ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I invite Members and Members to come, we will see the conclusion. Once again, I ask all those who are in offices or in the lobby of a large debate hall to come to the hall and allow the work of the national assembly to begin. We've got a 12th special session coming up. May I ask those of you who are in the hall to deposit cards so that we will have an approximate review of our presence. Dear colleagues, have a nice and pleasant day together! I begin the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that some colleagues and colleagues are detained for the entire session or for its beginning: colleague Lavrič, colleague Kontić, Fabjan, Malovr, colleague Spindler, colleague Švagan will be detained until 11 a.m., colleague Diaci, Kangler and colleague Merlo from 12.00 p.m. on and for the start of the meeting of colleague Cyril Pucko. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards and report, by pressing the "quorum" key, your presence. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! 52 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I have invited representatives of the government to continue the meeting and I welcome them. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Before that, I should like to inform you of some of the decisions we have taken today at the College and we have taken them unanimously. Today we will address those items of the agenda that are necessary for adoption due to the fact that certain laws are bound by the deadlines for the enforcement of these laws. We have decided to place only these laws on the agenda and all others will be dealt with at the scheduled extraordinary meeting in January and at the regular meeting in January. I think that an agreement has also been reached on the resolution, so that we will take this point of the agenda from among the first, i.e. as the first substantive point of the January session. We have also set a agenda, a draft agenda that we will now decide on in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to motions for withdrawal. I didn't get any withdrawals. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to enlargement proposals. I didn't get these either. Does anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we can move to a full vote on the draft agenda. Can we vote on this? I am putting the draft agenda, as we have drawn up at today's College meeting, to the vote. I ask you to vote on the agenda as a whole. We will have to vote on this one more time. We are once again deciding on the draft agenda in its entirety. Please make your statement.We are voting on the agenda in full. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 50 in favour, and 1 in favour of the proposal. I take it that the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. I should also like to inform you of the fact that the last item of the draft agenda, if the meeting was postponed after 2 p.m. this afternoon, could, also in accordance with the Government's position, be moved to the January session. However, if time is available, we will also do this 6th item of the agenda. However, the first five are, as it is said, from the point of view of the state of emergency and must be done today. So we have made all the necessary decisions regarding the expiry of the 12th extraordinary meeting. We can move on to one. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. We haven't received any third-reading amendments. This means that we can ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the amendments adopted in the second reading violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not broken.]] Thus, the National Assembly may move to a full vote on the law. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 58 colleagues and colleagues were present, 44 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. At this point in the agenda, the Group of the Social Democratic Party also submitted an additional decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a full overview of the budgetary resources earmarked for material and organisational conditions for recording the main proceedings." Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary group like to hear about this word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do they want other colleagues and colleagues? [[No, no, ……]] I then put this proposal to the vote for an additional decision. We're voting on him. We are voting on the proposal for an additional decision. There are 52 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 45 supported by the proposal, and 3 opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. That way we can close the 1st item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions, which constitute the Republic of Slovenia, for the period 1994-2003, hasty procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. Does the president want a word? He wants a word, and he's got one. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and fellow Members! Perhaps it would be a good idea for a proposal from the proposer to simply take up the bill, but I think he can still do that if he joins us. The draft law was discussed by the home labour body at its 14th regular meeting on 5.12.2001. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, with the content that this novelty and basic law contain, has strongly confronted the draft budgets for 2002 and 2003. So the matter that this law brings was known to the members and members of the committee before. Introduction to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on investments in public health establishments, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, for the period 1994-2003, was made by the Minister of Health, Dr Dušan Keber. In his presentation of the proposed amendments and additions, he said that the law currently in force provided for a means of providing funds for investments in public health institutions with estimated values, which could not be accurately foreseen at the time of adoption of the law. The general assessment of investments in the functioning of health care and the fact that the legal basis for the provision of investments in the construction of a new paediatric clinic in Ljubljana this year has also shown the need to amend and supplement the law or extend its validity. The members of the Committee also took note of the presentation of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which notes that the draft law has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that, in the accompanying letter, the proposer, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has also explained the proposal for the examination and adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. The secretariat does not have any comments of a constitutional nature to the draft law, but from a legal and legal point of view it proposes or notes that it would suggest further examination of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed law. In particular, the members of the Committee drew attention to the government's inefficiencies in investing in public health establishments on the one hand and to the simultaneous closure of certain existing institutions on the other hand and the inclusion of the necessary amount of funds to invest in the construction of a paediatric clinic in the proposal or in the material part of the bill. This also includes the incorporation into the relevant article of the total necessary amount of funds for investments in health institutions, including the extent of the resources envisaged for the construction of a paediatric clinic in Ljubljana. On the basis of the debate of the members of the Committee and the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, as well as the opinions of the Government, the Committee has drawn up and adopted the following amendments: Amendment to Article 2, by which we resolve the need to include in the sum of the necessary resources also the amount of funds for the paediatric clinic in Ljubljana, and the three amendments to Article 3. Just like the committee's report. The Committee also adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law should be adopted, together with the amendments tabled by the Committee and adopted by the Committee, by means of a rapid procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He wants to keep his word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They want to.]] Please, Dr. Tsukati, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Then does any of the other MPs want to do it? [[He does.]] Comrade Petty Officer, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Let's get my buddy Tucky first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! There is little to consider about the history of this funding in public health institutions. First of all, the fact that a decision was taken in 1994 on investments in those institutions whose owner is a country, in institutions where the price of a health service does not give rise to depreciation, investment investments, business expansion and the like. Well, the country was aware that it was obliged to help these hospitals from the budget. At that time, it was decided that between 1994 and 1999, according to the first five years, 15 billion would be devoted to these institutions. Well, then in 2000, we found that it was not possible to make this happen, but that in addition to these 16 billion there were new needs during this time; the departments were getting older and new investments were needed. And it was passed by law in 2000 to extend the period of these investments to 2003 and to raise the sum from 15 billion to 60 billion. Well, and you all know that we have already adopted a budget by 2003, which does not take these funds absolutely into account, although the law is still in force. So we have already broken the law when we adopt the budget at a very high level; this is how we do it ourselves. Well, and, of course, the government has been warned about this in committee discussions and so on, in adopting the budget, and of course hastened in that we will now resolve this by simply extending this deadline to a year as you have seen, extending this deadline again to a new five-year-old, which is now a new concept - we will not raise funds, because in these years there will certainly be new needs, but the same resources, not 60 billion, are so fair that only inflation in construction, 63 billion, will be taken into account. By doing so, we will halve the resources that are earmarked for these needs. I would just mention what is not mentioned in the explanation, of course, is a paediatric clinic, which is supposed to include 12 billion or should have been transferred to this quota 63 billion, which of course does not define the law clearly, and it seems that these 12 billion will explode. It is not only this, it is also an oncological institute, it is also a neurological clinic in Ljubljana - this is mentioned. The explanation also mentions some other things about hospitals, mentioned the gynecological and maternity department in New Town, surgery and gynecology in Slovenj Gradec, which I well know if the health inspection was consistent, would have closed this department long ago. However, there is no mention of the Gynecological-Paternity Department in Murski Sobota. I think Prekmurians know this very well, this problem. The problem of Jesenic and many others is not mentioned. The problems that are deepening at this time, I would say, are flat-rate, beyond the overlooked errors of these approaches or the basic problem of not actually taking into account the new needs that will arise at this time. We're back to the fact that it's better than nothing. But we know from this that the quality of the material conditions of hospitals is dropping dramatically. It's a good thing you're aware of that in the government coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Tsukati. Comrade Petty Officer. Mr Drobnic will present the position of the NSI Group, followed by a colleague of Simšič's on behalf of the United Social Democrats Group. First of all, Comrade Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely hailed colleagues and government officials! Investment or investment in the healthcare system is certainly necessary. Of course, in this law and in this proposal, it is not clear whether the Ministry or Government has carefully examined the existing situation in this healthcare infrastructure. Therefore, whether it analysed the capacity, the change in the health status of the population and, on this basis, it also prepared an appropriate comprehensive proposal. Somehow in Novi Slovenija we feel that this has not been sufficiently taken into account. If you look at this network, the infrastructure, the health system, you can find that, at times, the capacities are largely too small, and the technical equipment is inadequate, and on the other hand, the investments that are, unfortunately, also a result of local, narrow local interests, that these investments do not serve anything and are a bad passenger for anyone who takes power. This, of course, also causes additional costs in the healthcare system - it will certainly be agreed by the Minister and probably also knows what facilities we are aiming at. Therefore, it would be good for this to be done in such a way. Even the explanation of the law appears, with these previous changes, that there was always too little time. I don't know if it was always accepted just before Christmas and there was too little time for in-depth discussion or in-depth preparation. The next issue that has been raised in our parliamentary group is therefore the pooling of private and state capital or investment. It is not clear whether this will be a mixed property in one legal entity where both state and private will mix together, or whether there is such a thing in the plan. We show this in Novi Slovenije in certain doubts. Above all, from the experience so far that, after a certain period of time, state property became increasingly narrower, more and more liabilities, and more private and more problems. Nor is it clear what will happen to those missing funds. The country is providing about 43 billion money there. What about the others? Are there supposed to be donors and others? In short, it's a few questions that we've had in all of this. Otherwise, we are the principles of the need to provide funds, while being rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. I give my word to my colleague Simsich. It will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. It will be followed by a colleague of Brenčič on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. You have the floor, Mrs Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We are aware that it will probably take many more years than this amendment of the law to put an end to all investments in these institutions. However, we are pleased with at least one fact that all investments will finally be raised in the same law and that a special law will no longer be needed to build a new paediatric clinic in which the most difficult children from all Slovenia will be treated. For, as you know, this clinic fell out of that common law in 1994, and then a special law was passed in 1996. However, we want a special assurance and a clear opinion from the Minister of Health that the inclusion of a paediatric clinic in this law actually also means the transfer of funds and the possibility of definitive construction, as the Secretariat has also pointed out in its opinion that possible negligence could be fatal. As it is said, the Joint List Group will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Simsich. Mr Brenčič will present the views of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the state of infrastructure, both in the building and in the health care sector, does not reflect the situation that we can reflect both in the personal standard and in other standards that are present in our society. And that this investment in these institutions is essential. However, we are asked a serious question, which some members of the Committee have also somehow addressed to the Ministry, which is the holder of this law, in order to prepare a specification for today's debate or consideration, or to call it a dynamic plan to build these individual facilities or infrastructure interventions in the field of health after investments. If we want the level of resources to be at the annual level, then, of course, in these seven years, we should have in this specification or, I would say, a dynamic plan very clearly set aside, but how much funding will be spent in each financial year. If we have taken this seriously and we are going to make these investments, which we do not even know what they cover by 2008, then the annual level in the budget must be at least 10 billion. And we need to be aware of that. Otherwise, 2008 will be the year when it will be necessary to re-adopt the novelty to extend this investment cycle. We are pleased, however, that the pediatric clinic has also appeared in this law as a foundational law, and this creates a real condition that the clinic will also do so. Given that appropriate and necessary permits have been obtained, practical implementation is here. And it is right that the entire amount of this law also covers the area of the paediatric clinic. That is said, we are happy to support this law and we also wish it to be realistic from year to year, and until 2008 in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views? [[He does.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Youth Parties, please, Comrade Levič. Then will the Minister want a word? I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, because if there is no great interest in the general debate, we will go to the vote on the amendments. Please, Comrade Levich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The construction of a paediatric clinic has already been extensively mentioned in the National Assembly, particularly with regard to the funds that have been earmarked for its construction in recent years. In 1996, a law was passed on the construction of a pediatric clinic, and if construction were to take place under this law, children would have a hospital this year. Its construction has been blocked since the beginning, with plans, land repurchases, permits and the like. It is clear, however, that the construction of this urgently needed facility could be accelerated to the extent that the government would devote more resources to its construction if the funds already provided for under the law on the construction of the paediatric clinic were not realistic in view of the actual state of the project. That being the case, he clearly showed us the case this year. In this year's draft budget, only 300 million were earmarked for the construction of a paediatric clinic and the government argued that a greater amount for a paediatric clinic is not necessary because, given the project's progress, it will not be necessary. Only after the additional funding amendment had been discussed did the Minister of Finance ensure that the government would provide them, if necessary. And they were needed. This year, when the pediatric clinic was supposed to stop, the law on the construction of the pediatric clinic expired, and construction had just begun well. It is therefore certainly necessary to include the construction in the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The party of young Slovenia will therefore support the proposal of the law with all proposed amendments. However, we appeal to the government that, unlike the current non-execution of the law that we are enacting today, it is also actually implementing that we will finally get this much-needed hospital in 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. On behalf of the LSD Group of Members, Comrade Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I think that this bill absolutely supports the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Those who sit a little longer in these parliamentary dishes feel somehow indebted from the previous reference to implement this debt to Slovenian children, so that the pediatric clinic pulls this train forward as soon as possible. At the same time, we will also keep watch over the other side, says, over the construction of an oncological institute, which is also somewhere, we consider it too slow and it is not worth discussing at all, because, as we see from the newspaper, we are daily warned that the opportunities in this institution are becoming less human. And I think these are two objects that would absolutely give them priority. By making a commitment to make things happen as soon as possible, as planned, so as not to adopt additional proposals for financial corrections again in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Merlo. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In this debate, the following points should be highlighted. See, it is unlikely that there is a Member in this National Assembly who would have concerns about the necessity of investing in health care, especially in infrastructure, in the construction of hospitals, in the updating of departments. However, this intention quickly fades and falls when we adopt the budget. At that time, there is a stalwart reason and a stalwart excuse for priorities and similar matters. I would therefore point out at this point that it is rather cynical on the one hand to stress the need, the urgency, while at the same time in the other legislation, in particular in the law on the implementation of the budget, to make it clear that those laws will not be implemented financially that will not be covered by the budget. That is why this debate is part of the debate on the budget and not on the budget. I believe and believe that the most important thing is that the dynamics of the implementation of this law are in line with the dynamics of the views on this area of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance. This is a paradox and I would like to point out that it must also be taken into account in the debate on the law on budget implementation and budget and not here to knock on the chest, if, we are for it and even 63 billion is too little, too much and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u17	I think that we have exhausted the Group of Members and that we can give the floor to Members and Members. I didn't get an application for unlimited time. I'm limiting the word to five minutes. First, he wanted the word of his colleague Moga. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u18	President, thank you very much. We are also talking today, the last day of the meeting, about huge amounts. I would like to say that, in part, I agree with my colleague from social democracy that this is not a matter, although in one part the body is an interested committee for health, work, family and social policy, but mostly this is a matter for the Committee on Finance and the Finance Minister. I would like to say that we have adopted three budgets this year and that the Education Committee has adopted three conclusions in all three budgets, which it has also given to the National Assembly and approved by the National Assembly, and the Government is deaf to this ear. I don't think it's right in such a policy to go stone after stone and leave those things that we all carry in our hearts completely behind. I think it is impossible for my government to support the acquisition of weapons, to support the construction process, to come up with rocks now, to make people love with health care, that it is nothing to worry about, and I have enough of these ignorances to define what we asked her about, what with education, what with science, what with child protection, what with Slovenian culture. That my fellow Members of the United List must invest, despite the fact that the Committee and the National Assembly have made it clear and loudly that the government should pass a law that will also continue the school toll, a law that will continue the cultural toll that I will have to do it again, or a group of people closer to them on their knees to ask that we sign again a law that will lead to this. That's why, respectable colleagues! I have nothing against this law. But it is also necessary to look through the optics of other, interested public, who also needs cash assistance in order to have a government representative present before deciding on this law, or can the Minister himself explain whether the government will similarly introduce the procedure of the law, under the terms, that is, the Health Tolar Act, the School Tolar Act, the Scientific Tolar Act and the Cultural Tolar Act. If the government is prepared to do so and will also try, within the limits of the options given, to make these two laws possible in the budget, then I will vote in favour of this law. Otherwise, we will have to put this bloody path on our shoulders again and then convince the government that schools also need this money, either it's lunches or it's scholarships or it's to learn foreign languages, or it's to teach free textbooks that we're going to wear it on our shoulders, it seems to me that it's unjustifiable. And because of the transparent functioning of this country, it seems to me that Slovenian people deserve such a pediatric clinic for 12 billion as well as one decent national library. But then we're all quiet and I think this thing is being treated in a way that is now treated in stone, for the country is not transparent. Therefore, my procedural proposal that, when we come to a decision on this law, the government representative should come forward and once to this national assembly clearly and loudly reply, "we will introduce a law that will be enforceable in the field of education, a school tolar, and we will introduce a law on culture, that is to say a cultural tolar, which will also be feasible in future budgets".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u19	Comrade Moja, I didn't want to interrupt you, but you also touched on some other investments, not just public health institutions. I propose that, since this is not the point of the agenda, we do not extend the debate. Your procedural proposal isn't just about that. Of course, if you insist, the National Assembly will decide on it, but I would advise against it because it is not linked to this item on the agenda. The government, however, has an opportunity to respond to a call from counterpart Mojet. Comrade Petty Officer wanted a word, and I'm limiting yours to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. So I wanted to replicate my colleague Mohet. The introduction of a variety of tolars and the introduction of tolars on, I don't know, the health field, you know, it's an unserious debate. The government coalition is as it is set, and give, take responsibility, not only to speak to the people in your own way with your tolar. Because in this way you challenge the integrity of the budget and then, of course, we have to take decisions, as we did at yesterday's session, simply to determine how many of these possible and impossible claims and obligations of the State are. It's a matter of knowing for sure, which is why I don't welcome such ways. Of course, I agree with my colleague from the Social Democratic Party, Mr Visiak, on dealing with this issue. This debate should be accompanied by budgetary consideration. There may then be some idea of this tolar, but it must be integrated into the budget. This is important. I don't know how this thing will fit into the budget for the next five years. Maybe one part, the minimum, of investment in the first period, for which we have actually adopted the budget - that is, in 2002 and 2003 - has fallen or, because of the lack of funds, everything will be transferred in the last period. Then, in fact, it is a matter of relativising the implementation of this law. A term, a law that is being implemented and a law that is not being implemented have already appeared on the Health Committee. I can't discuss it this way. The law is for it to be implemented. To accept it, however, we may have reason to believe that the conditions are that it can be implemented, not that we write it to say, "Look how smart they are in this party and this party for citizens". Let's be decent and serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Comrade Mogue, you have a replica. Then the Minister asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u22	Comrade Petty Officer, tolar is a name for a money unit and tolars are not in the titles of these laws, but there are some notions under which people understand that these are laws for which the state will give money, not for laws, but for programs in these laws. These laws therefore implement government programmes. If we adopt legislation to provide money for certain programmes, we provide money legally, and since it has a legal basis, I ask myself about those programmes which are not legally defined to give money to them, whether they will then be enforceable or whether these programmes will be other types against programmes that have legal coverage for enforcement. Although the law itself, I agree with you, does not guarantee that these programs will receive this money, as we have seen for example in the cultural tolar - below 40% of what is legal. Therefore, if we adopt such a law, because of these dilemmas, I would like only to have a clear answer, whether the government will also have to travel, in the fields of education, science, culture, these things by law, or if not, in view of the equivalence of these areas, Members will have to travel in order to allow for a level playing field of money for programmes, such as these laws in the area of today's adoption, of health care, of defence and of roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of the Possonians. If, Minister, you agree, you would answer after the end of the debate of Members. Wouldn't you agree, Minister? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we can see on this list, there is no maternity leave in Murski Sobota. I'd like to ask the Minister what the fate of this maternity ward will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u25	Anyone else want a word from the Members? If not, I'd like to invite the Minister of Health to the floor. You have the floor as much as necessary for explanations that will be satisfactory. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u26	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I think that, in fact, the Minister of Health would like to have as much stimulating discussions as I have heard today. Nevertheless, of course, the truth of this law is that it tolerates most of the investments that have not been made so far for a further period. On behalf of the Government, I can argue that there are perspectives that give reality to these proposals in order to be implemented by 2008. However, I must point out that we have recently confirmed the budget, which in the next two years is somehow projected at 15 billion, and that up to 90 billion, which, with the adjustment to inflation and other macro-fiscal adjustments, means this law, means that in the years after 2003, we will have to double our investment investments around every year if we are to implement this law. This means, in front of us, there are also new budgetary discussions ahead of you, which, to mention this, will each time be able to redefine any different priorities that are written down at this time. In doing so, I would remind you that the right decisions are only those in the state budget for two years, while after 2003, despite the fact that the lists are well weighed, and because of the facts that some of you have already mentioned, because of the changed demographics, because of the changed technology, the different ways in which individual sciences develop in medicine can be changed, and there can also be a change in priorities. At the same time, I would particularly like to ask you, because in the future we will have in addition to budgetary discussions, where we will generally be less excited about investment, I will also ask you for support when the ministry at this or that level, local or national, proposes rationalisation in this area. There will also be painful interventions that will be necessary if health care is to work effectively and successfully under new conditions. So it is not only a matter of formal support for all the greater and greater investments, but an increasing and more rationality and, given the changed needs, also of diverting our attention into different projects than we might think today. Of course, the essence of the law is to combine the two laws that we have so far. To confirm the issue, of course, this means that the pediatric clinic with all its investment claims is an integral part of this law and this law provides it with funding, not only that, but a plan, the state budget puts it among the first priorities. So we believe that the paediatric clinic, in addition to the oncology institute, the first phase, will be the first major investment project, which we believe will be completed by 2006 at least. The answer for the gynaecological department or maternity gynaecological department of the Murska Sobota is simple. This maternity home is built, has its walls and will probably be completed by the end of next year if everything goes well. That's probably why you didn't find her on the list. So this is an investment that's going on. The following comment - the law only allows private capital to participate in the necessary money, either of natural or legal persons. It is clear, however, that some changes in the legal basis are likely to be needed if or when a number of questions are to be answered first. So that there will be a lot of substantive debate, in what way, and I will say again if this capital ever occurs, especially in hospitals. This time is our view that we will allow this, of course, through all the security measures necessary to keep hospitals in the public system and to serve the public good. I will send some other proposals to the finance minister who is responsible for this, although we probably all know that the finance minister and the government know exactly that there are needs and desires in a number of areas and that it is ultimately necessary to set priorities for the existing social product. How the government and how Parliament decide on the priorities in each area, of course, the voters confirm in each election. That's my only comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My colleague Mogo. Before I give you my word, Comrade Moja, may I invite Members and Members who are not in the Chamber to join us, because it shows that we will move slowly to a decision. Comrade Mogo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much. As a member of this National Assembly, it is likely that all of you, colleagues and colleagues, must know what will happen next. And if anyone asks me whether our government will also introduce a law in the coming year that will allow the implementation of the programmes that have been started but not completed, with a school toll or with a cultural toll, I need to know the answer to this question. And since we have been praying for a year and a half - as colleagues can say, all those who are from this area - we pray and ask the government to answer this, I think that is the least that we ask. To tell us yes or no. Then I will also know how I will make my decision in this case, or whether I will be able, as a member of Parliament, to return to this thorny path, and I will ask all my colleagues and colleagues or we will ask us to vote for our culture for some more money and for our school for our science some money. I think that's perfectly justified. I think you, Dr. Keber, as Minister of Deluxe, have succeeded in coming with these things and taking care of your area. I am just a little less impressed with those who have failed in their efforts to achieve what this National Assembly has demanded of them. That is why, President, I would ask once again, because the day is long, it is just a working day for people from the government to come here and answer this question, and then I will press this button with a light heart and then I will vote for this law, Dr. Keber, so there will be no mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u29	Comrade Moge, your question to the government is legitimate, and it is also possible to ask it by means of an initiative or a question written or oral. I would just like to remind you that if we decide today to break the agenda so that the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister who has the right, i.e. the general right to represent the government, can come forward with such a precedent, because whoever can then request that the Minister for Area Y also come to the agenda. And if the National Assembly adopts your procedural proposal today by a majority, it would be expected that it will do so every time such a proposal is made. I would therefore suggest, in accordance with Rule 267 of the Rules of Procedure, that I should not put such a proposal to the vote, as if it had been adopted, a precedent which could have a serious impact on decision-making in the national assembly. If Dr. Keber, as a member of the government on behalf of the government, has the power to provide any further information in this regard, he is invited to give it. On the other hand, I think that your question is legitimate and can also be asked by the government in a different way and informed Members of its response. Any other colleagues and colleagues want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u30	I'll say, this note of yours only holds in part. The government's explanation that the Minister who is currently representing the government or the government on duty, who is concerned that ministers and other officials are present and that they allow, I will say, the current decision-making of the National Assembly. From this point of view, it would not be the first time that so-called Tolars connect with each other and they block or open decisions on one another. You will recall from past practice that the so-called school toll was, in fact, adopted by the State Assembly in parallel with the defence toll, and that the sum of that money that the government said would be added to the budgets for the next few years was the sum that enabled the programmes of both tolars. Then, of course, both programmes were extended for several years. After so many years, it turns out that neither one nor the other - I am talking about those programmes that are not fully implemented. This debate that we are opening today is important in so much because it means accepting this tolar. This must be a clear message to the government as well as a decision for all the other Tolars who will have support in the National Assembly. This is a message that Mr Moge cannot express explicitly. But I assure you from experience and, of course, from how the priorities in one part of the National Assembly are determined that support for this tolar, which is necessary for me, also means support for tolars in the remaining areas, which are also in some way nourished and where the future of this society, which is connected, as we also listen to in the memoranda, with knowledge, education and culture. Otherwise, there's no way. From this point of view, I'll say, it's good if it clears up at this point in time and works calmly forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u32	The President, to avoid procedural complications and because the water is not burning, would suggest that by the time I try to obtain information from the government myself, which will ensure that I vote with a light heart for this, because I cannot now vote because I do not know what policy will be pursued in this area, I would also suggest something from my colleague, because it is not necessary for this law to be adopted today to move the decision on this law to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u33	My friend Brenčič, chairman of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I fully understand the efforts of some Members, but I would say, by 31.12., the law on the paediatric clinic shuts down. Investments are kind of in the process. It's in the works. There is no legal basis for releasing money from the state budget into this investment after that day. That's why I would only appeal to us to adopt this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u35	Here, my colleague Mojet would just like to point out the second paragraph of Article 73. For such a proposal, at least 10 Members should be warmed up. Otherwise, a parliamentary group, chairman, proposer or government. Who else wants a word? She's a colleague of Simsich's. Then a colleague of the school, a colleague of the Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In fact, I would say that I almost fully agree with the thinking of my colleague Školč. At the same time, however, my colleague Mojet would ask him to give his vote for this marriage today. For two reasons. A colleague of Brenčič mentioned one, for at the end of the month, on 31.12., the law on the paediatric clinic shuts down. And it would not be wise to create a legal void in this area that could be fatal. The second reason that is difficult is in the basic development programmes, in the so-called Defence Tolar adopted by this National Assembly before the budget, and I myself understood the government's decision to move forward with all the Tolars at that time. If we have substantially increased the amount in the defence toll, if there is a health toll law in the procedure, it is logical that this is the intention of the government to be expected to move forward. So please, if we can decide on this law today, and I ask my colleagues to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u37	Comrade Skull, would you like a word? Behind you, comrade Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u38	I just wanted to clarify that, of course, Mr Brenčič is not right in the part where he claims that it is not possible to draw on funds for a paediatric clinic. The funds are provided in the budget for the next two years and the drawback of these funds is, in fact, linked to less than these individual tolls, in particular to the law on the implementation of the budget. It will also apply to all others From this point of view, there will be no difficulty in drawing on funds. Because if we were to rely on this dictatorship of law, then the pediatric clinic would have stopped today if it were available to materialize through the letter of the law. Not to mention, of course, the National and University Library, which would have needed repairs at this time, but it is not significantly further from the construction pit being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u39	I will give the floor in the following order: Comrade Tsukjat, the Minister has also asked for the floor, but I propose to the Minister to take the floor for my colleague Drobnik's performance. So, first of all, my colleague Tsukati, behind him is my colleague, Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. The current law, which was still in force by the end of the year, demanded an investment of 60 billion, or for all Slovenian hospitals, and the state failed to do so, could not or could not do so. Now, after this proposal, this investment stretches for the next five years - this is said to be split according to the needs of the infrastructure or material conditions of the health service. It is likely that these new requirements will not be able to be met by the budget in the next five years. At least that's how they show experience. I fear that, of course, the needs will remain or increase, new needs and the material base of hospitals occur each year, and the material basis of health care will deteriorate dramatically. Mr Minister, have you ever thought about including investment costs in the cost of health care; for if the hospital had in the current price of health care, not only wages and other material - current material costs - as it now has, but also investments, investment costs, then it could rent credits and in the 10, 15 years pay its investment without this painful negotiation with the budget, where of course we always lose Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, behind him is the minister. Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor to the entire national council, not just to Comrade Mohet. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I give up the replica and the debate because I think this will only contribute to a greater confusion. Things aren't ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to provide explanations, perhaps also of a kind, to resolve the questions of colleague Mojet? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u44	First of all, let me tell you that this time I am also the so-called duty-holder of the government, which is also supposed to answer more complicated questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u45	Well, that solves the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u46	You will probably agree, however, that the issues relating to investment in science, education, culture are something that, perhaps, I underestimate my colleague, the finance minister, even this very moment without the government's clear support, could not predict what will happen next year. So allow me to express an opinion. Personally, I am also an integral part of education and science, if somehow I cannot be directly involved in culture, except as a customer, that I simply say that this requires a debate, which even if you postpone this law, will not end so quickly that this law will not be postponed for a long time. The termination of this law - which is why I would suggest to the President that the legal service might explain what it means - in my opinion, I think it means launching the whole process from the beginning; which means, of course, a very bad signal to all those customers, the citizens you wanted to please with your recent events about half an hour ago. I can commit myself or gladly commit myself to conveying to the government a very clear, sharp debate in the direction of what we will do in the field of investment in education, culture, science and that the government will come with clear answers to this Parliament as soon as it can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. He also asked for the floor of his colleague Partljič. You have the floor, Comrade Partich. Do you have a problem with the microphone? Is anyone involved? No, no, no. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u48	I'm having more trouble with my formulation. Not only do I understand and support, in my own way, the discussion of Mr Rudi Mojet and my neighbour, Jožef Školč, but it is true that we Members, too, look in the long term, but not serious Members, who are adopting the laws on tolars here, but one who has been exceptional because of the exceptional needs of the state, first of all defence, but if it is defence, is now an opportunity for education, and there is an opportunity for culture. I must also say that, however we look at it, they have brought their results, both of them. The law was not enforced in any way as we imagined: not in the same dynamics, not in anything, not in all details. But he was running, and I think it's possible in the area of defence, and especially in the field of education, to show what results. However, I am speaking for this reason, perhaps my colleague and friend Moja will object to me because I do not see any real hack from the fact that a finance minister would appear here and say that he will comply with these laws adopted by Parliament in accordance with real possibilities or something like that. I don't think we could get such a relevant answer that would please us. I think that I would agree with the Minister that the Minister of Finance may not be able to say that, nor would the Prime Minister. [[...]] Before that, I would have thought that we would have received a demagogic answer that would have reassured us to adopt this law. Because I think it's some kind of reality. For example, because I could say that Rudy Mogue is a cultural fighter, even in practice, even in this national assembly and I give him all the credit, last time we had a conversation, right on the Education and Culture Committee, the last time in the ministry's report, where the debt was due - a number of questions related exactly to the fulfilment of the cultural tolar. [[...]] And the secretary answered there. Even so, if they were not prepared everywhere in the field, I could not say in a higher number that I was provided with these answers, but I do not think that on behalf of the Government we could now get another reply, which we - say - for the cultural field 14 days ago from the Ministry and we were not satisfied. [[...]] On the other hand, I would be sorry if, after a year of obsorium or two years later, we realized that we had missed something right back with this hospital, as was the case today, even between the lines. That is why, even so - as it is said - I sometimes feel a bit of a pattern, because I can see that it's real, that we can't do it, and we're going into something else. I will not support this to stop the further procedure around the law that we now have on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u49	Okay. Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u50	I think we need to find a way out. No one opposes this law that we are considering. But the equation that the School said is x+x=z and if it's specified and you give x so much, then y is also defined. It means that someone with regard to the realization of all these tolars should answer here. And once again with my colleague Brenčič, I agree that this is not a matter for the Ministry of Health, but it is a matter of the Ministry of Finance. And the government should, in this sense, answer and say. And I should also say this, because, after all, we are also Members of the people, that if something is decided in the committee, if the National Assembly decides to answer these questions. Because he didn't respond, my revolt is just like it was in this case. I would ask, if possible, for a few more consultations on these procedural complications, we would try - so the biggest thing the government would answer, would be to block the law and put it to a future meeting. The worst. But when Danica says, in fact, we do this bear service to those who need it or who have a vision of health care ahead. If we give up a little bit, the National Assembly could once again take a decision at the end, which is usually not being implemented; but a conclusion in this sense, at the time of this consideration, that the government would respond to this dilemma at the first next meeting, which we are now setting out when this law is adopted. And if the government doesn't answer, then we'll know. It is only, however, that this thing may prejudge that they will say, "Yes, because you, as a national assembly, have even made an amendment, you have increased the funds. Why are you asking me now about something that we should find out if there is no more money base?" And in this he's driven all this stuff around which we're fighting. If it is possible to obtain a decision a few minutes before making a decision and if it is still possible to make a decision at that time that the National Assembly would adopt, then it would withdraw from these intentions and try to resolve the problem in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. Now we have two options. One, because there are few articles in this law to take advantage of this time, which will be relatively short, when you accept this decision. Or to break point two, we move to point three and, after the end of one of the following points, we return to point two with a proposal for your additional decision. My colleague Mogo, did I get it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u52	It would be good for the president if you were so kind as to break this point so we can do all these things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u53	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u54	for decision-making and then back to this point later. [[...]] These points are short. I'd ask if we could stop, we'll prepare these things in writing and then we'll decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u55	Okay, can we also agree to make a decision on the law, and then, before the end of this point, you take the time to make a decision? My friend Moja? Yes, you can. We can discuss the law. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u56	Before we decide on the law, we'll take a 15-minute break and we'll take care of it as necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u57	Then I suggest we close this chapter by voting on the law and then the LDS Group will take a 15-minute recess. Okay. We are in a general debate. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude this general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, to a debate and to a decision on individual articles and amendments tabled. We have two amendments. We'll go from article to article. We have two amendments, the amendment of the committee to Articles 2 and 3. I am now putting Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I shall put Article 1 to the vote. Please vote. We are voting on Article 1. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We are in the middle of a vote on Article 1. 58 Members and Members. 52 voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. We have an amendment to Article 2. The committee has drafted an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will vote first on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. 62 The messengers and the messengers are present: 56 for, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting, please. 58 colleagues and colleagues present; 52 for, no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We have an amendment to Article 3. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 3. Please vote. We are in the middle of a vote on the amendment to Article 3. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 48 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We can now vote on the text of Article 3 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 48 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] We have paragraphs 4 and 5. We will first vote on the text of Article 4. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the text of Article 4. 56 colleagues and colleagues were present and voted in favour of the text of Article 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are now voting, and we are still discussing Article 5 if there is any interest in this. Anybody want a word on Article 5? [[He doesn't want to.]] I shall put the text of Article 5 to the vote. The text of Article 5 was spoken of by 52 Members, 49 of whom were in favour, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that this text has also been adopted. That's why we can move on to a decision on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and 49 Members present in the Chamber, they were in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. Would qualified candidates like to table an amendment? [[They don't want to.]] We're moving to coordination. Is the text consistent? [[Yes, it ……]] Therefore, we can move on to a full decision on the law. My friend Anderlič, do you want a 15-minute recess before you decide? I'm taking a 15-minute recess, and we're going to continue for five minutes in half-twelve - until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u58	Respectable, Your Honor. Let's get back to work. We're moving on to a decision. Excuse me, Mr. Mogue, can you pull my card out of the slot? [[...]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. First, of course, we will find out the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 54 of us present. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. I ask the restorators whether they want to explain their decision. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u59	The LDS Group will vote in favour of the law without reservation, because we believe, of course, that there is a need to continue to regulate certain investments in health care. We are also confident and will do everything that the coalition will prepare both laws before the Slovenian cultural holiday in January, both the Cultural Tolar Act and the School Tolar Act, thus contributing as much as possible to the development of education, science and culture in Slovenia. So all the conditions for voting on this law are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you are, Mr. Bevk, an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this law because it will make some unnecessary investments in health care. However, in the United List, as you know, we have introduced the Cultural Tolar Act into the procedure, and the three of us are prepared to withdraw the law if the government does what the leader of the largest coalition party has previously said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Since I no longer see anyone wanting to explain their voice, we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the representative of the Secretariat very much. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE JAMAGE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOME AIR CARRIER FOR THE CONSEQUENCE OF THE WAR ON TERRORISM, AND THE CONDITIONS OF THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CONTRACTING AIR CARRIERS, A FAST PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? You don't want to. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Gerencher, chairman of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At its 5th extraordinary meeting yesterday, the Committee considered that law and adopted a decision following the applicant's interpretation to support the rapid procedure and to propose to the National Assembly that it do so at today's meeting. In the light of the Secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters, the Committee has also adopted amendments which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly, namely Article 1, by deleting the second paragraph of this Article, since this is already mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Article. A single text is also added in Article 2; it is more a drafting matter, and a new Article 2a is added, which defines the problem in a more detailed way. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a law on rapid procedure and also to support the amendments proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, namely to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. There is no review of the amendments, but we have three articles in the basic text. Article 1 and Article 2a are amended and the amendment to Article 2a is set out in the report, saying that the report of the Committee contains three amendments: Article 1 to Article 2a and Article 2a. I shall put Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to this article. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 2.a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 2a have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 3 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 2a were adopted by law in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since no, I am asking the representative of the Secretariat, pursuant to Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, whether the amendments adopted undermine mutual compliance. It's not. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry and the representatives of the Secretariat very much. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Kacin, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In its opinion of 13 December 2001, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs pointed out that the material contains two versions of the Additional Protocol in both contractual languages, which are already clearly different in the form of signatories to the Additional Protocol. In doing so, the version submitted in such a way as to form an integral part of Article 2 of the Law on Ratification shall, at the end of the signatures of the signatories to the Additional Protocol, contain only an indication of their names and the symbolic markings by which it is conventionally declared that the signatory has signed the document. In addition, the second version of the Additional Protocol, which is contained in the material to explain the proposed law as a supplement, also has its own-time signatures of the signatories, so that, on this basis and in addition from other technical details, it can be found that this second version concerns the photocopy of the originals of the Additional Protocol. I am reading the dictatorship transmitted by the Secretariat for Law and Law Affairs of the National Assembly on the multi-month complication that has taken place with regard to the electronic operation of our government. The government sent us all the ratifications electronically and we demanded the originals. It took three months. The government has now understood that international agreements are not concluded by electronic mail, but that this is being concluded in a visible place, in the presence of the media, and from now on it is also transmitting to us the originals. I said this because in the future we would no longer have to remind the government of this inconsistencies, which means that we will be much more effective in ratifications in the future. On 19 December 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly a new proposal for that law replacing the proposal for a law which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2001. At its 2nd meeting, held on 20 December 2001, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a law on the ratification of an additional protocol regulating the trade aspects of the European Association Agreement - I apologize for reading the wrong text. I'm sorry, but the original diction is real. Therefore, at the 2nd meeting of the 40th meeting, held on 20 December, the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina was considered. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the additional opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which had no comments on the proposal for a law. The Committee agreed with that bill and therefore proposed that the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider the proposal at its meeting and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Jelko Kacin will present the opinion on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u67	Our Group of Members, of course, supports the law on the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Slovenia has been the first foreign investor in Bosnia and Herzegovina for some time. The same goes for Yugoslavia, both for Serbia and Montenegro. We therefore welcome the new framework of interstate trade between countries, which will certainly enable trade flows to be strengthened and thus enable the Republic of Slovenia to revive after the war-torn economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would be pleased if we could make such rapid progress in the development of trade with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and we expect to be surprised by a similar agreement in the future in the case of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As it is said, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is pleased to support the law on the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and welcomes its implementation in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to present the opinion of the Group anymore, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written applications and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft law before the initiation of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal will not be adopted if it is opposed by at least a third of the Members present. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL PROTOCOL RATIFICATION OF THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL RATING THE TREATY OF THE EUROPEAN AGREEMENT ON THE ASSOCIATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON ONE PARTNER AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THEIR MEMBER STATES WORKING IN THE FIELD OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ON THE OTHER PARTNERSHIP, TAKING ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESULTS OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES ON THE CONTRACTING PARTICUTION OF SPECIRITIES FOR A PARTNERSHIP, ON RECOGNITION, PROTECTION AND SUPERVISION OF RECORDING THE NAMES OF THE The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So sometimes, when ratifying international treaties and various protocols, we accept very quickly and quite automatically. And sometimes it turns out that we miss out on something like this. I have looked closely at this agreement or protocol and, of course, I have no comments on it if I receive an appropriate explanation for this today. This is a very sensitive area of recognition of geographical indications, designations of wines as well as other alcoholic beverages and aromatised beverages. It is two sets: one refers to wine and one to the other spectrum of drinks. The two agreements referred to in Article 5 state that the Parties shall mutually recognise designations under specific instruments or by special lists which form an integral part of these agreements. However, Articles 13 and 14 further set up specific working groups which have the task of harmonising these lists, which we recognise each other in the European Union, according to traditional or geographical names. Nowhere is it written that this is already happening or: how and whether Slovenia will enforce some of the wines that we have been aware of, while trying to enforce them, such as a pitcher, such as a cricket or, for example, a drunk alcoholic drinker. Since the protocol or the two agreements are transferring this to the working group, we today do not really know what we are accepting and what we are recognizing each other. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's not. I would like to explain before we vote on this: whether this area remains completely open, whether this agreement is just a certain regime, how we will recognise it, or whether anything is already done in what is of great importance to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Istok Jarc, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Respectable. The Member of Parliament is essentially right about what he said. The mutual protection of the names of wines, alcoholic beverages under this Agreement is regulated by the way that both parties recognise the agreement establishing a world trade organisation and a relevant trips agreement, as well as domestic legislation, as well as Slovenian legislation relating to the field of wine. You are correct that the Agreement should also be accompanied by an annex to those lists, but these Annexes will be subsequently coordinated, in particular by the European Community. There has not been a problem on our side, but the European Community has not yet agreed on these annexes internally and will therefore be sent back to us for verification. As for the concern you have expressed about the terrain, the drill and so on, I can assure you that during the negotiations we have presented these problems and what a negative response has not been detected. This is how I expect the annexes to this matter to be listed. However, the government may also undertake to send these annexes to you for information when they are delivered from both sides and when they are adopted in this working group mentioned by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. That's exactly how I understood the text of the documents we have. Nevertheless, I am afraid that something that has not yet been done and that we are at the same time confirming this document may not be recognised by the other party. Now, is there any chance that if this working group, which will be established in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 of this Agreement or both of these agreements, does not harmonise that then there will be some dialogue between the signatories, where we will exercise our interests - then it is okay. However, if we are leaving the door too open by adopting the law on the approval of this additional protocol, which legitimizes both agreements, then of course there may be a great danger. However, as I say, Members are not aware of the way in which the negotiations can be negotiated, what such negotiating groups can also agree on. At the very least, I would like to be informed about the complications if they were created, especially in those few segments where Slovenia does not have many brands that would be typical of Slovenia - Renski Riesling is renaissing everywhere and so on and so on and so on, terrace, cricket, as well as pitchfork possible, but something, is typical only of Slovenia, and that is what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Jarz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. So, Slovenia is an equal party here in this agreement. Mechanisms are available, for the first time, for the adoption of these Annexes, of course, as well as for coordination and for possible disputes. This way I can assure you that no annexes will be adopted without the consent of the Slovenian parties, and in this sense there is no fear that our interests, as defined in the law, will be established. However, if there are any problems, the agreement will have to be revised or new negotiations initiated in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote! 42 present. I think there's more of us in the hall. I just want a little more attention. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision I have presented. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government, and also thank the representative of the secretariat very much. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence of the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain questions in connection with the construction of infrastructure and other objects at border crossing points, rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The first hearing was held at the 11th session. We are therefore moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote! There are 41 of us present. I really think there's more of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. We have 12 pages of amendments ahead of us, so please, if we're paying attention. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote! There are 45 of us present. I'm afraid we're inconclusive, so I'm adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes and we'll resume at 12.20.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, since we will be voting on the proposal for a decision for a short time, I ask you very much for peace in the hall and everyone who is nearby, please join us. This is the third time we have voted on a proposal for a decision that I have presented before the end. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14.12.2001. We also have an amendment on the table to Article 10, which is proposed by Mr Franz Sušnik and is not under review. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 4 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the two amendments to this Article; under number 1 there is an amendment to the amendment of the committee whose proposer is the internal policy committee and under number 2 is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment to amendment number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to the title of the chapter of which the Committee is proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to the title of the chapter has been adopted and the title has been amended. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 6 and the amendment to amendment number 1 and amendment number 2. They're both candidates for the boards. Anybody want to talk? Excuse me! The amendment of the amendment to the amendment of the Committee under number 1 shall be proposed by Dušan Vukko. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I would like once again to have a clear answer to the dilemma that arises with the possible application of the first or second amendment. It clearly and loudly states that, by adopting the border crossing plan, the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term municipal act in the work and for the area defined by the border crossing plan are amended and supplemented by the procedure laid down by this law. In connection with Article 10, which states that only the opinion of the municipality is necessary for the implementation of the site plan, I ask and reopen the dilemma whether it is not in violation of the laws and constitution that we come so indirectly through the back door to the amended planning acts, the spatial planning acts of the municipality, only with the opinion of the municipality. I think that this is a key issue that we debated for too long last night, that the intention of this amendment is clear for the purpose of trying to do so. Otherwise, as a motion for an amendment to Article 10, which relates substantively to this provision, I have tried or am trying to correct this by replacing the opinion by consensus. However, once again, I believe that it is unacceptable to legalise, through a local plan, the change in the spatial plans of the municipalities without the need for the consent of the local community. I mean, I am asking the bill-maker, our secretariat, once again for a statement, if this is in accordance with existing legislation, and not least with the irresistible constitutional rights of the local community regarding the competence to plan the use of space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Sanja Travnšek, Deputy Secretary of State, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u80	The existing arrangements, in particular Article 45 of the Settlements Regulation Act, are important as regards the adoption of local plans for state infrastructure facilities. And this sets out one very long procedure in which, when it comes to changes in the state and municipal plans when a local plan for State infrastructure is adopted, a change in the national and municipal plans or national plans, a decision is taken by the national assembly and then applies to that zonal plan. This procedure does not provide for the consent of the municipality, but the municipality is involved in the process of public disclosure, in preparing the act itself, and then also takes a position and sends it within a certain period of 30 days, to the lawmaker, who is then forwarded to the national assembly or to the government. This law, essentially or the amendment proposed under this Article of the Act, amended the first article to this effect that if the location plan adopted is in accordance with the national plan, then this location plan shall apply. However, if it is not in accordance with the State plan, which means that it would intervene in this case within the competence of the national assembly and then this provision does not apply and is subject to the procedure envisaged for the adoption of the State plan in Article 45. This is how we assess that the article is properly corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u82	With regard to this amendment, I would only draw attention to something that could have occurred on the Committee: if the Council of State considers that my proposal for an amendment is correct, it does not mean that the amendment under order number 2 is irrelevant, since I replace only the second paragraph, whereas the first paragraph and the third paragraph need to be confirmed. So there wouldn't be any misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u84	With regard to the amendment itself, I would say that, given the issue raised by my colleague Sušnik, it is my opinion - and of course the opinion of the secretariat on the Internal Policy Committee - was in line with the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment to the Committee's amendment under one. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. One warning from the amendment motioner to the amendment of the Committee, which we voted under order number one, is now on the amendment, taking into account the fact that the amendment to the amendment has changed the text of the amendment under order number two until the last paragraph, which says: 'The third paragraph is deleted'. I therefore apologize to the vote of the amendment; it remains in the amendment, which is under order number two, first paragraph and last paragraph, we have amended the text of the second paragraph by adopting the amendment to the amendment. [[...]] This is how we vote on the amendment under two, namely the first and last paragraph of this amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 6. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment under two, as presented, first and last paragraphs, has been adopted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 7 and the amendment to this Article. Allow only this warning. In addition to Articles 8, 9, 10 and 16, the amendment of the editorial nature is introduced, after which the word "DLN" is replaced by the word "location plan for the border crossing". Although this amendment is contained in the revision of the amendment on page 12 of the review as an amendment to all articles. I propose that we decide on it in the context of Article 7 as the first article to which it relates, and thus adopt an appropriate amendment also in the other articles mentioned below, which we will then consider later and will therefore take this amendment into account in their text, this is a proposal from the Secretariat. Thank you very much. That's what we say. We'll decide. [[...]] Because no one wants to debate, just once again, under 1 we will therefore decide on the amendment of the committee that we have before us. Under order number 2 to 7 of Article 7 on the amendment of the Committee, which is on page 12 of the amendments. We therefore decide first on the amendment to Article 7(1). Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under order number 2, we also decide on the amendment, which is in the review as an amendment to the whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 7 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 8 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 9 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and the two amendments to this Article; under number 1, the amendment of the committee under review will be decided under order number 2 by the amendment proposed by Mr Frans Sušnik and is not in the review. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to explain that, on the Internal Policy Committee that addressed this bill's proposal, we have consolidated that 8 days for public disclosure is too short and I fully support or have reached a very high consensus on the amendment, which will extend this period from 8 days to 15 days. My amendment, however, aims at correcting what we have legislated with the amendment to Article 6, when we have definitely excluded the municipality or the local community from the decision-making process, planning the use of space, in this case for the purpose of building a border crossing. See, the mandatory components of the Republic Plan are the mandatory component of the spatial plans of the municipalities and municipalities with a decree of legal intervention into the space, taking into account this mandatory component. With the amendment, which is now under consideration by law, this process of decision-making and the legalization of interventions into space is excluded. We have made it clear here that only after the government has adopted a border crossing plan that is in line with the State Spatial Plan will we automatically change the spatial plan, nor will we demand or give the municipality the possibility that, as in all cases so far, it will decide or include it in its amendment to the spatial plan. I therefore believe that in the first indent the last sentence should be amended to read: "On the draft national location plan," we now know that this is a border crossing plan, "to obtain the opinion of the municipalities." Any fear that this would impede the adoption of the border crossing site plan or that this would in any way preclude the construction of border crossings and thus the establishment of the Schengen border is, in my deep belief, superfluous, mainly due to the references in the fourth indent of the same Article 10. Firstly, these statements guarantee that the municipality must respond with its consent within 8 days if it does not respond, it is considered that the consent is "yes". That's what it says. Any delay we've avoided. Most importantly, I think that what is written in the last two sentences is that in the event of a refusal of consent or a rejection of an opinion, the specific provisions of the rules in force and other legal acts or official instruments should be specified and that the actual situation on which such a decision is based should be demonstrated, otherwise it should not be taken into account. In fact, this does not mean that unwarranted disapproval, which does not have a basis in law, does not count. More importantly, I think it is important that the co-operator should not give up its consent for abandonment of a non-legislative condition. We also make it clear that local communities or congregations are not allowed to make up such consents or as conditions for the issue of consent to make up something that is not defined by law. I already said yesterday that, otherwise, that we will remain in Article 10 in the opinion, the municipality, as that fundamental constitutional entity that was given the right to plan the use of space, will be completely discredited, destroyed, compared to some - should not object to this comparison - by a cable network operator, or by a telephone network, or by a gas, heating network. When this law applies to such an intervention, it will require only the consent of the congregation, or only the opinion of the congregation, to which everyone else will have to give consent, including for such minor matters. Look. I am sure that, in the event that we remain here, we will build up too many problems and that such a provision does not lead to what we all want, and this is the early establishment of the Schengen border. Therefore, I ask you to think carefully and to vote in favour of the amendment I have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Travnšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u88	Perhaps once again, what is the role of the congregation in systemic laws in the field of space regulation, on the basis of the 84th and the 45th amendments in 1993 and 1997, and this 10th article, which gives the municipality the opportunity to participate in the whole process, both from public divisiveness to public treatment and, of course, to take a stand at the end. It is true that if I now return to the spatial planning acts that the municipality is obliged under the basic law to amend [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u89	Your Honor, I ask so much peace in the Chamber that the Undersecretary of State can explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u90	However, the municipality does not have the right to decide on the purpose of the use of that part of the space, which is otherwise determined by the national plan than would otherwise have been defined by the municipality. Which means that her autonomy in that particular area is not violated because she has no right to make any decisions in that area, but the plan has to adapt to the state plan, meaning that she should accept the amendments, otherwise that part of her plan must not be implemented. As far as the consentors referred to in Article 10(4) are concerned, these provisions are intended for those co-legislators who are designated by specific laws as such and have in their laws and regulations which are very specific and set out the different values and conditions that they may prescribe for the detection of certain interventions into the premises. The municipality does not have such explicit provisions in special laws. The only provisions relating to the municipality are not specific, however, in the Law on Local Self-Government, where Articles 21, 22 and 29 say that it has the right to take care of the development of its place, the development of its infrastructure, has the right to adopt spatial plans, but, of course, in a part where the State does not decide otherwise and relate to State infrastructure. Thus, in our view, to place the congregation as a co-legislator in this article - without delay, it would certainly not delay the procedure, but would prevent adoption, because consensus does not mean that you cannot accept it without consent. And the only law the congregation refers to in this regard is the very general provisions of the law on local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First of all, the amendment under 1 in the amendment review is the amendment of the committee. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of Ambassador Franz Sušnik to Article 10. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 25 to 22. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We decide on Article 10 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes to 12. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 11 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 7. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 12 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 14 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by Dušan Vukko and under 2 is the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 7. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 1 has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 16 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 21 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 22 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 43 present. I find that, at the first vote on the article, we are completely inconclusive. For the second time, we are voting on Article 22 as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 24 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. Again, the first vote failed. I'm asking for your attention. There's only a few amendments ahead. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 25 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 26 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Committee to Article 30 and on the whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We have voted on all the amendments to the articles, so we are moving on to the debate on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the title of the law of which the committee is proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move to a vote on the amendment to the title of the law. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted and the title of the law has been amended. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments adopted and proposed have been adopted, and therefore all the amendments and both addresses are open, so to speak, the title of the chapter and the title of the law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. A representative of the government wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u92	Dear Members and Members. Since you have, with the amendment to Article 10, passed the veto of the municipalities on the location plan of the state infrastructure, please, on behalf of the Government, for a short interruption, so that you can draft an amendment to Article 10 of the Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u93	How long, Mrs. Travnšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u94	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u95	20 minutes, all right. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? As no, on the proposal of a qualified proposer to table an amendment within 15 minutes, I am adjourning the meeting for 15 minutes and continuing at 13.20.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u96	Your Honor! Since we're going to continue the session, I'd like to ask your attention, because we're going to be able to determine the presence. We're picking up the presence! 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent an amendment to Article 10 in the following text: "In the first paragraph of Article 10, the word 'consent' shall be replaced by 'conclusion'." By way of explanation: ‘if the adoption of the local border crossing plan would require the consent of the local community, this would in certain cases constitute a veto of the local community in the adoption of the implementing act and thus make it impossible to implement the border crossing necessary for the establishment of the Schengen border, which is the primary interest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia’. I'm opening a debate on the amendment of the government. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will not hold back or take this right to assess this opinion. The least I can say is that he doesn't hold on to any veto. Once again, I would like to point out that the fourth indent of the same article should be carefully read, which clearly states that it treats or eliminates the time component. That is to say, if the local community does not give consent within the prescribed time limit, it shall be deemed to have been given consent. Most importantly, however, what I have already said is that consent must be in accordance with existing legislation and regulations and must not require a co-legislator to do something that is not in the applicable rules and laws. A blood code in this area is a bill to adopt a republican plan, which is a mandatory starting point for all local communities, even in the case of an agreement on such a location plan which regulates the establishment of a border crossing to space, so that - in my deep belief - there is absolutely no reason that consensus could be vetoed in the implementation of this law. I am sure you understand my explanation that you will decide for the benefit of local communities, which are extremely important from a strategic point of view for the state of Slovenia. It is a border area which must receive our special concerns and an interference with the constitutional competences of these border municipalities in the manner that this law provides for by enforcing an opinion, it would be in my opinion - and probably most of you here, as you have already expressed in the vote on the amendment in the second reading - unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please. You're giving up. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the government's amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 25. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the representative of the Secretariat if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated. [[It's not.]] That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the representatives of the secretariat. Dear Members and Members. I conclude the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I respectfully ask you to take the material out of the hall for the meeting, as on 26.12.2001, at 7 p.m., there will be a festive meeting on the day of independence. I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly. Just a moment more attention, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. Allow me to say a few words from this privileged position before I invite the grand debate hall to the courtyard, so that I can count on them not to have a replica. I can risk the view that the National Assembly was working successfully in 2001. However, since we are a demanding and ambitious collective, we want to work even more successfully, and of course each of us imagines perhaps with our own eyes what the criteria are, and yet I think that, after all, the public's response to our work also shows that we are going in the right direction. The second year will be even more difficult; local, presidential elections, the European Union, NATO - all important and challenging topics will be at home. This will require very quality and maximum proper work from us. I think we're capable of it, and with that optimism, we can finish the job. This year, all together, you and your families, I want a nice Christmas and a New Year's holiday. In January we have a lot of work to do, it is right to rest in this regard and we will start here today in the lobby with a small reception, attention given to us by the small breeders, who are one of those groups that was also pleased with our work this year. Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, once again, happy New Year's anniversary, and I invite you to meet us in advance for a short meeting before we break up. [[Let's hear it.]]
