ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Have a good day. We begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Janez Janša, Dr. Michael Brejc, Pavel Rupar, Anton Delak, Franc Kangler, Franc Čebulj, Yuri Malovrej for the afternoon part of the session, Janez Cimperman, Franc Sušnik from 16.00 p.m. onwards, Lidija Majnik, Milan Kopušar for the afternoon part of the session, and Danica Simšič until 11.00 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall by inserting the cards. We're picking up the presence! [[47 present.]] That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them all very much. Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 28th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and work of ministriesWe will come to the consideration of the package of school laws, which is 32rd, 33rd and 34th points, and then in order of order as agreed. So we move on to 28. It's a day's work. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're starting the session, please, politely, if it can be a little quieter. DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE ORGANISATION AND WORKING AREA OF MINISTRY - A FAST PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Dr. Virant, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. The Law on the Organisation and Work Area of Ministries is one of two organisational laws governing the state administration. The first is the law on administration; the second is the law on the organisation and work of ministries. The government is preparing an ever-increasing change in the organisation of the state administration, a concrete new proposal for a new law on governance, which the two current laws - namely the Law on Administration and the Law on the Organisation and Work Area of the Ministries - are expected to merge into a single law and bring in a much more transparent, transparent definition of the organisational structure of the executive branch and the working areas of the ministries. Thus, the proposed amendment and additions to the law on the organisation and work of ministries cannot be considered as an important or more important step in the area of public administration reform. The main purpose of the proposed law is to harmonise this law with the Government Act, which was adopted before the establishment of a new government team after the national elections. This fundamental purpose, namely to comply with the Government Act, is joined by a number of organizational changes, which I will explain in more detail. In particular, the new Government Act introduced the following organisational changes: the merger of three economic agents into a single Ministry of the Economy; it brought a new Ministry of Information Society; it abolished the Ministry of Science and Technology and allocated its work area between two ministries; it changed the name and work area of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the Ministry of Transport and transferred the work area of mail and telecommunications to the new Ministry of Information Society, the body in the composition of the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development, that is, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, transformed it into a government service directly subordinated to the Prime Minister and transferred the work area of State aid control to the Ministry of Finance. The main part of the proposed novel is aimed directly at harmonising the law on the organisation and work of ministries with the law on government. In addition, the shorter work, i.e. harmonisation, brings the law to update the list of bodies and organisations in the composition of the ministries. Indeed, some have been established by sectoral laws and have not been taken over by ODPM and are now updating this situation with the proposed amendment. However, there have been some organisational changes that need to be highlighted in particular. The first major change took place in the Ministry of Environment and Space, where the three existing bodies in the composition of the ministries, namely the Administration for Nature Protection, the Administration for Geophysics and Administration and the Hydrometeorological Institute, as proposed by law, merged into a new Environment Agency. The proposed law introduces a reduction in the number of bodies in the composition of ministries, abolishes two government services and brings their work areas into the working areas of ministries, thus laying the groundwork for a certain rationalisation of work in the state administration. Once again, it is not a major shift in the organisational reform of the public administration, but it is a minor change, which nevertheless makes it possible to rationalise, in particular in the Ministry of Environment and Space. I repeat, two government services are being suspended. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs presented its position on the proposed law at the meeting of the home working body. Most of these comments were taken into account by the Government by preparing and adopting and sending amendments to the National Assembly, so the purpose of the government amendments is to align the draft law with the position of the secretariat on administrative law. In particular, it is an important amendment amending the transitional provision by making it clear that, irrespective of the changed areas of work, ministers continue to carry out their duties. The secretariat has specifically pointed out that in the event that the working areas of ministries are changing, particular attention should be paid to the question of whether this makes a qualitative change in the role of the minister so that the change in the field of work may even result in the termination of the minister's function and the obligation to "hearing" and the redefinition process. The Secretariat has put forward its view that it is crucial to assess whether this is necessary or not, whether it is a decisive criterion of importance, i.e. whether it is a matter of substantial changes in the work areas. The Senate has clearly defined whether, in a specific case where there are or are no substantive changes, the opinion shows that in such border cases a decision can be left to the legislator so that transitional provisions of the law can be regulated. This is also the purpose of the amendment. Well, I think or I hope that yesterday or today you have also received an organisational review, i.e. a review of the organisational structure of the state administration, which we promised at the meeting of the internal policy committee, which shows that the structure of the Slovenian state administration is quite or very transparent and not as transparent as it sometimes seems. We have a relatively simple structure of government. It consists of 14 ministries and within these ministries approximately 60 bodies and organisations. This review of the organisational structure also shows what the situation is now and what the situation would be if the proposed law were adopted in a text as proposed by the Government, as well as amendments tabled by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Dushan Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear Members and Members! At its 3rd meeting, on 14.3.2001, and at its 7th extraordinary meeting, on 11.4.2001, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Work Area of the Ministries. The Committee considered the proposed amendment in the light of the decision of the national assembly, following a rapid procedure. In the general debate, the representative of the proposer presented first well the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the law, stressing in particular that the purpose of the proposed law is to harmonise the organisation and the working field of ministries with the already adopted law on government; secondly, the new law does not bring about more extensive changes in the current law on the organisation and the working field of ministries and does not constitute a major intervention in the organisation of the state administration, but, of course, that the novelty brings some changes in the field of work and takes certain steps towards the objectives of the reform in the field of the organisation of state administration. The new law also means organisational rationalisation, as the amendment reduces the number of government services and thus reduces the number of political officials in the executive branch. Following the applicant's introductory explanation, the Committee took note of the views of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which is also attached to this item on the agenda. In the general debate that has been held, the members of the Committee have highlighted a number of issues that we can address in the following points. Firstly, the members of the committee agreed that this was an important law to be adopted. The question of the adequacy of the transfer of power from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Environment and Space was raised. They drew attention to the detailed vocation of powers and tasks within the specific work area of the field authorities. In the discussion below, a number of comments and questions were added concerning the revised status of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the government service, the role of the Consumer Protection Office, the relationship between the Ministry of Information Society and the Government's IT centre and the question of the status of the Hydrometeorological Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer then made appropriate clarifications to a number of questions and comments as reflected in the report of the Committee. Following these clarifications, the Committee concluded the general discussion and suspended the meeting until the time for it to obtain amendments from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, while the Committee unanimously assessed that the proposed legislative text was appropriate for further consideration. In the second reading, the Committee considered individual articles and amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the DeSUS Group and the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The Committee supported, by a majority of votes, all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members for Article 1.a. The majority of the discussions were devoted to the amendment of the SLS + SKD MP for a new 10a Article, following which a new State border office was to be established. The majority of the members expressed a number of concerns about this amendment, arguing that this issue, which is sensitive, needs to be examined in detail and examined in a number of respects, since the question of the State border touches on the competence of different ministries, not just the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within which this Office is to be established. The question was also raised as to whether it was appropriate for the National Assembly to go into the details of the organisation of individual ministries and the members of the Committee to consider that the Government in that case should leave itself to decide whether and make sense, in particular as regards the basic starting point - this is the rationalisation of the state administration - to set up new bodies within the ministries. The dilemma was also raised as to whether the Slovenian Border Office should be organised within the Ministry or as a government service. Following the discussion, the proposed amendment was not supported by the committee. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the Committee decided and adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and the labour field of ministries should be fully adopted and that the National Assembly should adopt an additional decision to authorise the State Assembly to carry out, in the final edition, the technical shortcomings of the legislative text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? Mrs. Tina Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At this point, I would just like to point out the circumstances with regard to the two amendments, the first and the second, which propose the introduction of new bodies in the composition of individual ministries. If the assembly decides and supports these two amendments, their work area will need to be determined in the appropriate places below, which is not yet done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. On behalf of the parliamentary group Procedural proposal, Mr Jožef Jerovšek. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law provides for extremely important changes in the field of energy. This is one of the key economic sectors. It used to be a self-resort. We observe, we know Members in this assembly, that we have not received any answers to energy questions in six months. This was also discussed by the Committee on the Economy on certain irregularities at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There too, the Minister has withdrawn, so it is not possible to be in contact with her. On the other hand, this is transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Space, where, in the case of bone meal, it has been shown within six months that this ministry is practically out of date. Since both ministers, Minister Petrinova and Mr Kopač have actually withdrawn from the illegal situation and are not accessible to Members, I think it is imperative that they participate here today in this debate. The Ministry's representative, the Secretary of State of the Interior, has dealt with this operationally, technologically and explained the transfer. Please call on the two ministers mentioned above to present today a vision of how they imagine this change. It's not a small thing. Energy has been out for six months without a partner, an energy society or an economic chamber, a section. So we need to pour ourselves some clean-up, and please call on the Member of Parliament mentioned to continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The procedural proposal, if I understand it, is that the National Assembly invites a government representative to attend the meeting and present their views to us. It is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit a proposal to the National Assembly in each law, including the representatives who will represent the government's views on the individual bill. In the case of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries, Dr. Rado Bohinc and Dr. Greg Virant are authorised. Any other call to the government's national assembly that we don't like it to want anything else, I think it would exceed our powers. The procedural proposal was such, my explanation was such, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through its representatives, is likely to listen to our discussions and, if they assess, I think they have time to empower their ministers to attend our meeting. The National Assembly cannot force them to do so, and Mr Jerovšek, a qualified candidate, I apologize, you have exhausted the procedural proposal. [[...]] We're moving on.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	I have the right to a procedural vote. Look, I'd like to supplement my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Mr Jerovšek, my explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	I will recast the procedural proposal by voting. I want the vote to be in the record. Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	Look, you didn't quite get me. I know that there is a representative here, the Secretary of State of the Interior, who has prepared the law on technical grounds. But it's very substantive. We need some answers whether we can decide on this matter or not. I insist that you put to the vote to call on the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment and Space, as I say, to come here illegally and to file these matters. I believe that the Ministry of Environment and Space is not at all capable of managing this department.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovska's procedural proposal is that, in order to clarify the national assembly, I would also like to have the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Environment and Space to participate in the consideration of this law. Such a procedural proposal shall be put to the vote by the national assembly. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes against 34. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. Let's get back to work. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, Mrs Majda Zupan will present the opinion. Here you go. Mr. Barovic procedurally? No, on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present to you the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries. The Government Act, which was amended at the end of last year to establish a new government team, also interferes with the structure of ministries, therefore the provisions on ministries and their work areas need to be amended. The law also introduces some changes, as the proposer takes advantage of the proposal, as he points out, also in terms of reform in the field of public administration organisation, aimed at reducing the number of authorities and organisations in the composition of ministries and reducing the number of government services. In comparison between the old organisation and the new one, we will also find out the following. After the old organisation before the amendment of the government law, we had 16 ministries, now we have 14 ministries, since three ministries, namely the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Small Economy, joined the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Science and Technology has been abolished and its work area is divided between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. However, a new Ministry of Information Society has been established, which also has the field of telecommunications and postal transport. The number of ministries has actually decreased, but we already have a new minister, the Councillor for the Coordination of the Anti-Burocratic Programme, and I think we can still expect the appointment of new ministers in this direction. That is why we do not see rationalisation in this direction, as our party has already said in the adoption of the government law. On the other hand, it is interesting that, as a candidate, the government has sent us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Law 1.3. in a material containing the text of articles that are changing and where only 54 work areas are listed. We then proposed on the home committee that the government prepare an existing and new organisational structure for ministries. We acquired this material as a working tool yesterday, and we were able to find that we actually have 61 work areas in all ministries. Some of the work areas in the original material, including in the Rapporteur, have not been published at all on 13.3. With the amendment of the law given to us by the government on the bench, the number of work areas is expected to fall from 61 to 53. Under the ministries, it would remain the same as before, namely, the employment area in the Ministry of Defence of the General Staff, then in the Ministry of Culture the archive, in the Ministry of the Interior the police, whereas the transitional home for foreigners would no longer be. The number of offices was 18, now there would have been 17; earlier there were 6 directives or now there are 6 directives, after the amendment there would have been 3; now there are 15 inspectors, with the novel would have been reduced to 13; we have 14 administrations, we would have reduced them to 12; and now we have 3 agencies, while the amendment would have increased the number to 5. Now we have a hydrometeorological institution and with the change of law we would no longer have it. The question arises about the purpose of setting up, for example, new agencies, when we know that we already have in the procedure a proposal for a law on public agencies, which stipulates that public agencies are independent and independent persons of public law, with legal personality. They are preparing, as we have heard, new laws - the Law on Public Administration, the Law on Public Servants and others, which will also affect this matter. We can also ask ourselves how different changes in the organisation and the working field of ministries can affect the role of individual ministers. In the event of the reorganisation of ministries, when the work area of a particular ministry is widened or tightened, it would probably be advisable to amend or adjust the statutory definition of the functions of a minister. As we have heard, the government has already done so in some respects and has provided additional explanations and additions and has somehow tried to resolve the issues raised in this regard. However, we can say that in essence it is only a matter of apparent rationalisation. In recent times, we have also seen in the public a claim that the new organisation of the ministries of the hydrometeorological institution, as I said before, will no longer be with such a name, which is supposed to be a unique case in Europe. We have been breaking down our services, which we have been building for over 150 years, from the beginning of our meteorological observations. They are not interested in setting up an environmental protection agency to which the new institution is also supposed to judge. However, they believe that changes and additions to the organisation of ministries and to its bodies require a more comprehensive approach, both in scope and in mode. We feel the same in our Novi Slovenija Group, because we find that the government actually wanted to bring the law into line with the actual state of affairs. This is to actually show 21 areas of work, and also - if we're still a little pre-emptive - it's a little confused, a little bit taken away, a little added and wanted to burn a path with 53 pieces, so with as many jobs as it was supposed to be, as many as it was before it was too big. However, these pieces will be too small because they are waiting for new ones at the door. Such a recipe is not enough to be able to talk about organisational rationalisation and a clearer definition of political responsibility than the government wants to convince us, although we feel that this ambition has already faded through the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! I will try to draw a parallel to today's proposal or the way in which the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the organisation law will be adopted by examining yesterday's proposal for a law amending the value added tax law. The parallel is obviously what it is, we'll hear in, I think, a very short analysis. The novelty of this law, which we are talking about today, as reflected in the report of the Home Committee, should be adopted in a package containing the amendment of the Government Act. Since that was not the case, today we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries. Today, as we did yesterday, we are faced with the fact that the proposed changes go beyond mere alignment with the amendment of the government law. As in the proposal for amending the value added tax law yesterday, there were requirements for the reduction of taxes due to firefighters, auto schools and so on. So, the resemblance is obvious. The Home Committee has drawn up an extensive report and has wisely proposed that a deeper intervention, a change to the applicable law we are talking about, should be made in full under the drafting proposal for a law on administration. Of course, that is why I absolutely agree with him. And one more thing is in this marriage that I'm going to mention among many. I do not know if the field of energy is so simple and so simple that it can easily be moved from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Environment and Space, even though we have read some explanations as to why. The field of energy was extensive, extensive, important, and it had a self-resort. In many European countries, energy is an important independent resource. All I have said is that this proposal is somewhat too late, that it has not been given in the package with the amendment of the law, that this proposal is too wide to include what does not belong to harmonisation, and given that we will talk about some of the changes, in particular, I stress the energy, because it is not so easy to transfer this activity to elsewhere, I would ask, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group of Colleagues and Colleagues, that they will be cautious, precise, I would point out once again whether it is necessary that, of course, there are also such things in which, of course, there are still many, we accept so quickly, after a rapid procedure, or whether it would be possible to wait and coordinate all the changes in the draft law on administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. The DeSUS Group will, of course, support amendments to the law on the organisation and work of ministries, as well as all harmonised amendments. However, since Ambassador Ivan Kebric has tabled an amendment to one of the articles of the law, I would also like to encourage you, Members and Members, to further support this amendment. It is an initiative to set up an office for the elderly at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Let me say that he gave a similar initiative a year ago by his fellow Member Anton Delak, who addressed it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The initiative was well-adopted, with the promise that it would be dealt with by a change of law, but unfortunately this has not happened so far. A similar initiative was also addressed to the Slovenian Government a month ago by the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia and further substantiated its proposal. Already, the information that the elderly in Slovenia, who are over 65 years of age, are over 13 percent, representing 250,000 people, is sufficiently eloquent. As age increases, however, this percentage increases significantly and rapidly. With all this, of course, the problem of the elderly. With the proposed amendment, we are extending the composition of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the elderly. Slovenia has signed the European Charter, which obliges our country to pay special attention to the elderly and to institutionalise this in the form of a working body within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Our country is also bound by the principles of the United Nations on the elderly adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1991. These represent, for all its members, an indicative programme of activities to be organised by the State in relation to assistance to the elderly. It is also our country's duty to resolve the rights of the elderly from the perspective of the Amsterdam Treaty or its Article 6a, Chapter I, which states that any discrimination in the field of the elderly must be excluded within the European Union. We are surprised that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not foreseen the establishment of this office, despite these repeated initiatives to establish an office for the elderly in the context of the novel. The elderly were provided for by law in the Republic of Austria, Denmark, Norway, in the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of France. As is evident in a number of Western European countries that are members of the European Union, the problems of elderly people are dealt with by special bodies such as offices, councils or departments in the ministries of social affairs which are dedicated to the problems of the elderly. Our Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs deals mainly with the elderly with the problems of pension payments, but does not have a specific organisational unit dealing with such problems. It is clear from the scheme governing the organisation and work of ministries that we have a number of offices from which, while dealing with youth issues, we do not have an office for the elderly. We therefore believe that it is necessary to set up an office to monitor, analyse, prepare reports in Parliament on the tasks adopted, in view of the development strategies for the protection of the elderly. At the same time, it will work with the competent ministries to prepare proposals. The establishment of such an office would highlight the humane attitude of our country, our society, or its responsibility to an older population, which represents an increasing share. The Committee on Internal Policy has endorsed the amendment, and I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal and to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, Mr Branko Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, everyone else is appreciated! We have before us a very important law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and work of ministries. In our parliamentary group, we are certainly even concerned about how a simple and simple way the government is trying to avoid the importance of the changes that have been made to the National Assembly and in what fine way it is trying to explain that this proposal does not change the specific functions of ministers. Our opinion is, of course, the opposite. We believe that there are very, very large interventions in the various work areas of the ministries and that it would be necessary for the Prime Minister to provide some clarifications and answers, perhaps also on very important questions, how he thinks of certain problems and how a certain organisation will then also be set up to solve all the problems that have accumulated in the government since the beginning of this new government and which this government has not been able to resolve. If, for you, a respected government, wherever you are, there are not many of these here, if there are 130, 140 billion jobs in this country, such as energy, for you little or no importance to discuss this slightly better and that even if it is a transfer from one ministry to another, which we think is incomprehensible, because energy is certainly everywhere in the world a very fundamental economic activity and there is no way to regulate the environment and space. I'm sure we don't, and by my logic, I'm sure you don't. I would like to know where you have these comparisons in the law, how this is regulated in Europe and in which ministries this is defined and, of course, I also expect this explanation. Why did I focus on energy? In the field of energy, there has been a real chaos in the field of energy since the beginning of this new government, immediately after the end of the rule of the former government, Mr Andre Bajuk and also Minister of Economy, Mr Zagozna. The fact that he's there is a saying, we've proved nothing how many times. We have proved with thousands of pages of documentation with precise arguments, what is in fact the matter, but neither the response of this national assembly nor the response of the government nor the Prime Minister to these comments. Every day, however, there is enormous economic damage due to irregularities in this area. However, we in the National Assembly and in all areas are almost fighting for every tolar, where we will get it, so that we can complete or implement all of these programmes and needs that this country has. Surely, therefore, such ignorance is unacceptable for us to change this law. In addition, I must say that during this period, on all our warnings and on our demands that the Minister for the Economy, in which there was still energy in the workplace, simply did not want to face these issues, as colleague Jerovšek had already assessed, was simply hiding and did not want to answer a whole range of important questions. The damage to the electrical system as such is happening, it's happening enormously, and it happens so much every day on a new one. The fact that the Minister is escaping is, of course, also evident from the whole range of questions we have asked in the National Assembly. The minister refused to answer them, she always replied, "I will answer in writing" and she did not reply in writing. Something's obvious. It is likely that the Minister of Economy is not a part of this whole issue of electricity, whether it is completely unknown in this area or is too difficult for it, beyond its capabilities, but the alippe are lobbyists, which is most likely, and the centres of power at other ends, and she had no power to actually intervene in this area, which she was trying to do in the previous government when she was a minister - I have the data that I have to use to try to regulate it, but because of the centres of power that are elsewhere, she could not do so. We've asked her a whole series of questions that I'm not going to mention here; I've only got about ten, fifteen, and it doesn't make sense to read them, but it's strategic questions. The Minister shall not respond to the responses of the Chamber of Commerce. The Economic Chamber itself notes and directors in the electricity sector find that they have no interlocutor for this area and that enormous economic damage is happening every day. In all of this, however, it is most unfortunate that, then, even the national assembly and the media, which have been properly informed and also serviced with all the data, simply ignore all these data or even deceive, misreport and mislead the Slovenian public and do not want to be identified on all these open issues. If I mention, among other things, just one segment so you won't say I'm stalling and commenting without a relationship. Not long ago, I wrote an open letter to the Prime Minister and the Ministry, in which I drew attention to all the new irregularities that are taking place in the field of energy. In fact, I have been informed that there has been a spill of water on the Sava River and the Drava River, because this option, which is now in power, is not capable of selling electricity surpluses. In an open letter, I wrote that I demand that the Slovenian public be familiar with this information and that it also answer these questions because there is a waste of electricity or money. In fact, in Savoy power plants, the production price for a kilowatt hour of electricity is about 6.2, if I am not mistaken, in Drava power plants 2.5 or 6, I do not know, something like this, mainly a very low production price. Meanwhile, thermal power plants operated with full steam, where electricity is produced at a price for a kilowatt hour over 10 in Šostanje and almost 18 tolars in Trbovje. Then you can figure out the differences here, what kind of financial loss occurs every day when the water flows into empty because it's not capable of selling electricity. And what did the media do? Of course, the media wrote an article, they didn't publish my public letters at all, but they wrote an article called Ignorance of the Power System, and in Eles they refuse information about large overflows in hydro power plants. But then I received a report - in this way the Slovenian public deceives and this national assembly - and then I received a report which says where the affected are writing on 20.3., a report on the overflow, on 20.3. The reason for the excess was the inability to spread energy. Respectable audience, respected public, these are Slovenian media, this is the Slovenian Parliament, this is the attitude of this country to important issues in this country. I'm sorry. And also because of such important issues that are not resolved in the field of energy and because they are billions, perhaps even ten billion losses that this country could use to its advantage, we are certainly strongly opposed to such a transfer and will not vote for it or support it. However, we still expect, despite the fact that the National Assembly has voted that it is not necessary, and the Government has also decided that it is not necessary for the Minister of Environment and Space to present and put forward some strategy and project on how this important issue for Slovenia will be resolved, regardless, we still expect the Prime Minister to join us here, and to listen to these warnings from the opposition and perhaps others, and to act accordingly. I cannot imagine that the Prime Minister, as the guardian of our economic system as such and as a whole, does not respond to such difficult and reasoned data from the opposition or anyone in that country who raises such questions. This is unacceptable, and I can't understand it. I would really like to get an explanation from the Prime Minister as to why he does not want to respond and why the government does nothing in this area. I am sorry that the National Assembly is not prepared either, whether Members do not care whether they know or have any other hidden interests, why they do not allow these matters to be dealt with and do not require these matters to be clarified. We will, of course, continue to demand that these things, so that we try to make our positive contribution to the energy field, even though we know that you will move it to an environment and a place where it does not fall under our assessment, that we will make our positive contribution to finally settling these matters in this area. I must also mention just one more area, this is the opening up of the internal market for electricity. We all know that under the Energy Act with April 15 we should open up the internal electricity market. Of course that didn't happen. After all the reports we have at our disposal, the government in this area is a huge mess. I am really interested and would like to have from the Minister of Environment and Space information on what strategy he intends to adopt, how he intends to resolve these issues, when these issues will be resolved and so on. In short, 100 and 100 questions for which it would be right for the National Assembly to have answers, but unfortunately, because of the government's attitude and obviously, it seems, Members who are satisfied with 700,000, 800,000 wages and are not interested in the other thing, in particular government Members, that they are satisfied and do not want important issues to be clarified in this country. Finally, let me just say this on behalf of the parliamentary group that the Socialist Party's Group will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Janez Podobnik and Mr Sašo Pece submitted to the debate in writing. However, before we begin the debate, in accordance with Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda, which is the Organisation and Work Area of ministries, but not energy policy, I respectfully ask that we stick to the agenda because this is an organisational regulation, not a responsibility for the State Assembly to adopt a policy in a particular area. Thank you very much. That is the word I give to Mr Joseph Jerovsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have before us changes and additions to the law on the organisation and work of ministries. Since this is the third change since the government's appearance, it is evident that in November, when Prime Minister Drnovšek presented the government, he actually introduced the cat to us in a frog. Indeed, many ministries were very happy to be incompetent for their work. And that's exactly what the situation is now. And, of course, it will take another six months for the new ministers or new state officials to feel competent and accountable to the National Assembly and also to the Slovenian people in order to give these answers. I am already saying that I hope that there will be more judgment in the state world, because the impact of the economy is greater there. Unfortunately, this National Assembly has no hearing in the government majority for the needs of the economy, for serious problems. For this reason, I hope that there will be a veto on this law if the majority of the government is in awe of the adoption of this law. I will focus mainly on the work area of energy. However, I would like to mention earlier that some of the government's explanations seem unacceptable to me. The government says it's about rationalization. Of course, the government only mentions actual ministries in the explanation of today's law, and we know that with the amended government law we have also introduced additional ministries, ministers of council. And one ministry has already been established, and under the new law state secretaries are also possible and are already appointed. So the actual situation is that the number of government officials is increasing, but no responsibility and competence is being resolved. These changes also state that political responsibility will be better defined in some areas. I cannot agree with this argument. Political responsibility should be and is clearly defined under the current law. But the fact is, we have ministers who are incapable and willing to take action. It is also stated as a reason that the transfer of energy to the Ministry of Environment and Space is envisaged in order to highlight the environmental aspects of energy. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. In fact, in this case, it is a matter of underestimating energy and energy. The whole energy sector and the Energy Section in the Chamber of Economics clearly and loudly state, and we know that this is a classic economic sector, that in some countries it is a single resource, in some countries that are perhaps more energy-rich, one of the key sources. However, in our country too, it is possible to save a lot of money at the expense of energy and possible energy savings for the state budget. The apparent government has no interest in this, even in the light of developments in the energy sector over the last two years. In fact, they're leaking, proven to be leaking: billions of dollars. And despite warnings, despite clearly stated responsibility, the government is consciously working to see that everything in this area is in order. And by amending the law that provides for the transfer of energy to the Ministry of Environment and Space, it comes at a time when it has clearly proved that the Ministry of Environment and Space is not capable of solving the problems so far. The most crucial classic cases are bone meal and waste fat. This is today, not an environmental problem, it's become an energy problem. And the energy problem cannot be solved by the Ministry of the Environment; it is being tackled by dilettarianism; I say so by this point; it is probably because of ignorance and probably because of corruption. I'm sure. Indeed, everything is being done to upset the public, to bid the price of incineration and to prevent the public from incineration so that it can be exported at enormous prices. And to such a resort, among such people, the Prime Minister means to place the area of energy. I submit that the Ministry of the Environment could arrange, without problems and without technical problems in one week, for bone meal to be smoked at energy facilities in Slovenia, especially in the first moment and the first day of excess fat, but it is smoking in Austria. This is a disgrace to this country today. Bone meal and fat [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Mr. Jerovšek, I'm sorry. We're on our way. Please really stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Work area, we are talking about the work area and the possibilities for the Minister of Field Affairs to cover this area. I would only accept it in this context if the Prime Minister were here and would assure us that he is transferring this to the new ministry, because then he will need a hearing or withdrawal from the Minister for Environment and Space and that he intends to put the new Minister in a fine manner because he is not currently able to take responsibility. Indeed, this is also the fact that such a strong change is taking place and that, according to the criterion of change, a new hearing is urgently needed in this case in order for the new minister to take a serious look at this area. In fact, this law shows that there was no serious breach. However, I do not blame the Secretary of State, Mr Gregor Virant. The law is properly drawn up from a legal technical point of view. The bill itself shows that they are unaware of what they are doing in the current ministry and the future ministry. According to this proposal, the current energy inspectorate will be called an inspectorate of steam boilers and pressure plants. This is an extremely difficult area, which is also associated with extremely high risks. If it is as it is now, it goes under the market inspectorate, where the economists will certainly have the main word, then there will be major disasters in Slovenia in the short term. They're playing with fire. Another important part of energy and energy activities will come to the Ministry of Environment and Space. And so, let's say it's a thermocentre, any separation between the two ministries. This could now be done in one ministry, one minister was responsible, but now it is a conscious confusion of responsibility, an extension of government in this area and a cover for corruption. This is certainly what colleague Kelemin discussed earlier, billions and billions have passed in two years; in fact, they could have had free primary education if this were evenly distributed. Mr. Lavrinz, just laugh! In this area, it was a budget break-in, a classic budget break-in. I'm surprised by the lack of seriousness and the unwillingness to listen to arguments. This is how a government coalition of trees goes down for people. People in this country are not important, neither are their options nor their standards. Finally, I reiterate that, because of the terrible inconsistencies, including the technical feasibility of this in the most important sector, the proposal in such a form, which provides for the transfer of energy resources to the Ministry of Environment and Space, is unacceptable. I am not saying that some other changes may not be useful and smart, but the law is used as a fig leaf for the continuation of energy inefficiencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Work Area of Ministries is essentially the continuation of amendments to the Government Act, which were adopted three months ago. In this sense, it is understandable that this is a classic technical law. Indeed, as is evident from the material of the working body as well as from some other materials, some of these changes, which have been recorded in the government law, have, on this occasion, intervened with some other amendments to this law. Thus, this material has lost the status of classical technical matter and is therefore also of such great interest to fellow Members of Parliament, as well as to some other institutions which are linked to the operation of new solutions in this law. It is therefore understandable that I will support the basic intentions of changes to the law, particularly those linked to changes to the government law. When the National Assembly adopted changes to the government law, this time I called if you remember, on exactly the same subject as I would this time. It is a matter of whether a change in the working circle of an individual department, increase or decrease also affects the status of the minister himself. If I take this dilemma into account very quickly. In the opinion of the Secretariat of 14 March 2000, this issue is very clearly defined. Allow me to quote: "It is first of all about the question of how different changes in the organisation and work area of ministries can affect the role of individual ministers or the definition of individual ministries and the relationship between them." On the other hand, from the opposite point of view, this issue has already been raised in part with regard to the interpretation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act. Among other things, the secretariat also addressed the link between the ministerial function and the labour or departmental area of the ministries. In this opinion, the secretariat then goes on to give a much more detailed opinion on this dilemma, which then concludes with the question whether, in the case of the reorganisation of ministries, when the work area of a particular ministry is expanded or strengthened, the criterion or criteria for a substantial change is crucial. If the work area of a particular ministry is to be substantially changed by reorganisation, I stress that it is essential to change it, and the legal definition also needs to be adapted accordingly. In rounding up the title, the minister's functions, which certainly requires appropriate transitional provisions in relation to existing ministerial functions or, as a result, leads to the termination of the current minister's functions. Because otherwise, we get into a systemic disharmony of two legal arrangements. The secretariat then concludes its opinion and says: "The concerns, in particular with regard to the transfer of energy," I would like to point out that my debate touches on this systemic issue. However, I do not think that this consideration of the law is an opportunity to raise these specific issues. This is the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs. I hear you've already taken advantage of them and you're not happy with the answers. Here is the institute, the treatment at the working body and, finally, the institute to place the point at a meeting of the national assembly. And I propose this path to be fully in line with the business provisions. Therefore, concerns about the transfer of the energy sector from one ministry to another could be addressed, but these concerns could be addressed by explicitly transitional provisions in the draft law, by establishing a link between the amended tasks in the ministries and the already established ministerial functions and responsibilities, in such a way as to ensure that, in the case of an assessment, the National Assembly, the bill-maker does not make any substantive changes in the above-mentioned sense, that, however, there are significant changes in powers and then determines that the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continue their work and responsibilities within the remit of their ministries, taking into account the changes in the tasks of the Ministry, in accordance with this law. My personal opinion is that this-this last part is a classic, legal "bay belt" in interpretation, in some way looking for a legal way out of great embarrassment. We were in the latter as legislators when we adopted an interpretation in the amendment of the government law and that, with the implementation of the law at that time, some ministers were even suspended by a mandate and the ministerial function literally went out. But there will be no misunderstanding, I firmly believe that the proposed solution proposed by the Government is from the principle point of view that a new first paragraph should be added in article 31, which reads as follows: "Ministers shall, on the date of the entry into force of this Act, continue to serve in the working areas of the ministries determined by this law or by the management of the ministries of employment as provided for by this law." So that we do not live in the faith that we have thus resolved any possible concerns, from this constitutional or systemic point of view. We didn't have any doubts. If we succeed in making such an amendment, we will act as different as we did in the government law, or, with this interpretation, politically, we will decide with most of us here that, for example, when the energy sector is moved from one district to another, we will confirm with such a conclusion that it is not an element like the Secretariat, a substantive change. I would like to make it clear here that this is a hoax. Energy is an essential element in every country. And that interpretation would be wrong. Now we're getting out of trouble, but when you start making compromises every day, you're like a distraction. When it starts to fall off, it goes off next time and next time. I think it's an unscrupulous, unscrupulous solution, and somehow we'll get caught in our own trap sooner or later. I will not support such an amendment myself, nor will I, because I warned you three months ago in this place that we would be in a situation of misinterpretation in the government law next time we do otherwise. That's what we're looking at today. So, in principle, I think that this is an unfair solution and puts some, including ministers, in different situations. That is, if it's the right majority, we'll save it if it's a different majority, otherwise. This is an unintentional act and I will not support it in any way within the meaning of this amendment. However, it was a mistake to include in this law other changes that were not strictly necessary, in addition to some changes related to the government law. And now we're ahead of the mystery we're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina has the replica. Then he has the word, Mr. Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I apologize for having to replicate Mr. Sponik. Of course, I appreciate his debate, which has certainly been reasoned and correct. However, respectable Mr Podobnik, please let me know then, given that we are truly members of the opposition, or of the Social Democratic Party, we may have violated the rules of procedure or have discussed this issue more than we should have in this context. But please, please, let me tell you where in this country we should present the reasoned documents and where to draw attention to these major irregularities that are taking place in this country. Not on the Committee on the Economy. The questions sent are not answered. No one in the National Assembly takes these questions into account. Who's to solve this now, please? I will tell you all together, I will tell you all, because I can no longer do this because look, because if a man gets angry, he is burned, if he says an ugly word, he is burned, if he does anything, at the end of the day, I have no choice but to be sad and cry over all this at the end of the day. It's obvious. But I tell you that this National Assembly is nothing more than a farce of Slovenian democracy and the farce of this political system. I'm actually disappointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek also has a replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I would add little to Mr Podobnik's reply that the right place is an economic committee and a parliamentary question. Last time we opened up, or was the energy point, about Eles, on the Committee on the Economy. Most of us voted that there was no need to call the secretary. This majority is from this government coalition. Mr Horvat - unfortunately, I don't see him here today - said explicitly: "There will be plenty of opportunities for this to address the law on changes and additions to the organisation and the work area." To be clear, I can bring you a magnetogram because there was an obstacle to the debate, we also had to put it here. Even because the final vote on this is going to go to the media, I think what's going on at Eles. In fact, there, in the Saturday annex, the editor of praise analyzes the participatory brand. Thank you very much. But the same editor doesn't give one side to process this, the billions that are gone. But it works with 10,000 marks. Here, unfortunately, you've led us to the fact that we also have to put it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Lavrinc has the replica, and then indeed Mr Sašo Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Madam Vice-President, I think we should take Mr Kelema's word first. What he has afforded is the regret of the highest state authority in this country. I suggest if he is not satisfied with the company he surrounds, let him resign.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Replica has Mr. Sponik. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to rephrase my fellow Member, Kelemini. I myself have discussed the issue of the transfer of energy from one ministry to another on the basis of the legal solutions in this item on the agenda, and in particular on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, in the light of the principle legal question. If you remember - this is more about a joke than really - I said that I would pay all my fellow Members dinner if we took the opinion of the secretariat consistently into account. Obviously, I won't have to pay for dinner because I can see the direction this decision is going, which I think is unprincipled. We will continue in this mandate with the majority that we have. You know, the messenger is obliged to say what he meant and what is right. So I'm sure it's my duty to warn you about this trap we're trapped in here. I'm talking to my colleague, Kelemini, with the next one. Anyone who thinks that the field of energy is not one of those to be discussed by the National Assembly has the wrong view. Comrade Kelemin, if you understand me in this sense, closing your tongue and mouth as an MP, you misunderstood me. The Rules of Procedure provide the following options: if you are not satisfied with the answer to the question being sent, suggest that this should be done at one or the next session; if you are not satisfied with the decision on the working body, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, first suggest that this should be considered at the meeting of the national assembly - if this item is not included, collect the required number of signatures and propose an extraordinary meeting, and the item will be placed safely in the meeting of the national assembly. These are business options, and as Democrats we will also enforce them for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc would have humbly replicated it. I admit that I have regretted the National Assembly, but I have a lot of arguments for this, and I am not going to apologize for that either. But I will only say this: if it would help if my resignation had contributed to all things being settled in this country, not just to give up, I would have died with real pleasure! That's what I'm telling you! Not only would he give up, he would die with real pleasure, so that things in this country could be arranged, that this country would be a rule of law, democratically just and that all people would live happily ever after. If it makes us live happily ever after, I'll die right now! That's what I'm saying. And this to Mr. Companion. Look, I've introduced a lot of these procedures myself. I have all the documentation behind me, and I have put in place a number of procedures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But time is running out, and the procedure has time, you understand! This country obviously has time, power has time, and does not react, but loss or damage is greater every day and is increasing every day. And how am I supposed to put in place an institute, a rule of procedure, if we play at all levels - the first time, the second time, the third time. I have documentation for this and I can present it to you, because you were the President of the National Assembly and you know how this works. I'm sorry about that. I regret everything, but obviously there's no solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Your Honors are here! Allow me because I applied for a normal debate to use this as a replica. Mr. Kelemina is right. This National Assembly is a farce, whether you like it or not, but you are the main players of the farce in that quota of the 60s, or two-thirds, which allows you to do whatever you want here. [[The ad from the bench.]] Here, the will of the people, as you rightly said. I hope that no longer will be the will of the people to learn about what they are trying to do, what they are trying to do with the proposed novel that we have before us, the content of this novel and the agencies that you are planning to double or put in the framework of various ministries. As far as the rules of procedure are concerned, it goes through, as far as the government law adopted by this State Assembly at the beginning of its term of office is concerned, all of this points to a farce. But let it be enough to make it just like a replica. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in a rapid manner [[Hexagon]] "for the extraordinary needs of the state." That's the explanation we got in the report. "The emergency needs of the country", and we will therefore consider, say, a new law on the organisation and work of ministries following a rapid procedure. And what is this extraordinary need of the state? Is this the establishment of new agencies as organs within the government? Do you see this as an extraordinary need for the state? Gentlemen, the institute of state emergency is somewhere else. And you will destroy and destroy it with too much and too much use. Thus, at the beginning of this mandate at the end of 2000, this National Assembly met with the Government Act. In our opinion, according to the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, the substance of this novelty, which we are meeting today, is suitable for that law. And if the government, the representative of the government, the Prime Minister who led this country, for example, from independence onward, with greater or less power, after ten years he did not know what the need is, or what the basis of the government law is, to include this matter in it and he has found it now within three months, it is sad for this country. And you use a term that is increasingly common in the categories of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS+SKD of the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, the word rationalisation. The word rationalization has obviously grown to your heart so strongly that you no longer wonder what that word basically means. But because it sounds good, and because you somehow imagine that this is some sort of European norm, you are using it in all areas because you are trying, I stress, this farce, the farce of the National Assembly only to increase and make it easier to rule this country by equating the legislative and executive powers. You have succeeded in the first stage, with the signing of the Coalition Treaty of the 60 Members and in the second phase, by amending the Rules of Procedure, and by amending the Rules of Procedure, and also by amending this Law and by adopting a new Law on Government. That this country or government is not serious and that this action can be demonstrated is also one of the measures presented by the government last Thursday. This country is also trying to rationalise it by means of this law, trying anti-barbaric measures. And what does he accept? The first measure of the Anti-Burocratic State is the establishment of a new commission. Around here, this national assembly is also being judged. The anti-biocratic measure is the establishment of a new commission. Please. The question that I was talking about at the outset is also a new agency in the composition of the new ministries. This is not about doubling and acquiring unilateral political power. As far as energy is concerned as one of those areas, which, of course, should be more important in our society, or should take a more important place in our society than it is, only a self- and substantively integrated service within our own ministry is acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. This is an area that deserves this theme; this is an area that will be increasingly affected because we are increasingly adapting to the European Union. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want or do not want, this is the ruling coalition, but the energy field is the one that will be the strongest in the coming years, both political and other spirits in this country. In the Slovenian National Party, in particular, if I try to avoid further political reflection, especially because of the opinion of the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which it finds in its favourable findings, as in the recent act by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the explanation is imprecise, that it is flawed and that the Secretariat points to a large number of shortcomings, from basics, such as numerical shortcomings, numbering of individual articles, to of course substantial substantive comments, which are listed in more than ten only in the Secretariat of the National Assembly. If the Secretariat of the National Assembly has found these things - we are now talking about professional matters - it is sad that such a document, which is increasingly appearing in our hands, has come to this table. We will not support the proposals or amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. However, they are reported as follows and in this order: first Mr. Franci Rokavec [[He's not here.]] and then Mr Branko Janc, Dr. Joseph Bernik and Mr. Bojan Kontic. Because Mr. Rokavac is gone, Mr. Branko Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to this law, I participated in the Internal Policy Committee because there has been a repeated view that there is no parliamentary practice where parliaments decide what the organisation of government departments or ministries should be. Of course, I absolutely agree with that. However, if the government is already asking me about my position on this issue, I also want to say it today. It is my opinion that it is proposed, in at least one part, that the proposed changes are meaningless and confused with sound logic. To argue my claim, I would focus only on the transfer of energy resources from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Environment and Space. Firstly, it seems to me that the area of electricity production, distribution and transfer, as well as the areas of mining, are classical economic activities belonging to the economic sector. They have virtually nothing to do with the nature-security sector. Secondly, in the European Union, the field of energy is an independent resource. This suggests that the European Community countries are putting energy at an extremely important level, which will also be reflected in the future. Next time, the energy sector does not belong in the Ministry of Environment and Space, because there will be a conflict of interest in this area. On the one hand, this ministry will be responsible for the secure supply of energy to Slovenia; on the other hand, it will be responsible for us as citizens living safely in one surrounding area, which will have a quality of life. However, electricity producers are the largest companies that are burdening and polluting the environment. What will be the Ministry's conduct in these cases? The next argument, which seems extremely important to me, is the question of the Krško nuclear power plant. In fact, the Ministry of Economy was previously responsible for the energy part of the power plant, and the Ministry of Environment and Space through the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety was responsible for the administrative safety part. The Ministry of Environment will now be responsible for the complex facility. I'm afraid there's going to be a "kadia sued, kadia sued." I am very concerned about such a solution. And the next argument seems to me to be just as pointless, as it appears through this law. It's about keeping the mines locked up. These are the mines of Mežica, Idrija, Zagorje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Kanjiarica and Senovo. They remain in the Ministry of Economy, which is totally nonsense for me because they belong to the Ministry of Environment and Space. Those who know these places where mining has taken place will know that these are the most environmentally degraded areas in Slovenia. And that's exactly why my point of view is exactly the way I said it in the first place. Of course, I will not prevent the ministers responsible for this area from carrying out their intention in the form of a law, but I will not vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec and then Dr. Joseph Bernik have the floor. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members and Members of the Government. I think that the predecessor, my colleague Mr Janc, has said a lot of things that he himself wanted to touch in the debate on this law. For the fact is that the area covered by the environment and space is both in conflict with the field of energy, that, according to so far known data, only one European country is united in such a cross-cutting area. It's an area of different interests. In fact, it might not have been so questionable to link these two segments if, in a way, Slovenia had not been ahead of one of the very important mega projects, the so-called construction of hydroveriga on the lower Savi. And look, now it's going to happen that in some way in the same sector there will be decisions about spatial interventions, which in some ways energy means one of the biggest spatial interventions, and on the other hand management, as part of this company's economic segment in terms of obtaining the necessary electricity. [[...]] In fact, here I am wondering what changes are needed in this area at all. I think with this change, we're going from the rain to the drop. Literally from the rain under the rain. In fact, from better regulation to some sort of arrangement that we don't have so far. We also have no comparative experience from other European countries. And we're literally doing an experiment on the organisation of ministries. In some ways, it is the right of each government to in some way form the labour area of ministries, in its opinion. But there's probably some logical conclusions to be drawn here. And the fact is that this is already a self-resort. Also in European countries, there is a wide range of independent ministries of energy and I do not see any need for any change in this area. I would point to another illogicality in this marriage proposal. This is the so-called denationalisation office. We are now transferring the Office of Denationalisation to the Ministry of Justice. I believe that this is probably a negative direction rather than a positive direction. Indeed, all actors in this society are in some way always stressing and in each forum stressing how it is necessary to complete denationalisation as quickly as possible and that this is primarily a whole government project. In some ways, I would point out that in this proposal, too, there may be responsibility for not completing denationalisation in a somehow-planned framework. On the other hand, it may also escape the responsibility to impose this responsibility on one of the specific resources. The fact is that, in some ways, it cannot be a denationalisation of only the area of the Ministry of Justice that is supposed to somehow cover this issue, but is a denationalisation of the issue of all the government's departments. One more time. I think that this is also one of the mistakes in this proposal, and I also think that this law is inappropriate in such proposals and I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Bernick, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Several times today, a new password called needs has already been mentioned, the emergency needs of the country. Before that, the password was a success. So a person wonders when he looks at this law, what it's really about. Undoubtedly, there are many things that have been improved, but there are others who have been disguised or even eliminated. Like the experience in the economy, we know that when a matter has to be covered up or similar, a bit of misleading to the shareholders, then a reorganisation of the company is first carried out, so that the finished items are camouflaged. My colleagues have talked about this before, and I'm not going to say it again. But I'm gonna ask you this. I don't know what the mathematics of our government is, I don't know if they can explain it to me, but I have two simple questions: how many state secretaries are there today and how many were there before? That's one question. Second: Where did the Slovenian Language Office go? As you know, we have asked the government twice when ministers and Prime Minister were here, and it has been both allowed to establish this office and, if I recall correctly, the money for this office is also in the budget. Now he's nowhere to be seen. There's no mention of him being gone either. I'd like to know and explain why this office isn't listed. Secondly, when will it be established if it has not yet been established and will the budgetary resources still be available to this office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To suspend the session for a moment and to welcome the Italian senator and rapporteur for Slovenia, Mr Demetri Volcic. Nice greeting on behalf of the Members. [[Let's hear it.]] We proceed with Mr Bojan Kontic's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. Most of what I wanted to say is about energy, moving energy from one source to another, but Mr Janc said essentially what I wanted to say myself. I have repeatedly explained my concerns about the transfer of energy from the economy to the Ministry of the Environment and Space, and I agree in essence that this transfer is controversial. It is also disputed that closing mines, as has already been said, remain in the Ministry of Economy and that the active part of energy moves into the environment and space. I think that this should be exactly the opposite, that real active energy should stay in the economy, and what has to do with the environment should move into the environment and space. In addition, I have also had doubts, and I have already spoken publicly about it, that in fact now waste within our country, which is part of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, is currently being obtained at the same time by the Ministry of Energy. It is called thermal energy facilities that are most suitable for the destruction of these wastes and will all be regulated within one source. It is said that waste collection, as well as destruction or thermal recovery where possible. However, let me say that, despite all the concerns I have, I will support these changes proposed for several reasons. The first reason is that, in my opinion, the Ministry of the Economy is too extensive and that energy does not have this position within the Ministry that it should have. If we look back, in 1992, we had an Energy Minister, then in the next government of the Secretary of State, even in this one, for the last time, we had a government secretary covering this area, now we have a state Undersecretary of State covering the field of energy, and in fact it is more about energy status than where this energy will end. As things show, at the beginning or later, not at the very beginning, there are also trends in energy transfer to the Ministry of Transport. And I don't want to argue about that either. But that's all I'm gonna say. With similar arguments, as we are now transferring this area to the environment and space, we could also decide, at the final stage, that it belongs to the resort of tourism. People are very interested in viewing energy facilities and coal mines as well. I'm afraid that's what someone's going to suggest. It is important, as I have already said, that we will finally know where energy is, where energy belongs and, above all, who is responsible for energy policy in this country. There are a lot of things that need to be done in the field of energy. It is right that at least one ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Space, should seriously approach the development of an energy national programme, energy balance and so on. I would therefore like the state of energy to be restored, to be said, or to be aware that this is an important sector in the economy and that we are also taking it seriously. That is why I will also support these proposed changes, despite all the concerns I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Max Lavrinz has the floor. Would you like to replicate, Mr. Podobnik? Then Replica has the advantage. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Squirrel. Then Mr. Max Lavrinz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. In short, I would like to replicate to my colleague Kontić, especially with the part where he may have deliberately ironed some other thoughts. If the government has already decided to transfer the energy sector to another sector, perhaps also because of the fact that it is indeed a merger of some other areas in the economic sector, that this has become too extensive, I would like to say the following. In our parliamentary group, and also in our party, we have given serious thought and some analysis as to whether it would be justified, even comparable to European experience, and given the competence and scope of energy being an integral part of the transport sector. That's true, I can confirm that. We took this very seriously, and we have prepared ourselves well on this subject. And of course, if that were to happen, this would be exactly the same with regard to my previous debate. In this case, too, in our view, if they were consistent, the Minister would have to present himself again to the working body, as he would have received a new resort. This applies to all the same. However, I have to say very directly that when we look at the experience in European countries, especially in the European Union countries, then together we can find that far most of the countries where this resource is within the economic sector are far away. That's 80% of the countries or more. It is true, however, that some of them also have economic segments in some other areas. They also, of course, have in the area of urbanism, in the environmental protection sector, as well as in the infrastructure sector, because it is also a transport infrastructure. So, our proposal, which we have also drawn up in the amendments, because if we tabled such an amendment to transfer energy from the current economic sector to transport, would need at least, I think, five or six amendments, because the current law is so written that this area has been very detailed and placed in individual articles of this law. Therefore, such a transfer would also be procedurally rather complex. We consulted in the framework of the parliamentary group on this issue, including colleagues in coalition parties, if I may say so in public. Then, after careful consideration, because we have not received support and greater enthusiasm for our initiative and our proposal, we have now withdrawn from this proposal to propose this with amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Max Lavrinz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. According to my opinion, Shakespeare was a real high school student compared to some writers of today's drama at the time of adoption, for my terms, not as important a law as it tried to show up all the time through the debate. Why? The Secretary of State said that the government is working intensively, first of all the profession of course, then the government will deal with it in the reform of our administration. The result or outcome of this is already some laws that even run here in the process. On the Internal Policy Committee, it was agreed to prepare a public presentation where the government would present the whole context, that is, the whole public administration, as it should look after, of course, we take a step towards it. And what you're running here today, I don't know, because of whether energy is going to be here or there, I don't think it's really necessary, especially after my assessment of who's going to have an impact. I personally see no reason for him to move to where he is moving, because I agree with his colleague Janz's substantive argument, but in my opinion, when I decide and decide to marry, the Prime Minister must have thought about why he decided to do so. So, these stories, which one always tries to inspire, some fears, thieves, in short, the smell of speedy courts, after someone has found out who did some kind of scoundrel, convicted him and, of course, executed him no, but that's what gentlemen are passing in these days, some years when experts are wondering how it's possible that such systems have happened, where it really happened. I will ask that these discussions do not use as difficult words as they were, say, out of Mr Kelemina's mouth. For those who do not recognise the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism, and this is that we say them here, even different opinions - after all, even in our parliamentary group, there are different opinions - then this is the end of parliamentary democracy and democracy in general. For enlightened absolutes [[Ala Maria Teresa and so on]] It's not too much. I would suggest that, perhaps, I give this to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, of course, who have the competence to consider, after a public hearing, to take one pause at this point, to inform the government, I suppose that the Secretary of State is not authorized to decide what is yes or no, to take it into account with the serious concerns which I am reading only that if you work so as to save each thing for the plenary session, there is a rare exception here, Mr Podobnik, who has made the exact same argument already on the committee, then of course you are deliberately making it difficult for yourself to work. For if these discussions were to take place on the Internal Policy Committee, which considered this law as a parent labour body, then, from then on, the government would also have the power to adopt a position, perhaps even to correct it by the rules that it had counted as being misjudged. By the way, that's enough for today. But I think such a good organization, a perfect organization, a scheme without real people, doesn't work. And the opposite is exactly the same. So here we can throw eyelashes, if the right people don't put gentlemen there, the stories will still be the stories you wanted to represent here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleague Lavrinc or Mr Lavrinc, however you wish, I think that part of your debate has been incorrect and has overcompensated a number of things. You can admit that. I'm just curious, given that you said that there were quick courts and executions and so on, that those times had passed, and that this is just an anniversary and so on. Dear fellow, I would only ask you. Have I personally done something like this in my life, or can you tell me? In those six months, was it possible that this Bajuk government did something like this when it was in power so that you could see something like this? Where did you get that information, when you were convicted of so highly condemning someone who didn't do something? It's pure drowning, leaning on something, leaning on something that never happened and can never happen. That's a fact. And I would really ask you not to do that, because I don't tell you either, even though I could condemn you ten times more, for example, because you've been in power for ten years and you're the only one who wants and affects these things, that they are what they are today. But as far as well, you say the right people. [[...]] If you think you're the only one and the rest of us aren't real, then tell me. You have that right too, but where are you gonna find the right people, I don't know what are the right ones for you. Just tell me your criteria, and we'll do a survey, and we'll try to evaluate ourselves. As far as the board's concerned, it is. If, for you, the basis of democracy is that good arguments as well as good solutions are resolved by total voting, what you are doing, then democracy, according to my opinion, is, as the meaning of some good arguments, the enforcement of good arguments, the opposition or the establishment of different positions, is exploitable. Then this does not lead to progress, but leads only to what you have previously warned yourself. I am very grateful to you if I just add to this, that I will not say again that some other Members have made a very objective definition of this issue, so that neither have we, our Group of Members, exactly so, because we want to delay or anything else, have warned about all these, according to our assessment, incorrect solutions. However, it is of course a question, but I have already explained how it is in the countries of the European Community. [[...]] And I'd like to ask you one answer. Are we now transferring energy to another area simply because the Minister of Economy does not want this area in her own sector anymore? If this is the reason that she is unable or unable, or she does not want or where are the reasons that she simply wants to be transferred because of her interest or because of the interests of the Prime Minister or anyone else, then tell us that we will know the basic reason. If possible, give an answer. In my opinion and also in the opinion of a large part of the Members, it was, in fact, crystallized here, is that the field of energy belongs to the economic sector. We insist on that, and we will not give up on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Max Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. This spirit from past times is still present. He is present today in discussions where you wanted to make the government a simple executive council. He is present in these rooms because we have not come further than the congregational way of working in my own way. He is also present in the words of his colleague Kelemina because he suddenly wanted to forget what he was saying here. That is why, of course, he was carelessly referring to the Bajuk government, which was not at all in his mind, and he is well aware of it. This spirit of the past is, however, a collective responsibility. No, my dear colleague Kelemin, you are responsible for what you did here before the National Assembly, and this is my firm assessment that you have offended the highest body of the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Let's stop these replicas. There's no end here. Mr. Kelemina, last line, because we're moving away from what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Truly, Comrade Lavrinz, I am very grateful that you told me this criticism. Now I ask myself and all of you, in fact, I am responsible for my statements and for my work in this national assembly, which I have made or done, or whatever. Now tell me, what is this responsibility? How much does that cost me? If I'm a bastard, nothing if I'm an honest man, only my conscience can hurt me, or anything else. But tell me how much you're responsible for your wrong choices. How much do you answer? Nothing. This is what I have often triggered, that in fact individuals and the National Assembly, especially individuals, are not entirely responsible for anything. For absolutely nothing and we can accept what we want in this national assembly, we answer nothing. The fact that in four years, the voters won't vote. Please, they forget everything, because you'll find new excuses, new songs, new promises, new gardens, and everything will be the same. That's right. You're not answering anything, and we're not answering anything in this country, and that's why we're in this country. But if they were to answer me in a manner appropriate, it would be different. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Lavrinco and my colleague Kelemini. I don't think your dialogue here is necessary. First of all, I'd like to say that I really appreciate my colleague Kelemin. I think he's in some sincere concern for some area here. If he was a bit harsh in his statements, this is a matter of interpretation; his purpose was corrected and true. I wouldn't have called him to account like that. However, I would suggest to the representative of the government that before we conclude the general debate, because before that, my colleague Lavrinc had a proposal to perhaps call on the government to identify himself for a discussion and some proposals to overcome this proposal, I would like to ask here the representative of the government present, Dr Virant's Secretary of State, if I could take the debate. A key question was what led the government when it decided that it had moved an important energy resource to another area. If we had a clear answer to this question, the argument, the reasons, then probably there would be no need to address the government in any way and we could proceed with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please, and then Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	So that you do not appreciate me, Mr Podobnik, what was understood from your words, that of course you appreciate only Mr Kelemino, is your personal assessment and surprised me a little bit, I must say; I thought at least that you respect that I was trying to conduct the meetings of my mother's working body properly. Otherwise, your statement of good intentions. Someone smarter than me in the past said, "The way to hell is pressed with good intentions." I'm always afraid of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	A short replica. Comrade Lavrinc, you're very good at working-body sessions. I've replaced my colleague Kangler several times myself. Indeed, you are having a good session of the working body, and in this regard I appreciate you as an experienced parliamentarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Now let's give the floor to Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much. A whole series of questions have been raised and, of course, I will also raise the question of the arguments for the placement of energy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	Dr. Virant, only please remove the paper from the microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	I will also try to answer this question. [[...]] But I'd like to take my turn. I fully agree with Mr Lavrinc that this law or this legal amendment is devoted to significantly too much political attention. It is only a question of how the government, which is established and which has been established under the government law, will share responsibilities, how ministers will share responsibilities and how they will share resources within the government. By comparison, our system is, of course, unusual compared to other systems, so much so that the government has to ask Parliament about such organisational changes. This is unusual, in all other arrangements, except in two European countries, the laws do not determine either the number of ministries or the names of ministries or the work areas. Our constitution requires this, but I think that, in particular, because of the fact that we somehow get rid of the philosophies of the congregation system, it is right that we also try to interpret such a constitution as we have it by allowing the widest possible room of manoeuvre to be allowed by law. When government presidents form a government team and when they share responsibilities among ministers - and again comparatively - of course they also look at the personal affinities of individual candidates for ministers. In the final stage, the division of responsibility is primarily an agreement between the Prime Minister and individual ministers. It is clear that the Blue Policy in this agreement takes into account the existing organisational situation on the one hand and takes into account that any change in the government team also entails extensive organisational changes. In the structure of the government, this can only be a relatively small change, for example, instead of three ministers one. It is organizationally important to put three ministries in one. It's about the energy installation. The arguments mentioned here in the debate can, of course, be held by all in a row, but neither can they. With different arguments, energy could be placed in very different resources. On the one hand, it is an economic activity, so it is an economic area. On the other hand, the energy activity is linked to infrastructure, i.e. by interventions into space, so this is an area of space. Thirdly, the energy sector is essentially linked to the management of natural resources, natural resources, water, mineral resources and so on and is therefore linked to the environment. For one thing, the fundamental reasons for the transfer of energy from one sector to another are that the area of the Ministry of Economy is extremely extensive and in itself difficult and difficult to manage at the time of the merger of the three ministries. On the other hand, it is also possible to give a clear answer here. Of course, it was the final stage of the agreement between the Prime Minister and the Minister and the Minister, which is the case, and this is also perfectly logical and perfectly normal. I would also answer the question of rationalisation whether this law brings rationalisation or not. It was not said that this law brought about substantial rationalization. But I would say, at those points where things are changing, they are changing in the direction of rationalisation. In particular, if the three bodies in the Ministry of Environment and Space unite in one body, this means that the government has two political, i.e. two heads of the body in the composition who have the status of a political official, this means that there are also two functional salaries less, that of course also means the possibility that the joint service, i.e. the directing activity, the staff, the financial, the accounting and so on, will concentrate on one point instead of three, as it has been so far, and that the free human resources remaining there will be more appropriate allocation. It is not considered that there will be any surpluses for these reasons, but, of course, human resources can be properly distributed. It is not only these three areas, but it is all about the abolition of the seven organs in the composition and contrary to what has also been mentioned in the debate, Mr Barovic mentioned this: no new body is being established. This law does not establish any new body or organization in the composition, no new organizational form in the administration, but 9 does. The abolition of two government services, of course, is only the first step again. In a short time, all government services will have to be ventilated. It is necessary to know that a government service only makes sense when it provides direct organisational and technical support to the government or when it serves to the Prime Minister or the Minister without a portfolio, without a licence, to better manage the coordination tasks it has as Prime Minister or as a Minister without a licence or as a Minister - Counsellor under the Government Act. Other government services have no sense and no need. If I'm talking about a job for local self-government, it was a typical case. Over the years, their questionable status has been drawn. The government service is not an administrative authority, has no right to issue regulations, has no right to perform administrative tasks. And this job was somehow hanging in the air, maybe at least when she was headed by a minister without a department, when there was a clear political responsibility for local self-government. However, this was not the case, so the service was actually hanging in the air and had nothing to do with other segments of the administration, which must be linked to, in particular, the organisation and functioning of the public administration. While the work area of the local self-government service is being transferred to internal affairs, horizontal contact is being established In practice we have already established it, but it will in fact be established only when this organisational structure is transferred to the Ministry of Home Affairs. It was clear from the discussions that some copied too much of the content of these organizational changes. With these organisational changes, no work area is falling or no work area is emerging. So the tasks of the administration are not changed by this law, only institutionally they are placed differently. I'd like to re-announce the new law on administration. The proposal for a law on administration has already been tabled, and the previous government has submitted it. The fundamental concept, which is that more generally defining work areas and, in particular, reducing the number of organisational forms that the National Assembly imposes on the law, will also remain in the proposal for a law on administration, which the Government will now submit to the National Assembly. This means, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, that the government will then propose to you that you yourselves give up the fundamental decisions on the internal organisation of the executive power of the government on your own. And that only basic work areas are defined in the law, not as today, when we have very precise, detailed and unbalanced provisions of the law on the organisation and work of ministries and, of course, also the power to have the internal organisation of ministries governed by the Minister or the government itself. Not like today, when we have about 60 administrative authorities and organisations set up by law, that is to say in addition to 14 ministries, the National Assembly has established through this law and through the regional laws 60 organisational forms. Every time these organizational forms change, the debate, there's a mix-up, yeah, and now there's an area that's being eliminated, it's being given less attention, less weight and so on. If, for example, the Ministry of Environment and Space brings together three of its bodies, which are an internal organisational form of this Ministry, into one, of course, this is a matter that must be in the hands of the Minister of Field Affairs. And the answer to the obvious that the secretariat for legislation is clear to the law of shortcomings and so on. Most of the secretariat's comments went in the direction of a clearer definition of work areas. We have assessed that a large majority of these comments are such that it is already clear from the definition of the work area that this work area is also covered in the Ministry, but have nevertheless been prepared and adopted by amendments that address all these uncertainties. Since the debate also referred to other measures in the area of public administration reform, such as the anti-biocratic programme or more precisely, the programme of simplification of administrative procedures, of course it is not related to the proposed law, but it must be made clear that public administration reform or, rather, modernisation of the improvement of public administration, reform is already a somewhat contaminated concept, because it is forever and never concluded that, of course, these changes are not only changes at the legal level, but that things are also happening at the operational level. If I may have missed a question, I will be happy to answer it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Dr. Virant, thank you very much. I think the explanations have been very comprehensive, so I appreciate you want to discuss them? [[...]] First Mr. Joseph Bernick, then Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to ask. My question about the Slovenian language office was not answered, and therefore I ask for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you. I'm sorry. The right address for this issue would, however, be the Secretary-General of the Government, who is directly subordinated to his government services. According to my information, the Slovenian language office has not yet been established and this question is raised in this office as with other government services: Can such an office acting as a government service be improved or facilitated by such an office? That's the question. At the denationalisation office, for example, it turned out to be. I will also answer the question about the reasons for placing the Office for Denationalisation in the Ministry of Justice. Once again, the government service is important if it serves either organisational and technical support to the government or serves to coordinate various sectoral policies. Denationalisation is a typical example of a multi-sector project from the Ministry of Justice in charge of the law through agriculture, because a large part of denationalisation relates to agricultural land, through an internal affairs department covering the functioning of administrative units that mainly decide on these matters at the first stage. A lot of times it turns out that some project doesn't run because coordination is bad. In principle, the Prime Minister is responsible for policy coordination. However, of course, all projects are operationally never managed by any Prime Minister. Therefore, it is common for either the Prime Minister to form a so-called centre of government, either the Minister of Bezresor, or what we have in the Government Act, the Minister of Councillor in charge of this very task, to coordinate individual projects. Where that is the case, it makes sense that some organizational resources are also allocated to this minister without a portfolio or to the minister of the Council, saying that there is a government service to help him do so. The second option is, of course, that the government is in charge of one of the district ministers to coordinate the project. For example, the Minister of Justice, to coordinate the denationalization project. He is the one who is responsible not only for the work of his department in the field of denationalisation, but also for coordinating the work of other departments, so that, together with other ministers, he prepares a programme to occasionally call on other ministers to report to him on what they have done in their field. In this case, of course, he does not need a government service because within the Ministry he has the resources to help him. The Office for Denationalisation, the relocation of this office with the government in the judiciary simply means that the political responsibility for denationalisation as a project has been taken over by the Minister of Justice, and I think that the Office, which will continue to work in a relatively unchanged staffing structure, will support it. A similar question is raised with the language office. The general position towards this office would have been rather negative than positive for this very reason. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to coordinate policies related to the Slovenian language in order to give policy coordination to one minister, who, of course, within the Ministry, also adequately assists himself with his services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. You want an explanation? Here you go, Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you so much for explaining that there was no explanation. You gave me a very good legal answer, and you told me what all this looked like, but where this office got lost, and you didn't tell me. If the government proposes to reorganise its operations, you, too, should be aware of this, Mr Secretary of State. Please review this and let us know where this office is. Is it just a cosmetic thing to convince some of us that the government is interested in these things, or what? Twice Mr. Bandelj has spoken here about this matter, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] I asked him about this thing once. [[...]] Now he's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I think a marriage like this is probably necessary, and it's probably to support it. I agree with the Secretary of State's opinion that the government, each government has the right to set up an organisational scheme, such as it thinks is right, and through which it will be able to carry out its tasks and requirements. However, I think there is still a sentence to say about energy. In fact, energy is more important than some would like to give it meaning. The fact that a part of energy is moving between two ministries is a bit unusual. The clean administrative department, it is said, inspection of existing equipment will be in the Ministry of Environment and Space, if I understand correctly, but production from this area will be in the Ministry of Economic Activities or vice versa, after all. I think I said it right. So the inspection functions are going to double. For the same equipment we will have two offices or two inspectorates or double services, which may even contradictoryly ever issue decisions. But it's not that important after all. I want to say the following. Energy is not at the level of any office, neither by importance nor by structure, so it would be quite easy to move it from one ministry to another. In fact, the relocation of an important segment of the economy, such as energy, means that they will deal with themselves for about six months in order to be organisationally coordinated and accommodated, meaning that certain documents will be lost. It is not common in solid countries for this to happen. I agree that this may be in different ministries, but where it was placed somewhere, it probably remains there. That's what I wanted to say under number one. And secondly, it is the quality of our government's staffing. Actually, I'll talk in general, so maybe I won't use [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	Mr. Petan, I'm sorry! Repeat, reopen the same things. I am so sorry, this debate has already been heard in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is empty, people cannot listen to the same things a hundred times, and we are also stalling the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	Madam President, I think you have led the right way so far. If you think that some of us should not express our opinion, which will be slightly different, then say it! No problem, I'll finish or I won't pick up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	Mr. Petan, you were talking about personnel, which is not an object. You too have to stick to the agenda; many times today you have been allowed to say more than the matter of this law - if you are also right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Okay, I'm not going to argue anymore, I'm just going to tell you something: if someone wants to build a house, they have to lay the foundations first. And if I didn't talk about the roof, I'd like to start by saying the groundwork is that I'm going to get to the roof. If this is no longer possible in this House, we can talk without telling what the basis is, then all right, then tell me and I will finish. But I want to talk about this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	It's not a frame-up, it's not a matter of this law. You started on this government's weak staff. I'm sorry, I know the content of the law, so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Look, I'd have said by now. Okay, I'm not gonna talk anymore, and I'm not gonna take the floor, because I see that we don't have another word for it in this House. But that's all I'm gonna say. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	You have a word - excuse me to interrupt you - you have a word about the law that is on the agenda today, and the content, this is the organization of work [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	By the time you guys interrupted me, I'd be done, not just to say what I thought would be over. But I just wanted to say one word about human resources - if I may, of course, ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	If it's connected to the agenda, it's an organization. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	Of course it is!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	and the work area of ministries [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	But not about the poor staffing of the current government and so on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Look, I'd have finished a long time ago, but obviously it's no different. With us, we are adapting the organisational scheme of government services to staffing, to current staffing, that the Minister of Economy, in which energy was also located, has already stated a year ago that she is not interested in energy. Or in other words, it means that it is not controlled, but we have now moved it to another resort, where they obviously have such a minister who is also able to cover staff or has the full will to cover energy. That's what I was gonna say. This is unusual and abnormal for us to adapt the organisational scheme of the government or ministries to the current abilities, the human resources skills or the staffing structure of the government. I'll still support this marriage because I think it's real. But it's unusual to do what I said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina also spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Secretary for an explanation as well as a possible additional question. Indeed, I thank him very much for having responded correctly to the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister have agreed that this transfer will take place. Okay. They agreed on this for a reason, as my colleague has now said that it is obvious that the Minister does not want to do or master it or whatever. Where there are reasons, she knows best. But that is no reason now for the National Assembly to give them an agreement and accept it. It can't be. They can suggest this to us, but the National Assembly will, of course, decide if it is or is not appropriate. Many Members have now expressed concern that these matters will not be properly resolved or that certain solutions will be covered up, and that some coordination would have to be put on a different footing because of the necessary arrangements and some problems will have to be highlighted more clearly. Here, of course, I also wonder how it has been now, what Mr Petan has somehow taken away from me, the rationalisation in this area will certainly not be what the Secretary of State was talking about. As soon as this transfer takes place, the transfer of services, the transfer of documentation and all that, there will be no rationalisation here. However, if he thinks he will, he would ask to tell me if rationalisation would also be introduced on this transmission segment, or if savings would be made on when all of this will be tolerated. But the next thing is that these things are happening at a very crucial time. At a very crucial moment. See, the whole range of open issues is, from the sale of electricity surpluses on foreign markets, from the opening of the market, from a whole range of unresolved issues, only if I mention the Croatian part of electricity from the nuclear power plant and so on. A whole bunch of questions. No one's been treating this for a whole period, no one's solving it. And that saves the Undersecretary of State, as he knows and knows, of course with all these lobbyists around him and so on. In fact, I wonder who wants these transfers, who wants to have an impact on who wants to cover up all these facts, and if this transfer happens, it will take some time, and things will remain messy. And the country is losing a lot of money on this account. I know that, and I will also say that certain LDS officials are in charge of specific areas. One of them in charge of energy is Mr Golobic. In the event of solutions, any key, strategic ones, the directors of the power plant ask Mr Golobic to decide what has happened to him anywhere. That's how they're arranged there. So much so that you'll know a little bit about the information. In short, it is a very unfair treatment and resolution of individual professional issues. It is a matter of political solutions and it is also right for the National Assembly to assess professionally and politically that the energy sector or sector belongs to the economic sector and nowhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. As no one really wants to debate now, we are concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendment and the articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would you allow me, Mr. Kelemina, to vote on this decision alone? Can I help you? The procedural proposal has priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. In view of the important topics, as well as certain solutions that we have to take in the parliamentary group, I would ask for half an hour's leave of absence for consultation in the parliamentary group before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	We're not in the decision-making phase right now. Okay. Allow us to vote on this motion for a decision which I have announced that we will be on the amendments. 62 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against 2. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Then we will go to the debate on the individual articles and the amendments tabled. At the request and procedural proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, in order to be able to consult on all amendments submitted before the decision is taken, I interrupt the work of the National Assembly. We'll continue after lunch break, that's 2:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	47 cards are inserted in the voting devices. But since we're not separate personalities, we're not enough right now. That's why I'm inviting everyone to join us. Please take a look at the votes of our colleagues and fellow Members. There aren't as many people in the hall as there are cards. So please check the cards in the voting devices. Once again, please see if you can check with your fellow Members if their cards are filed, in case they are not in the Chamber. We will continue to vote by deciding on the amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries. Today, at 6 p.m., we will also conclude our work in the framework of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! Please insert the cards into the voting devices. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! [[51 present.]] I've calculated that there are enough of them to be present. I ask you again if you will look at your colleagues, that someone has no card, but he is not in the hall. Good. The National Assembly shall be concluded and may take decisions. Please take into consideration the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries. I shall begin by discussing the proposal for a new Article 1.a. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss him? A colleague or Minister of Mag will also participate in the debate on this agenda item. Janez Kopač and Prime Minister General Mirko Bandelj. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	On behalf of the proposer, I appeal to all Members and Members to support this amendment. What's this all about? There is a growing concern for the older generation in Europe and the world. If we want to follow this in our country as we have in the constitution written down that we are a social state, we believe that it is just an older generation - this shows all the data published in such and different media - that is increasingly threatened. Therefore, we believe that, as we have special government offices for other matters, it would be right to have an office for the elderly or the elderly, as we call them. Therefore, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Before I take the floor, I would like to ask that we allow peace in the debate room. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite the National Assembly to vote on the proposal for a new Article 1.a. I'm putting it to a vote. There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber, 24 of them voted in favour of the new 1st article and 12 against it. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a new Article 10a. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and decide on the proposal. There were 56 colleagues and colleagues present, 16 against, 25 against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 25.]] The proposal did not get the required majority. Two amendments have been tabled to Article 14 of the bill. I'm opening a debate on them. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one on the other side of our review. We're voting. There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present. 38 of them voted in favour of the first amendment to Article 14, 4 opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] The proposal was adopted. We'll decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present. The amendment under number 2 was voted by 35 colleagues and 10 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand he's been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 14 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 34 of them voted in favour of the text and 13 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Three amendments have been tabled for the 18th Article. Anybody want a word about them? Please. You're withdrawing? Could you please sign up and explain that?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	We're getting out of You've been written on the table straight to Article 18.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	So you're withdrawing the first amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	No, no, no. That's a third. That's not in the review.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	As a result, the first amendment is withdrawn. The first is withdrawn, so we are discussing the second and third. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we decide first on the amendment under order number 2 on the third page of the review. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 33 supported them, 12 opposed him. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 34 Members and Members voted in favour of the amendment under order number 2 and 11 opposed it. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the full text of the article. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The full text of the article was voted on by 35 Members and Members, 15 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the text has been adopted. Two amendments have been tabled in Article 20. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 at the end of the third page of the amendment review. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 35 Members and Members voted in favour and 11 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the proposal is supported. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 62 Members and Members are present. 30 voted in favour, 8 against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it this amendment has also received the required majority. I shall put the whole article to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 34 and 7 Members and Members were against the text in full for the text of the Article. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the text of the Article is fully adopted. By article 25 on page 4 of the review, we have an amendment that has been tabled, which has been withdrawn. The first amendment to Article 29 has also been withdrawn. There is therefore a possibility to discuss and decide on the other. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 38 Members and Members voted in favour of the amendment, with 9 against them. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I'm guessing the amendment got the required majority. We vote on the amended text of the article as a whole. 62 Members and Members are present. 34 votes in full for the text of the article, 12 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the text of the Article is fully adopted. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 30. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 30. Of the 64 Members and Members, 31 votes against for the amendment under order number 1, 15 against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 15.]] I'm guessing the amendment got the required majority. We are voting on the whole article. There are 64 Members and Members present. 33 Members and Members voted in full for the article and 11 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We also have an amendment to Article 31 on page 5 of our review. Anybody want to talk about him? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said in the general debate on the law, I will not support this amendment. I estimate that this amendment does not resolve the dilemma or concerns that have been recorded by the secretariat, namely, to resolve concerns, possible concerns about the transfer, in this case the field of energy, from one source to another. I don't go into the content of the core, so in this case of energy, there was a lot of talk about it, but into the concept itself. It is also stated in the amendment that this will resolve the concerns about the link between the amended tasks in ministries and the already established ministerial functions and responsibilities. That's not gonna hold. We will therefore, by a majority, decide that the criteria for so-called substantial changes, in which case the transfer of energy from one source to another, are valid. So if we support this amendment, we're going to find that energy is not at all a major change in some kind of resource. That's not true, that's not true. The general rule of law is not just a norm, in which case it is a norm [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Comrade Squirrel, just a moment. I think you have this right that no one bothers you when you talk. I ask all of us to respect this rule. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. This also means what will be the result of the vote. This is now my second performance on this subject. The first one was three months ago. I stress that the general rule of law is not only a norm, but also a practice, and then also a practice based on such a standard, and also a legal theory that critically evaluates it. I want to know how the legal theory will evaluate such inconsistencies and thus swallow up some correctness. The solution is not good, the solution is not in line with the truth. That's not what we're gonna do. Colleagues and colleagues, I suggest you do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Anyone else want a word? Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Of course, I also welcome you in our Chamber, finally, the Minister and also the Secretary-General. It is very nice of you to join us, and you will be able to answer a key question. Here, of course, the question arises again in Article 31, and if this law happens to be adopted in the form proposed, I would be very interested and would also ask for an answer if this is accepted or how you imagine, when you will also deal with these areas or to re-present and answer all the complex questions that we have asked so many times in the National Assembly. When will be arranged and given an objective deadline and when will you answer all these key questions, which we have discussed so much today and even in the past. If possible, let us know, and if you answer that, we may not be as strongly opposed to this law as we have been so far. If there is no answer, we will certainly object, at least personally to Article 31, to the amendment to Article 31 and then to the final adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	Minister, would you like to respond? Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Your Honor! First of all, an apology for the fact that the government was in possession of it in the morning and we couldn't be at both ends. Otherwise, of course, this law seems to us to be of great importance because it cures what has brought the novels of the government law, as you know, and it is necessary to regulate matters in the organisational field or the delimitation of the working areas of the ministries. In preparation, a new law on governance is already being introduced in inter-departmental coordination. One of the very important guidelines or legal definitions of this law is that the organisation and work areas of ministries will then be determined by the government. As you know, constitutional changes are also under way or a procedure for amending the Constitution is being initiated to allow greater flexibility in determining the organisation of the work of ministries or in determining their competences in the direction of a more prominent government management role. For the organisation of work and the sharing of powers and responsibilities is essentially some kind of management and it is only right that the executive body decides and not, if I borrow, shareholders in a shareholder society, which could be parallel to the national assembly. In short, we expect that with the amendment of the governance law, which is just before we present it to you in the debate, this area will be regulated in a much more flexible way. Then there will also be an opportunity for a more in-depth debate on what the reform of public administration brings in this area. I think it will make it easier to finally answer the many questions raised this morning in your debate. I would say this, however, to the discussion or concerns concerning Article 31. In fact, the principle of essence referred to by honourable Member Podobnik is a defining sign in case we do not have this transitional provision because the original text, as you probably know, did not contain this provision. This provision has come with additional amendments on the basis of the position of the secretariat for legislation. It was the Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly that defined these theoretical points of importance. Therefore, in the absence of this provision, it is necessary to assess whether a retrial procedure is necessary, or whether it is essential. The question is whether this change is essential or not. We should probably, for example, not have these transitional provisions, deal with this very issue of interpretation. In order to avoid such an interpretation problem, we have also decided, as the Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly has also suggested, to make a transitional provision which, for all cases of change in general, not only for energy, but for all new transfers of areas of competence, regulates the matter in the way it is regulated. It is said that the ministers who now occupy these functions continue to work. In this way, the special transitional provision solves this problem and we do not have to help ourselves with criteria of relevance or with other similar interpretation tools. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor first to my colleague, Mr Spodnik, behind him to my colleague, Mr Peterlet. I ask all politely that we try to discipline ourselves to this extent, that the speaker is not disturbed. There are three-quarters of all Members in the Chamber, and whenever someone starts to speak, they start to make noises, and the speaker gets upset, and I don't think that's appropriate. First, Comrade Podobnik, behind him, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, who, in his brief speech, tried to justify the purpose of this transitional provision and talked about the substance of the problem. I don't know, it's probably the last time I'm gonna talk about this subject, but, you know, the question is, what's sooner, an egg or a chicken? If we look closely at the argument, if the government refers to the opinion of the secretariat, then it must be made clear: only if it is assessed that it is not a very significant change - and this time the secretariat is talking about energy, not other issues - then the solution can be a transitional provision. First of all, it is the decision not to make a major change in this case. If we accept this criterion, if this is a criterion for a decision to solve this problem, then we are in a new conundrum. Ladies and gentlemen, energy from one sector to another is a major change - here is the problem. However, I see that Mr Minister is aware of him, and you have tried to find an argument for this solution. First, it is necessary to assess whether this is not an essential change. When you proposed the amendment, you acknowledged in fact that this was not a major change. Here's the estimate, in my opinion, unfortunately wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. A colleague of Peterle's has the floor. If there's a disturbance in the hall, I'm going to interrupt the debate, I have to say, because I don't think it's fair for those who speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you so much, Mr President, that you are so persistently addressing the normal culture of the Member States, which is necessary if we are to work normally. See, for what is happening in the field of energy in this proposed change in government action or the distribution of business between ministries, I see no systemic need, I see only an interesting need or an interesting explanation that this matter is moving somewhere, it is said to the Ministry, which should defend the space from the attackers, that energy is added, of course, that we know that it has its profound consequences in the space. And this thing, as I once warned you, doesn't go together. That's another thing. What's going on with the hydrometeorological institute, which has not had any serious discussions, that the agency is working on its nose and talking about breaking up this institution, and so on, I think it's a premature, unimaginable move that will probably have bad consequences. Third time. Rumor has it, Minister Bohinc spoke of flexibility, which will prove to be so, that I understood that after this, this area would be left to the government. So, every government will redecorate the whole picture as it pleases. Even if it comes - I don't know, by chance, because the current Prime Minister is reportedly reporting as a candidate for president of the country - it is said that the successor is coming, he won't like it, and he will send energy to health, let's say, why not. I reject this kind of flexibility, and I believe that it further deepens the kiss that goes beyond the laws or that leaves Parliament aside and that can be very damaging to us. So, this kind of concentration of power in the government, I don't think it deserves the support of the National Assembly. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	We are discussing the amendment to article 31 under order number one. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on it, i.e. to a decision on the amendment under order number one to article 31. We're voting. There were 67 colleagues and colleagues present, 24 against, 18 against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 18.]] The amendment got the required majority. We are voting on the whole article. 69 Members and Members are present. 32 of them voted in full for the article, 17 against them. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 17.]] I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 33. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the amendment under order number one to Article 33. Of the 69 colleagues present, 36 were in favour and 15 were in favour. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] Article 33 text received the necessary support. Two amendments have been tabled under Article 34. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the amendment under order number one on the sixth page of the review to Article 34. 69 colleagues and colleagues were present, 37 supported, 16 opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 16.]] He's got the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There were 70 colleagues and colleagues present, 23 against, 13 against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 13.]] The amendment is fully adopted. Now we are voting on the whole article. Between 70 colleagues present and their colleagues, they were against the text of Article 26 and 15. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 15.]] I find that the text of the Article is set. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present. It was 33, 16 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. It was 35, 14 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1a, 14, 18, 20, 29, 30, 31, 33 and 34 have been adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	The government will table an amendment to Article 2 to the one that introduced the office for the elderly, otherwise we will propose deleting this, these decisions from the second reading, and the amendment will be tabled in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would remind all my colleagues and colleagues, and I will briefly read what the European Social List says and also what binds our country in principle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	Sir, fellow Member, may I remind you that we are now deciding only to give a short break in the event of notification of the possibility of introducing amendments before we go to school laws. There is no substantive debate. So it was a proposal for an amendment. I'm deciding to take a 10-minute break and proceed at 3:20. Then we'll go to the school law package. I also ask the government representatives to come to the National Assembly so that they can continue their work smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	The clock's ticking, it's not saying anything. We can invite the government to submit its amendment so that we can proceed with the decision. If Members do not insist that it must be divided on a bench, then we can make decisions without it, but it must certainly be made in writing. Please take your seats. The amendment has been tabled. If the National Assembly accepts the opportunity to be presented orally by the Secretary-General or the competent minister, we will decide on it, otherwise we will wait for it to be divided into benches. But I don't think, given the discussion that's been going on about him, it won't be necessary if, of course, you agree. Please take your seats. Please place your cards in the voting apparatus and remove the cards from the voting devices of those colleagues who are not in the hall. Here I see that colleague of the Sponika is not at the moment, whether you are so kind and take the card from his voting machine. It is also, I think, with my colleague Visiak, so I ask my fellow Members from his parliamentary group if they are so kind as to take the card from the voting apparatus. Thank you very much. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 60 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and can continue its work. I ask the government representative to read the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. So, the government has tabled an amendment that reads: "A new article is added for Article 1, which reads: 'The text of Article 1, paragraph 2, is amended to read: '1. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is composed of: - the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Safety and Health at Work; [[and the second indent]] - an inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work." As is evident from this amendment, the Government proposes the deletion of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the elderly as a body within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. But the reasons are as follows. First, it's purely formal. If the law had been adopted in such a text, it would have been internally uncoordinated, as there is no provision in the law for the work of this new office. Second, there are substantive reasons for this. With this amendment to the law on the organisation and work of ministries, the government followed primarily the amendment of the government law. The second objective it pursued was to rationalise the work of the government, ministries and government services. From this point of view, the proposed deletion has already been proposed for many of these services and bodies. The Minister mentioned earlier that the government is preparing a new law on governance, which will redefine the work areas of the bodies and which will in particular contribute significantly to the rationalisation of the organisation of the government and its ministries in that it reduces the internal structure of individual ministries and further rationalises the composition and organisational units of individual ministries and services, thus also reducing the number of officials in these bodies, since today they are directors of organs, heads of bodies in the composition of the officials. However, I must also say, of course, that the government is in no way opposed to addressing the subject and questions of the elderly. On the contrary, this competence is undoubtedly present in the work area of the Ministry of Labour so far. In the new law on administration, which I have mentioned, this will be written even more explicitly. In addition, the government is in the newly established Social Security and Policy Council, and I think it is also somehow called that it has also determined that one of the work areas coordinated by this Council is also the area of the issues of the elderly. However, it is specifically the coordination of those tasks which are in one way or another dispersed between different ministries and government services. The problem of the elderly cannot be dealt with in just one place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are now entering a debate on the bill as a whole and on the proposal of this amendment. I think the secretariat has a comment on him, and then he wants the word of his colleague Kelemin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Mr. President, thank you very much. We would like to inform the assembly that this amendment will be considered an amendment to delete Article 1.a. What is supposed to be adopted is already the text of a valid law. This way we will consider this a deletion and leave the law in force in this sector in its current form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	Yeah. Is it clear to all Members and Members? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Can you further explain what that means? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to read to you the text of Article 2 of the Law on Ministries in force in point 1. It begins as follows: The ministries are: 1. Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It consists of the Office of Safety and Health at Work of the Republic of Slovenia and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work. This is already the current composition of this ministry. Therefore, anything that needs to be done should be deleted before the adoption of Article 1a, which amended this text by adding an Office for the Elderly. But he changed the whole text with that. This is essentially to be deleted now and, of course, it is now essential that the Office of the Elderly no longer exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	Good. This is the appropriateness of the text of the amendment. I invite the government to do so. In the meantime, as I say, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a full debate on the proposal for a law. My friend Kelemin wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to take this opportunity briefly and ask before a third-reading decision that the Minister or perhaps the Secretary-General may answer the question of when do you expect to be able to establish an appropriate organisation, first of all, in the Ministry or in the field of electricity or energy. Today we have found that the human resources area has now been sub-dimensionated. Indeed, all these important decisions and all transactions are made by the Under-Secretary of State, and we believe that it is essential to deal with all these situations and issues that we have debated so much, and we will need to put the Secretary of State in place and organise this service in the shortest possible time, so that it really works. I am very interested, and I would like to ask you to explain when this will happen, when you will succeed and when you will actually try to consolidate and do everything and eliminate those, perhaps even irregularities, or to establish an effective energy system. This has also been the most discussed today, and I would therefore ask that if we can answer this question that we will at least know roughly, not only in Parliament but also in the public interest, such as electricity companies and all others, which are dependent on the functioning of these services, when we can expect, first of all the organisational arrangements of this area, and then on the substantive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Anyone else would like to discuss the bill in its entirety, please? Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	Since we have heard the amendment of the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	I'm asking for peace. The procedural proposal is under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	We ask for an hour's rest for consultation in the parliamentary group, how we will vote or what else needs to be done. [[...]] Our point is why the committee had already accepted this and supported why it had not been exposed at the time and said that the amendment was not entirely in line. I ask for one hour's leave before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Your agreement, Comrade Kebric, would have ended the debate on the law in its entirety and then ordered a recess before the decision was taken. The Secretary-General of the Government will make a proposal - i.e. the Minister, which one of you? - Secretary General.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. First [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	Just a minute! [[Sound warning for peace in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	First, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	No, you don't have a word yet. Please, there's peace in the hall! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. First of all, if you allow me, I am correcting the amendment tabled by the government, exactly as the secretariat has proposed, so that there is no dilemma here. Second of all, only possible answer to Mr. Kelemini. Already, the law has clearly defined who is responsible for energy. This was within the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Economy also performed all tasks in this regard normally. Today, among other things, the government has adopted a series of regulations that release energy markets, including energy consensus, regulations and so on. So there were no, I would say, delays from the point of view of the ministry's and the government's administrative tasks in the field of energy. When this law is enforced, of course, it passes this area to the Ministry of Environment and Space, and from then on it will also be adequately staffed, so that it is not afraid that this area will not function normally in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. My friend Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	I have a procedural proposal if my colleagues in DeSUS agree that the point should be terminated within an hour. At that time, we deal with other matters for them to consult, and then in an hour we conclude the point if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	Let me get this straight. First time. There is no doubt that if a parliamentary group requests an hour off, it also has this right. Another time. I think that it is the interest of the National Assembly, including the DeSUS Group, to address the school law package and that this proposal of yours would not affect this decision today, because at 6 p.m. we will stop the work. I propose that we conclude the general debate on this law, which is now on the agenda. At this time, the government will make the amendment as necessary and we will move on to other laws, while there will be enough time for consultation between those parliamentary groups that want it if you agree. Otherwise, if you insist on your proposal, I won't be able to do anything different than order an hour off. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	We agree that the point will end and that we will deal with this point tomorrow, or not tomorrow, just when it will be, at the next meeting or, I don't know, when. For we have the right to consult, but we agree that the debate is over, but we request an amendment in writing to the table so that we can read and that we can consult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	I will end this agenda item if no one wants to discuss it anymore, because I will conclude the debate before then, before I do, I will give the floor to my colleague Kelemini and others who want to, then I will break the point. We will move on to a package of school laws and I propose that we decide on this today. Comrade Kelemin! Please, you have the floor. Comrade Kebrich, can you shut yourself out of the microphone? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm sorry, Secretary-General Mirko Bandelj, you spoke very quickly, perhaps I did not understand exactly, but I did not see if you would tell me whether it was necessary for this area to be covered by the Secretary of State, not only by the Undersecretary. That's what I'd like to know if this secretarial post is to be designated or not. In addition, I would like to believe that you are actually now, and during this period, these things have been settled and this area belonged to the Ministry of the Economy and that matters have been technically established as far as they have been organisationally established, but it has only proved to be, I think you have to admit this, but only a lot of questions and a lot of dilemmas that have not been answered, from the Chamber of Economics to the others affected. I think that enough of these data and arguments have been presented that everything did not work in the best order and with some appropriate staff force and some principled government attention to this area could certainly have been better in this area than it was now in the five months that this area was under the Ministry of Economy. I'd like that answer if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	Before I give my word to the government, I ask whether any of the Members and Members would like to discuss the law in full and the amendment tabled in the third reading. [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to the Secretary-General of the Government. Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The issue of the staff force, the secretaries of state, other officials and workers who will carry out and carry out energy tasks is of course not the subject of this law and cannot be regulated by this law. After all, this is also a first-hand assessment by the Minister responsible for the area of how he will team up energy operators. No regulation states that this area must be covered at the summit with the Secretary of State. However, I am sure that if this law is passed, Minister Kopač will propose very quickly to the Secretary of State for this area, but, as we say, this is actually the responsibility of his judgment and then the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the law as a whole and on the amendment tabled. I'm adjourning this debate for an hour. We will continue it when we conclude the debate on the three laws tabled or in the course of this debate, if the amendment of the government is ready for decision. Please, my friend Anderlich has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	I fear that this will lead us to a solution that will not lead us today to a vote on this law. Mr Kebrič and the DeSUS Group of Members made it clear that they would like to take an hour off before the decision is taken. Of course, it's not the same. I believe it is, and I'm here to make those three school laws work. Of course, I am also convinced that this law needs to be completed. This proposal, which you have now made, means that in one hour, on the proposal of the DeSUS Group of Members, we will have a one-hour break. And that means we won't do it at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	That wasn't my suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u150	Yeah, but business can't explain it like they have that right. If they take advantage of it, and as Mr. Kebric says he will take advantage of it, then of course it is better to take a break now, but not in an hour, another hour's break.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u151	Let's fix the misunderstanding. I have proposed such a proposal in order to give enough time on the one hand to consult in the parliamentary group, while, of course, continuing school legislation. If DeSUS, the DeSUS Group insists on having one hour in any case, then I would give it now. Is that what you want? That's what I asked you. Do you insist on that? One hour's rest. Then it is not possible to act differently than to give an hour’s rest. At 4:40 p.m., we resume our session.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u152	Please return from the office to the main meeting hall. We will continue to decide on the amendment to Article 1a of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and work of ministries. I'm asking the government if it has tabled a new amendment, a new text? Minister? Please check with your fellow Members that they have not accidentally left their cards in the voting machine. The Government has therefore revised or drafted a new amendment to Article 1a in accordance with the advice of our secretariat. The monitor says there's 47 of us. That's not gonna hold. Please check with your colleagues and colleagues for the voting device. We still have until the end of the fourth session. With regard to the time of the beginning, the National Assembly has indeed greatly corrected its reference, so that we can be satisfied. I'm detecting a presence in the hall! [[46 present.]] The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We concluded the general debate in the third reading and the debate on the amendment tabled in Article 1.a. The text of the amendment shall read: "Article 1a is deleted." The DeSUS delegation requested a one-hour committee and I am giving the leader of the delegation the opportunity to tell us what they have decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u153	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We have used time to consult both in the parliamentary group and beyond, and we have found a solution in the near future. We believe that the matter, as elsewhere in the world, will be well resolved in perfection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. I propose that we also decide on the amendment by vote. The amendment to Article 1a to delete shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present. 32 voted in favour, 4 opposed. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Is the law in harmony? The Secretariat shall have no comments. On the basis of paragraph 3, we are voting on the law as a whole. [[...]] I am putting the law to a full vote. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 36 votes in favour and 6 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before that, we have a proposal for an additional decision, I apologize, to the proposal for a law. On behalf of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, colleague Janez Podobnik submitted a proposal for an additional decision. Does anyone in this parliamentary group want a word? [[Nobody.]] Do colleagues and colleagues have this proposal for an additional decision before them? They do. Can we make a decision about him? Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the proposal for an additional decision to the vote. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 22 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The additional decision proposed by the Committee is as follows. The National Assembly authorises the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs to remedy the legal technical shortcomings of the legal text in the final edition. Anyone want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 28 votes in favour, no one objecting to the proposal. [[The vote was 28.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Minister shall also be deemed not to be allowed to use his cell in the Chamber. I hereby conclude this agenda item. As agreed, I'm moving on to 32. Period of the day - First draft of the Law on Amendments to the Basic School Act. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We are moving to a new, 32nd point, to the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the primary school law. The draft law was tabled by Mr Franz Puksič, a fellow Member of Parliament, for consideration by the assembly. You're going to act as a proponent? Just a moment, you'll get the word later. There is no law-maker. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. The President, Comrade Moge, you have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u155	Dear Members and Members! The Committee examined the law introduced in 1997. In the introductory explanation, Mr Puksic, a fellow Member, presented the essential objectives pursued by this law. These are in particular the abolition of national skills checks at the end of the Triad, the increased role and importance of teachers in the first grade of primary school, the extension of the nine-year period for the introduction of a nine-year-old, the partial transfer of powers from the Ministry to the National Assembly and the introduction of an additional entry condition. At the time of the Committee's consideration, the Secretariat and the Government pointed out that such a law had a significant impact on the concept of primary school, which had been enacted by law, which was adopted in 1994. At the same time, the government has also warned that it has introduced a law that solves these dilemmas in such a way that the basic law is also brought into line with what can be done and also solves problems that the first law has not solved. After a boisterous debate [[In the report, you have an indication of what was said in this debate, almost 20 Members attended this debate.]] the committee did not adopt the conclusion that the law was the appropriate basis for the second reading. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that this law be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do government representatives want a word? Mr. Secretary of State? Please, you have a word and an opportunity to perform in front of the speaker's stage. Then they will be given the word representatives of the parliamentary groups - we have one application, will anyone else? [[Yeah.]] - then the Members and Members. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The government notes that the proposal is known to have been prepared before the introduction of the nine-year primary school. One of the objectives of the law is therefore already unfulfilled, and at least some of the others can be illuminated on the basis of the experience gained in the implementation of the programme so far. In addition, the government itself has proposed to the National Assembly its law amending the Basic School Act, which, inter alia, achieves its objective in the proposal of a group of Members, which is also acceptable to the government. Allow me to summarize the Government's opinion briefly on the objectives of the Group of Members. The abolition of national skills checks is unacceptable at the end of periods and the abolition of mandatory final checks is from a conceptual point of view, as it constitutes an essential part of the reform of primary education in the concept of reform of the whole system of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia. We urgently need data on final checks and mid-term checks as feedback to pupils, parents, and not least to the government, contractors and the country on the effectiveness of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia, which we now do not have. The compulsory inclusion of teachers in the educational work in the first grade of primary school is, in other words, already achieved. In the nine-year primary school programmes introduced so far, as I am aware, in all classes where there is another person besides the teacher, she is a teacher. However, we ourselves thought to make this more firm in the law, and we are also taking this into account in our proposal. The extension of the introduction of a new nine-year primary school for one year, i.e. the start of the school year 2000/2001, has already saved time. It is unacceptable, however, to extend the deadline for the introduction of a new primary school from three to six years compulsory for all children with the school year 2006/2007, since the Government's proposal already takes ten years to double the system, i.e. from the start of the nine-year primary school to the end of the eight-year primary school system, we need now ten years, and then, as proposed, a double system would last for 13 years, or from the beginning of the implementation of the 16-year law, which we also find unacceptable. The introduction of an additional condition in the entry, which ensures that school enrolment will not be compromised in the place where new nine-year primary schools are not yet being implemented, is ensured by the authorisation measure for schools entering this process in the progressive introduction of the nine-year primary school, where it is not possible to ensure that parents are entitled to enter the eight-year primary school. If they do not want to enroll in a nine-year primary school, we guarantee by issuing permits or by not issuing permits to a school where this right cannot be exercised. The transfer of competence, the identification, the fulfilment of the conditions for the authorisation of the implementation of the new programme to the National Assembly, also seems unacceptable to us because the procedures would be too long-term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I now give my word to the Group of Members. First of all, the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please, the LDS Group of Members, the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, has applied. Please, first of all, colleague Tsukati on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u159	Respectable. The Basic School Act introduced a number of negative elements into education by external examination of knowledge. I would not list these things, which you actually know very well and which have been highlighted by the profession several times, not least on the round tables and at various appropriate levels. Under this law, at the end of the third class, the national test of knowledge was intended to cover two subjects and, at the end of the sixth class, three subjects and five items at the end of the last third period. This not only puts our education on the table in the sense that it is actually made out of pedagogical disciplines of a madman and in fact only builds up knowledge and puts emphasis on and only evaluates child's work and child's achievements on material, quantitative knowledge and neglects all other extremely important elements and thus introduces some discrimination between children, but also from a national point of view, because it actually allows only a certain structure with a strong memory ability, even though with little logical ability to process data and usability for life, it only gives such a group the opportunity for school's success to continue. You all know that. The blame that has occurred with this law is that we want to alleviate or eliminate it. The explanation has also been highlighted many times, it has been written, this thing is still current, although it has been four years since it was submitted. So, departure at the elementary school of famous knowledge check. Second question of the tutors. I am pleased that it has been found that, in fact, teachers, if they were previously able to manage and run a small school that was praised and rated as quality, are also now able to participate in the first class of a nine-year-old. If that is the case, why not also legalize it as proposed. Although the proposal is announced, the government's proposal to amend the primary school law, which in some ways sums up these requirements, but I think or our parliamentary group believes that this proposal is still a good basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Germič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy, followed by her colleague Potrata, on the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Comrade Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State. I would like to state the position of the Liberal Democracy Group, which will not support this proposal for a law amending the primary school law with the solutions proposed. I'd like to try to further substantiate the reasons why not. For the first time, it has also been pointed out that since the introduction of this amendment law, the time dimension has already brought some solutions to the individual amendments to the law. At the same time, I would like to define in particular up to two key amendments to this law, as has already been said here, this is until the provisions on national knowledge verification are abolished at the end of all three evaluation periods and, of course, the shift in the introduction and extension of the deadline for its introduction. If I focus first on the knowledge check at the end of the triad. We are of the view that such verification is certainly necessary. Of course, it needs to be understood from a positive perspective and understood as the necessary feedback to be received by both teachers, schools, parents to verify the achievement of the objectives set and to verify the achievement and comparison of the knowledge standards outlined. This is the fundamental argument that we believe is necessary to preserve the verification of knowledge. It must be said that these checks do not affect the assessment and in this way also reduce the pressure of so much talk. The argument is also that these comparisons are made by comparisons between schools. Of course, it is desirable not to create a big difference between schools, which in the past was sometimes a big question. The beginning shift, I think, is irrelevant, because the introduction of a nine-year-old has already turned. However, I would like to justify the delay or extension of the deadline. The results of the ongoing monitoring show that there is a significantly higher degree of motivation in schools with a nine-year-old, both on the part of teachers and students, as the share of teamwork, ways and methods of solving problems, laboratory work and field work is increasing. There is a higher level of cross-cutting and a tendency to target the planning and implementation of problematic learning. This also needs to be clearly linked to the additions to this law, which talk about additional entry conditions, because it is impossible to agree to an increase in the differences and spacing in the introduction, which would also mean administrative ban on pupils and parents, so that in a school environment where there are schools that have a nine-year-old in place and those that would not, of course, be able to enroll their children in a nine-year-old programme. The role of first-class teachers and the transfer of certain competences from the Ministry to the National Assembly has already been discussed here. On the basis of the reasons given, the LDS Group will not support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Comrade Germich. The word is from a colleague of Majda Potter's. It will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I ask whether any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State! The proposed law amending the Law on Primary Schools was introduced at a time when the results of monitoring of introduced novelties in primary education related to a nine-year-old were not yet available. Therefore, the drafters refer to public debates and debates, most often related to the school year and the final examination of knowledge, or even mandatory verification at the end of each three years. In doing so, the standardised external examination of knowledge is seen as a reason for narrowing primary education objectives to only educational ones. It should also increase stress for students and students, as well as for their parents. However, the objectives of group external knowledge checks are primarily to provide basic knowledge standards applicable to all primary schools and primary schools and are necessary for the continuation of education in different secondary schools. They also ensure equality when entering high school. At the same time, they also provide feedback to parents and students on what class evaluation means in a particular case, compared with the assessment achieved in the external test of knowledge. Such verification shall also not exclusivity or exclusion of any other form available to the teacher during the year. Finally, teachers and teachers can help to evaluate their own performance, but they do not destroy their work and their assessments. The proposed abolition of the provisions on national knowledge checks at the end of the first and second years and the abolition of compulsory final knowledge checks constitute a change in the concept of the primary school, with which the Joint List Group does not agree. It also seems more appropriate that the State in the budget provides the resources necessary to meet the conditions for the introduction of a nine-year-old in all environments where they wish to introduce her than to extend the time for her introduction into all primary schools. As the government has also drawn up a proposal for amendments to the primary school law, the Joint Group of Social Democrats will decide in the same way as the mother's labour body has decided, and will not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views? I guess not. I do not have written statements from Members, so I limit everyone who will apply for a post to a five-minute debate. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: "The proposal for a law amending the law on primary school, the first reading, is not adopted." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on this proposal. There are 58 Members and Members present. 38 votes in favour, 8 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The legislative procedure on the bill is thus concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. Period of the Day - First draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law on High Schools. The draft law was tabled by Ambassador Franz Puksič. There is no colleague Pukšič as the proposer. I ask, does the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sports want a word? [[He does.]] Chairman of the committee, colleague Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u165	Mr. President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members. This marriage is short. It's got three articles. Article 1 states that the first two years of the vocational school programme may also be carried out by a technical and professional school if it fulfils the staffing and material conditions laid down in the programme. Which would mean that, in terms of targeted education, they would have made it possible in the first and second years of education, and then in the third year, there would have been a deference of who would have gone to university and who would have gone to a high-level vocational study. However, as the law was introduced, the law on changes and additions to the law on higher education had also been passed, allowing the law to continue its university studies with a professional degree. Because of this and because of what is written in the Committee's report, the Committee proposes, as in the law, that this law also rejects the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Does the secretariat have any comments? [[No, it's not.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr. Zorman. You have the floor. I'm asking everyone else for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't have any important supplements. Since the consideration of the proposal for a law in the Home Committee, we have also received confirmation from practice that the path afforded by amending the law on higher education has opened up quite a wide range of possibilities for transition from secondary vocational schools to a number of university studies, which is confirmed by the validity of the decision of the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I ask, do they wish to present their views on the Group of Members? [[Yeah.]] Mr Cukjat will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, colleague Germić on behalf of the LDS Group of Members immediately after him. You have the floor, mate Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u169	With regard to the basic conclusion, it is probably not a dilemma that the solution transmitted by the Law on High Schools was that it was no longer possible for certain high school organisations to come to college or that the doors were closed to these young people. That's an indisputable fact. Now we all find out that there was a big mistake. Not only has it been impossible for young people to choose the right course of life later, since many are only late to meet their minds in one way or another, but it is also because the technical direction of college has actually been poor in terms of the arrival of freshmen. However, I must say that the university law has not opened the door as expected. Even under this law, however, it is expected, realistically, that every student who finishes an inadequate secondary school, even so successfully, actually loses one year. That makes a lot of sense. With a slight change, however, these young people, who have otherwise come from elementary school to inadequate secondary school, would still be allowed a smooth shift in the middle, which is said after the 2nd year of secondary school, which would certainly give them back at least some of this freedom in decision-making that is so important to young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Mr Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group and then no other group has expressed its wish to discuss it. You have the floor, Comrade Germich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u171	Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Law on High Schools rightly identified the problem created by the adoption of legislation in 1996, where the transition to colleges to students from secondary technical schools was somehow prevented by the introduction of a vocational degree in vocational and secondary technical education. We also understand the importance of ensuring that the education system is basically designed to allow for openness, flexibility and transition. Of course, we would like to draw the attention of the parliamentary group to the dilemmas which, of course, led to the adoption of legislation in 1996. This is, of course, a frequently expressed dilemma about whether to build an educational system by simultaneously educating for the profession and at the same time for education by continuing in colleges under university programmes. Experience has shown that such an approach created a large osipism, sometimes up to 25%. On this basis, of course, universities introduced acceptance examinations at the university with the argument that there was too little standard of knowledge in secondary schools. On this basis, the professional decision clearly showed that such an education was not acceptable and, of course, by adopting legislation in 1996, it divided vocational and technical education by introducing a vocational diploma - as the completion of education, and of course general education with a graduation. The government itself has adopted a law amending the law on higher education, which has pointed out this stiffness in transition, and, of course, by introducing the fifth examination unit, has allowed vertical transition from secondary technical and professional schools to colleges, i.e. the university programme. This means that, of course, this verticality is enabled by the introduction of this fifth unit. The proposed solution, of course proposed by this amendment, shows a weakness, i.e. a weakness in the sense that the change that talks about transition criteria from secondary technical and professional schools to the 3rd year of vocational high school is linked to student performance, i.e. with a very good or excellent success in 20% on the comparability of the programme. Here we must note that if such a decision had been taken, of course, it would have been very discriminatory for those students for whom there are no professional high schools. This means that, of course, in this case, this population would be excluded from this option, because in this case it would not be able to meet the conditions of comparability in at least 20%. Therefore, in the Group of Liberal Democracy, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on High Schools, because we believe that the solution adopted in the amendment to the Higher Education Act, which allows transition to university studies, is appropriate and allows those students who will be successful to carry out the fifth examination unit. This way we will not burden the entire generation, which will be included in secondary vocational education, with additional knowledge. The liberal democracy of these changes will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you, Madam President. According to the Slovenian National Party, a successful family is a condition for a successful society. A successful family, however, can only somehow succeed in a friendly society, a friendly society, both to minors and to persons, such as older age groups. It follows that we let go of at least a certain period of life when people can change their minds from year to year. It is our belief that it is very negative to cement a particular youth’s decision in his early youth for these or other reasons. Let's give him the chance to change after a certain year. There are security conditions such as school success. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we support and make sense of the proposal for a law. Meaningful and friendly to society, which I think should be the foundation of all the parliamentary groups represented in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. In this proposal, amendments to the law have been similar to those of the previous one, with a number of changes in the legislation since the introduction so far. Some other paths for vertical transition are also enabled. Therefore, the Joint List Group will act in the same way as it did in the previous vote. It will support the decision of the parent's working body. However, we also believe that with the changes and interventions themselves, we cannot often influence professional decisions and the admission of young people to secondary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it on behalf of the groups of Members, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has applied in writing, the debate on possible debates is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: "The proposal for a law amending the law on high school, first reading, is not adopted." Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 39 to 8. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The legislative procedure on the bill is thus concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPORT AND AMENDMENT LAW ON ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION. The draft law was tabled by Member Franz Puksič, who is currently absent. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u177	This time, too, I will be very brief because you have received the report. Without discussion, the Committee rejected the reduced procedure and, in a very short debate, also proposed to the National Assembly that it should not adopt a proposal for a law on supplementing and amending the law on financing and organising education and education. At that time, the proposal to appoint a director as the founder of a public education institution, which means that the principal of the primary school would be appointed by the local community, was not acceptable so far, as the supervisory role of the minister over the correctness of the procedures and the appointment of directors is still necessary. However, the existing law is so defective - the law now in force - that it prevents the appointment of directors if they have higher or secondary education. The government has introduced a new law that solves this and other dilemmas in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. From the Government's point of view, I stress only the supervisory function that has already been decided by the Committee. In practice, it has also been confirmed that this is still necessary. It happens that, in the opinion of the local community, the saints of schools also take illegal decisions and unlawfully appoint the administrators, which is to be found only after the Minister’s opinion or consent has been given. We therefore believe that further arrangements are needed for the final appointment of the Director to be decided by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Cuckoo, please! Mr Tsukati, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u181	Your Honor! Being the founder of an institution is a serious matter. In the field of education alone, we have this dilemma, in fact, the illogicalness of being the responsible founder of the congregation, but there is no word in the appointment of a director, a director, or anything like that. In all other areas, such as health care, where the congregation is also responsible for the organization of basic health care, consent is given by the congregation according to the law on institutions and things run normally. Only here is the contradiction that is plagued by the logic of common sense. If the institution is such that it is the founder of a state, then it certainly - as is the case with hospitals - gives consent to the appointment of a director, a director and a similar state, a ministry. In this case, in the case of the founder of the municipality, we propose that this be normalised and not as Mr Moze said that the municipality appoints or the local community, but that the local community should give its consent on this proposal. We believe that this is a normalisation of relations and that this is regulated in the way that it actually falls within the normal duties and responsibilities of the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe I'll be a little outside the scope of this law. However, I think it is necessary to say exactly what is happening in Slovenian society today. Today, Drnovskov's LDS forced all other parties to agree to the Vatican Agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u184	Mr. Jelinčič, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u185	Why am I talking about education and education? That is why, Madam Vice-President, in this agreement, the Slovenian State will have to finance an unlimited number of church schools, educational institutions, universities [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u186	Mr. Jelinčič, first warning. That's not on the agenda. Please stick to the agenda. On behalf of the parliamentary group, you have made a statement to present your position on the Act on Supplements and Amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education of the Applicant, Franz Pukšič. First warning, Mr. Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I understand that Mr Drnovšek does not allow you or asks you to prevent what anyone would like to say. However, I am talking about the financing of education, which is financed by the State in 80%. In time, we will have only church schools and church institutions, kindergartens and the like in Slovenia. The state will finance this with 80% and in time lay schools will be no more, and in this case amendments or amendments to the law on certain laws, as far as these issues are concerned, will not be necessary or appropriate. I believe that in some segments the proposed law makes sense. Not all of them, I'm sure. In principle, the Slovenian National Party considers that this law must be supported and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Ljubo Germič and then Mrs Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the proposed solutions in the Liberal Democracy Group. I'd like to make only three arguments. Firstly, the State is the one who, in primary schools or in those areas where the founder is a local community, assumes more than or about 80% of all financial and material obligations. Secondly, it adopts laws and regulations which are binding and, of course, has the task of monitoring and analysing work in these educational institutions. On this basis, we believe that the regulation currently in force is correct and we will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. The words of the United Nations will not support the proposed law. It is simply that when appointing a management worker, who is not only affected by the organisational management of a public institution, he is also a pedagogical one, it is said that a professional head of an institution, a public institution, must take precedence over such appointment. The role of Minister in the appointment is therefore essential. However, consideration should also be given to all those solutions that would increase the influence of the profession on the appointment of the director, but not increase the role of the political community, which in this case is certainly the case of the municipal council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give my word to my colleagues and colleagues. No one wants to discuss it. I'm sorry, buddy Pec. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, as the leader of the parliamentary group said, we will support the bill. It seems to us that if Slovenia is already establishing local communities, that if Slovenia already gives certain powers and tasks to these local communities, it must also hold on to this. The worst thing that can happen to us is what we're playing with today. To give local communities the seeming power of decision. A seemingly powerful decision-making power that is nowhere else known than in community services. By means of the proposal for a law by which the proposer wishes, I quote, "to ensure the role of the local community in the appointment and discharge of the director of kindergarten or school and in the appointment and discharge of the director of the public educational institution whose founder is the local community". We are convinced that if they already have the right to establish, which is right and necessary, the power of appointment should also be allocated to those congregations in which this so-called service is provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I'd like to start with a small replica of Mrs. Trotters. Now it turns out that only the Minister of Education and no one else at the local level can evaluate the teaching work. That's another element of centralism we've had enough, to put it mildly. I can say from experience that we had a case in the Ajdovšina that the congregation council could give only one opinion as director, which I find very underestimating, and all of us Ajdov people knew the director more than those who live elsewhere. Schoolmates also knew their principal, and they were teachers, and they also consulted him, and they all said yes, and what do we want if it was the law. I will absolutely support this, so I am joining Mr Tsukati, who has basically already said everything. So I can be a little shorter now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. My colleague, would you like a word? Please. It's a replica. It's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u197	Dear fellow Member, my performance on behalf of the Group of Members was very short, so that you may have overlooked that I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. This performance does not normally allow replication, however. If you've listened to me, you've heard that I also said that you need to look for those paths that will introduce professional criteria for appointment, not political ones. However, I did not just assign these to the Minister because it is known who is monitoring the situation in schools, not only the Minister, but also the special institutions involved in monitoring and research in the field of education. The opinion of such institutions should probably be taken into account in addition to the opinion of the collective in which the director operates and in addition to the opinion of the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u198	Before I put my word forward, I will ask for peace again. First my colleague Sok, then my colleague Moga.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Well, I guess we can replicate Mrs. Potrates now that she's signed up for another word. I would like to say that we had already had such a system when congregational appointments were made. I don't know exactly which year that changed, I think in 1993. Certainly not when Demos won the election. At that time, congregation meetings set up or agreed to appoint principals of primary schools, and in some congregations officials with whom people were dissatisfied were also replaced. When that happened, it was a political decision that the local communities no longer had this right but that only the minister could carry out the appointment, while the municipal assemblies - now called the municipal councils - allowed them the right to give their opinion, of course as non-binding opinions. However, I would like to refer to Mrs Patrati mainly because she said that the municipal saints were political authorities and the minister was professional. I would like to say that the Minister is also a political body and that the Minister is mainly likely to decide on political criteria. So I don't know, I don't know much about our school, where after 1996 there would be some changes at the principal's place. However, if a school group had already voted untrustworthy, and the municipal council, for example, did not give a positive opinion, and then there was the right one, I would say, halos and things had to go the old way. At least for our congregation, I can say that most of the directors are from the former system, and most of them were also very active members of the Communist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much. A colleague of Moge, a colleague of Tsukati and a colleague of Lavrinc, has the floor. Please, Comrade Moge, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u201	I'll be very brief. For the first time, he who debates like my colleagues puts in no local community. I was a longtime principal, and I experienced this thing on my skin. I also attended last week's meeting of all primary school administrators in Slovenia, to whom this law applies, and I also said what the committee had decided and they applauded me. The principals of primary schools do not want to be left to the mercy and indignation of local councillors regarding their consent. Look, let's say the director of the National Veterinary Institute won't go through as much torture as the director has to go through. If he wants to be appointed principal, for the first time, he has to get a positive opinion from the entire teaching assembly, he has to get an opinion, and probably a positive one, the local community l do not know a minister who would oppose this opinion of the local community - then he must get the Minister's consent and then he must be elected in the world of the school. I don't know anyone, even the director of Radio-Television Ljubljana, who would go through this procedure through four mills. I, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respect the local community and think that all ministers as well, and that ministers have respected the views of the teaching assembly in their decisions - as far as I know, now in practice - as well as the opinion of the local community. For this reason, it seems to me today that there is no place to change the law only in this segment, but not at the same time with this law to solve what the law deals with, which is the status of directors in public institutions - that is, from primary school up to higher and higher schools. That's why I'm asking you not to try to convince ourselves here that the Minister is more valuable or that the local community is more valuable. I respect local communities, they form part of our system and they have their opinions in this system of appointment. If anyone thinks that the local community’s opinion means nothing in such a appointment, then he has an opinion either on the local community or on the minister to whom this national assembly is, say, or on the following national assemblies that gave him or elected him. That is why I think this debate in this sense, whether the Minister or the local community, is irrelevant at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor. Behind you, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u203	Your Honor! I would just add some elements, which may not, of course, affect the vote, but it is good to think about them. First. You're referring to someone in your profession, to a professional decision. You know, the principal isn't just a teacher, he's not just an expert, but he's also the one who has to worry that the roof doesn't leave, that the professors don't argue that the atmosphere at school is appropriate and similar. That's not the profession that's more important. As far as it is concerned, the law defines it very well and lays down, as it is said, very good and great requirements for the fulfilment of professional conditions. For this second element, however, it is funny that some director, who may be a good expert and a bad master, is truly a bad master in that the congregation is always making new and new costs, that the atmosphere is inadequate and similar. The congregation is responsible for all of this. The municipality, unfortunately so, so you wrote in the law and so there is local self-government in the whole system. And this congregation has no word. And I'll tell you, he doesn't have a word. Perhaps there are cases, or most, where the congregation’s opinion was somehow the same as that of the teaching congregation and things were running and things were uncomplicated. Where there are complications where there are problems, there are always contradictions, but there is a conflict between the opinions of the local community and the opinion of the Ministry. So this thing is not that simple, and I still think that the one responsible for primary school, in an organisational sense, is not talking about a professional sense; it is the same in health care, and he should also put the responsible head of the plant in order to make it work. I'm not gonna say, he's setting it up, but at least let him have a chance to agree. Even in the case of health homes, it is known that professional criteria are completely different. This is not the responsibility of the congregation. The professional level is regulated at national level. However, some institution in the congregation works as it should, but it seems to me that the congregation should have more words in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Comrade Lavrinc has the floor, followed by his colleague Moge and colleague Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u207	Last time I checked in. I'm going to eat the word again, as I said before, but I owe the replica only to my colleague. Mr. Cuckoo, look. Primary school is a public institution. The Public Institute is financed by the Public Institutions Act and those who adopt the financial plans that assess how the school worked and who also adopts or evaluates the analysis of the school’s functioning are the school’s world. In the school world, the local community has three members, while the minister has no member. These members of the school world are the ones who appoint this principal. If the congregation council that elects these members into this world has no influence on those who represent their interests in school, then that is sad enough. It seems to me that the system, as it is now set up, and if it is seriously implemented, has enough guards to ensure that the bad directors in these places are not appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u209	My objection to Dr. Sugar is going in the same direction as Mr. Mohet's. It is that the founder has the opportunity to influence everything that is going on at school, including the material and financial consequences for the founder through his representatives in the school world. Each congregation shall appoint its representatives. Of course, it is up to these representatives to represent the position of local communities in the school world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. I think we've come to a lot of ideological ground and it's pretty slippery. However, I think both the dilemmas that have arisen, whether the Minister is a more professional or local community, or political criteria or professional criteria. I don't think either one of them is real. No one must have thought so, but it must have gone a little emotional. We have probably all forgotten that decisive criterion or that one that has the exclusive right to decide whether to appoint a director or a director or a president of something is the owner. It is true that there is a slightly different issue in schools, and this could also be called the founder. In the opinion of one of the parliamentary groups, I only heard that the material criterion was mentioned. That is, the one who gives the most money, the one who has the exclusive right or the greatest right. That's my personal opinion. Anything else we can talk about. If they are municipalities, it is a true local community, it is not a political community, it is a local community, it is part of self-government, local self-government, state administration, and local self-government. Therefore, do not meddle directly with the political work of a sphere. The fact is that if we have given municipalities the status of founder, and this status cannot be realized in any other way than by providing financial resources for that part of which they are obliged to pay, we know that we do not, but for the rest of the part, then it is relatively irresponsible or unfair to this local community, because it has great obligations and few rights. These are the facts. We need to be aware of that. I will not go into this now, otherwise I will support this proposal, normally because it also comes from a fellow Member of our delegation. But I'm not going to overdo it. I'd like to remind you of something. I think it was the right approach when they talked about the institution's world. Your Honor, you probably all know the composition of the institution's world, three-partite. One third of the employees in the institution, one third of the parents and one third of the founder This is the congregation. At a unitary stake, I ask you nicely, how can you vote something, we probably know that here in the opposition, especially if you only have a third share. So you still have something to get. That's what you say. You can't even name a director. These are the facts. In addition, I should be allowed only two sentences to illustrate the absurdity of this, which is not the greatest absurdity here, but the greatest absurdity is in public institutions where [[Let's say]] the founder of the municipality and gives exclusive resources, but only has a third share in the decision-making process. This can't really be decided on anything, but it's up to others who don't even give a tolar. I know where the history of this is, but we'll have to talk about it in public institutions first, but I don't think there's a school here, and there's other public institutions, the founder of which is a municipality, and there's only a tripartite share, and there's only a demand for funding. But there's something else to comment on in schools. Although I would not comment on the composition of the board of the institution, I think that it is correct to some extent, but I think the founder is obviously lacking in rights. Now, whether it is an exclusive right to appoint a director or director, the final and most important one can also be discussed. I know the situation when it was exclusive and it also led to absurdity, but there were also many such inclinations, exclusively political ones, that we could then change the law in the way we changed it. So there was also a lot of seduction and, of course, there was a little bit too much excitement at the appointment, or at the non-name, or at the "single" or something like that. So it's not quite that simple to let the profession decide. In many ways, the profession has led us to such a situation that politics has to solve. We have huge situations like this, and last but not least, politics is not that simple a category, either this or this. After all, let me remind you that even our Parliament, which is composed solely on the political side, is nothing wrong and it is normal to do so. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - I will conclude immediately - we call it huge - see how many appointments we have in such or other institutions, funds, agencies and so on. That's what they say. Where's the profession? I don't have any comments if that's up to us, and that's right. We're not the last ones to appoint judges here. Do you think it would be better if the judges were appointed by their own judges? Probably not. It's probably the right approach. It's not that simple a separation between expertise and politics. So we should also deal with this a little bit with the brake. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I was a little longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-04-12-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. There are no further applications for discussion, so I conclude the debate. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the decision of the parent working body. It reads: "The proposal of the Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education shall not be adopted." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 62 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 42 votes in favour, 11 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the legislative procedure on the bill is thus concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we also conclude today's work and the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that we reopen 40. DOCTOR, THESE ARE LOVES AND NAMES. This is because today the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission held a meeting where it proposed to the National Assembly to consider a decision - a change to the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does anyone object to us doing this in the finals? [[Nobody.]] Does the rapporteur, the chairman of the commission, want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[They don't want a word.]] Since no one wants a word, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. We're voting. There are 62 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber, 48 of them voted in favour of such a decision, 1 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] Thus this proposal has been adopted and thus this item on the agenda. I propose that, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the items remaining on the agenda of this 4th session be postponed to the 5th meeting, which will begin on Tuesday 17.4. this year, namely 3, 14, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 35, 36 and 37. Anyone want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[Nobody.]] I propose that we also decide on the proposed decision. There are 61 colleagues and colleagues present, 43 colleagues and colleagues voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] In accordance with a decision or consultation at the College tomorrow, the National Assembly will not meet because there are two competent working bodies - these are the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I would like to thank everyone that we have done many points in this last week, during the third week of the fourth session, and we are moving fewer of them to the fifth session. Thus, we have made a great deal of effort in the coming months. Once again, thank you all for a nice and pleasant evening forward. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the fourth session.
