ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Bogomir Vnučec, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Roberto Battelli, Pavel Rupar, Bojan Kontič, Marko Diaci, Mirko Zamernik, Feri Horvat, Villa Trofenik, Andrej Fabjan, Franc Sušnik, Branko Janc, Jože Ašič, Jožef Školč for the beginning of the session, Dorian Marsič, Jože Kavtičnik and Milan Kopusar. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! Please kindly insert the cards. 36 of us are present, which does not guarantee our normal work. In a few seconds, we'll be able to recapture the presence, so I'm asking my colleagues who are still around to join us. We're going to rediscover the presence! Given that colleagues who attended the Internal Policy Committee are returning, we will wait a few more minutes and we will be able to re-examine our presence. If we do not now provide the necessary majority for the normal conclusion of the National Assembly, I will have to suspend the meeting in 10 minutes. We're rediscovering presence! There are 48 Members and Members of Parliament present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting and welcome them. Today's continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the hearing adjourned 4. Agenda items - Proposal for a Aviation Act and then in order of order. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we concluded on page 33 of the amendments to the proposal for an aviation law of 12.2.2001. I am putting an amendment to Article 89 into the debate and decision. The first amendment of the United List of Social Democrats Group has been withdrawn. The second is the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 89. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. In my debate and decision-making, I am merely giving a warning to the amendment to Article 90, which is the amendment of the United Nations Group's amendment. [[...]] That is why we are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 93, which is the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to Article 94, which is an amendment of the Government, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In the debate and decision-making I am putting an amendment to Article 95, which is an amendment of the government, and the committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 97, and the amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the Government's amendment to Article 98, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting the Government's amendment to Article 99, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We do not vote on the amendment to Article 101 because it was withdrawn. I am putting the second amendment to Article 101 into discussion and decision-making, this is an amendment of the government which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes, one against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to Article 102, which is the amendment of the Joint List Group of Members; the amendment is not supported by the Committee. Mr. Janko Weber wants to discuss it. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Article 102 speaks of the repeal of the operating authorisation of the airport. So it's about withdrawing the operating permit if there are shortcomings or irregularities, I'd say it's a bad thing to do. The third paragraph of this Article refers to the fact that the deadline for remedying irregularities is 48 hours or exceptionally that the Minister of Transport may extend that period to 7 days. This same law refers to the fact that, after the entry into force of this law, the airport manager must, for example, prepare all documentation within six months to obtain an operating permit, and a review of this documentation is still about six months. In short, it is a period of one year which this law provides for the regulation of procedures for obtaining a business permit. Therefore, our amendment is given in the sense that irregularities are corrected within the time limit set by the management or the competent inspector. For the Inspector and the Air Administration are certainly those operatives who monitor all developments at the airport and, of course, the Inspector's decision also always sets a deadline for remedying irregularities. I would also like to stress in particular that this concept of the law as we adopt it today is such that, of course, airport management is based on market principles, so that every operator will certainly have an interest in eliminating irregularities as soon as possible, because of the fact that transport is also open and, of course, all services that can be charged are also running. However, I think it would also be extremely unpleasant if we had to, for example, because there is some irregularity of such nature that it cannot be resolved within seven days, meet at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and amend the aviation law. For after seven days, if we read this article, there are no legal obstacles, let's say that the airport would not operate. We've decided that seven days is the time when everything has to be okay. In the event of a malfunction, then after seven daily legal obstacles, this airport would not operate. Such solutions are, of course, I think, nonlife, which are currently enshrined in the law. I propose that you support the amendment, which speaks of the deadline set by the administration or the competent inspector, being the one to be taken into account in order to remedy irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Government representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The bill does not support the proposed amendment by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, since it sought to protect air carriers and air passengers in particular by means of a legal provision as set out in Article 102, paragraph 3. In fact, if the airport stops for any reason, the damage caused by the airport cannot be used. They are also 1:4, in certain circumstances, 1:5 to the detriment of the air carrier. The damage to passengers cannot be determined precisely. However, we wanted to protect the carrier, we wanted to protect the passenger. The legal provision imposes, in effect, on the airport operator in order to provide adequate service services in order to provide adequate spare parts and spare systems so that the airport can be operational again within 48 hours or seven days when the cases are more difficult. I propose that the National Assembly - I also note that the Committee has not supported the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	So I'm replicating to the Secretary of State. The purpose of the airport operator is not to endanger either the air carrier or the passengers. Even less, the purpose of the aviation administration is not to endanger aviation or passengers, and also the air inspectorate is set up and functioning so that, of course, all these services are actually doing their job properly. As I have already said, each controller has a real interest in correcting irregularities as soon as possible. Surely, though, it is not intended to reveal today whether all irregularities are of such a nature that they can be eliminated within 48 hours or seven days. Especially if this is related to a business permit, it is virtually impossible, impossible. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why, for example, air traffic barriers following this point are Article 108 et seq., and you say that the decision to set up or remove obstacles is issued by the authority referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, or by an air inspector. So to remove obstacles that we all somehow imagine are physical obstacles, it is prescribed, I don't know, an air inspector's decision, although it would make sense to me, if you say, to remove the obstacles is really 48 hours and it's over. If there's nothing else you can do, you can take it away. In short, you remove the barrier. But here you went to the inspector's decision, and in the operating permit, correct the deficiencies, where a whole series of procedures need to be carried out, you can even make a certain material, and you went to 48 hours, which is essentially impossible. And we point to this flaw in fact, and the law will certainly be operational if the amendment is adopted, otherwise the problems will certainly be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 102. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 25. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 25.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting an amendment to Article 107 to the debate and to the decision-making process. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 42 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 108 for discussion and decision. The candidate is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia. The amendment committee does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Given that our parliamentary group has announced that it will not support the law, it will possibly support it if there is a national assembly or honourable Members and Members of the amendment tabled as a parliamentary group on the basis of an agreement of local communities bordering airports in our country. Well, this is already one amendment, which just assumes that the local community would have a certain impact on the issue of licences themselves, operating time or other permits. That is why I would ask you, honourable Members and Members, to support this amendment, because, of course, the echo of local communities is likely to be a good purpose or a positive decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 23. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting the Government's amendment to Article 112; the amendment committee is in favour. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 42 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting an amendment to Article 113 in the debate and decision making; this is the amendment of the SDS Group of Members; the amendment committee does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Well, Article 113, or the amendment of our parliamentary group, is equally designed on the basis of proposals from local communities. This is a clear starting point for local communities or citizens of Slovenia, given the promises of both the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the current Director of Brno Airport and other airports as well as the previous ones, to refer to the need to regulate certain compensations or so-called pensions under the Aviation Act. Well, local communities or in the former congregation were certainly hard to expect. Given that the law is under consideration, as I said, on this basis we have tabled an amendment clearly prescribing that the funds are collected in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and then one quarter of the fees from the previous year are indicated to the affected local communities. You are probably wondering, like some of the members of the parent labour force, of the infrastructure committee in the previous composition, how the local community will place or spend these funds on those citizens most affected by noise and, in short, certain environmental emissions. We will make it clear to the local communities that these funds will actually be allocated to those citizens, in short, to those citizens who are actually entitled to certain non-compliances or requests, and that they will in some way be clearly burdened by the system produced by local communities. So I think that, in all things, the calls made by both mayors, citizens, at the reception yesterday and even today, that only for God's sake should this amendment be a national assembly, or you, honourable Members and Members, accept it. Because, of course, clearly, as I said in the presentation of our Group, a civil initiative is being prepared from the affected local communities, which will in any way seek to achieve this, which is now in our proposal of the amendment itself. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, please accept this amendment from our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Brace applied for the debate. Just a minute. Before reading the amendment, I forgot to add that the government agrees with the proposed amendment. That's what it says. Mr. Brace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This amendment is very interesting. It is based on its content, but it is interesting because the government agrees with it. What's interesting is that the government agrees with our amendment and the committee doesn't. Which suggests that there is often a vote in this House, depending on where someone is sitting, rather than on the content itself. In such a way that I would ask the Chairman of the Committee or the competent rapporteur to explain where the reasons for the Committee's disagreement were. However, I certainly think that we should take into account the arguments that Mr Onion has made. In fact, there are quite a lot of people affected. If you don't think so, it would be good for this committee to meet there near the airport; I wonder what that would look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Gerencher and then Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	I think there is a bit of a misunderstanding - the government also disagrees with this amendment. It's a press error. We've discussed this a lot on the committee. So, this committee is not - it is also democratic, Dr. Brejc - and we have discussed this a lot and members of the committee have also pointed out the noise that occurs, not in municipalities near the airport, even when the planes land, etc. This was also one reason why the Committee did not accept this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you very much. First of all, I am surprised that we have not been warned that the government does not support this amendment, because it has now been found that the government does not support this amendment. On the contrary and the reason for this, given that the Ministry is responsible for this problem and this problem, which has been taking place for 20 years in the area of local municipalities bordering or affected by the airport of Brnik. These are the municipalities: the least affected is the municipality of Cerklje, the most affected is the municipality of Shenčur, Mengeš, Vodice and also the part of Domžal and Komenda. But I'm surprised at all this thinking. It is easy to judge here in this hall that it is some general noise that hurts us here in this hall. And so I would like to ask you, honourable Members, colleagues, Mr Gerencher, to take you along, it is 20 minutes from Parliament to Brnik Airport and stand at the intersection in Shenchure and wait for one plane to take off. Then give me your grade. Do you get to the neighbor who lives near the airport and ask him to take you to his apartment house and wait for the plane to fly away, and you will see what assessment what would actually bring from practice from this point of view something that is actually happening on the ground to Parliament. I think that in this case we would think substantially differently, and probably on this basis we would have decided and supported this amendment. Now I'm gonna come back again. The airport of Brnik and the Ministry of Transport and Communications have always argued that this problem will be resolved by the aviation law. And please, don't get carried away, representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, don't get carried away! It's up here. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The airport of Brnik. [[...]] I have been a clear member of the Committee on Infrastructure in the previous term, and I have also been a member of the Committee, and I have also been a Vice-President directly. And it was promised that certain matters would be resolved, including problems, through other articles. Yes, in the second reading, there was much to be done, including with the amendments. But what happened in the third reading is what happens regularly in this House. What does not suit the Government or certain ones involved, having a certain interest, is simply allowed to adopt certain amendments in another reading and then to make a summary of the basic law. And that's today. Apart from this, clear changes are in there, as I said in the introduction, when I presented our parliamentary group, how it will vote that a "deal" came between the two main managers of this airport, Inex Adrie and the Brno Aerodrome. And that was the goal that these two groups, these two companies, have achieved their interest, and that is it now. On everything else around the airport, which, let me also tell you a little bit of history back before, people lived at the airport when there was an airport, based on a system that was in 1962 and beyond. [[...]] How this airport was built, how the land was seized, how the victims were also victims, the victims of people who, given that their lands were taken away, that no compensation was paid, that some farmers simply took a "strike" and ended their lives. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the matter is not demogostically presented here, but these are the facts that are happening in the area of the surrounding municipalities that are tanning at the airport. And I ask you, representative of the Ministry, Mr. Slana, to explain the matter. If you have a better proposal, which was also an obvious indication of this amendment, please, why didn't you propose it? This was also evident, including from some of the Members in the previous reference. And why you did not approach the matter because it was clearly stated that problems would arise when the law was adopted as you have now proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have three replicas in order, first Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, then Mr Gerencher and Mr Jakič. Mr Tsukjat also spoke to the debate. Mrs. Flowers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. I got a piece of the answer to what I was thinking when I read this amendment, by the proposer, and I still didn't get a piece. I am particularly interested in and think of the overly relaxed amendment or in that sense bad, because things do not specify precisely enough. It does not specify the conditions under which such an affected area as referred to in the amendment would be located, i.e. what the affected area is. Whether this is the whole corridor where aircraft fly in Slovenia, whether these are municipalities bordering the airport or something. And another thing is, the affected local communities are not listed. I would like to explain here by the proposaler before deciding how to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Gerencher.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	I would just like to tell my colleague, on the other hand, that I have carried on what was discussed on the committee, and I have not given my opinion at all. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I'm replicating my colleague onion. True, his debate was not demagistic, but it was demagogous. Mr Onbulj, instead of giving arguments about why he should support his amendment or the amendment of the parliamentary group, spoke about farmers who took the'strike' and ended their lives, talked about crossings and houses and waiting for planes to take off, and, last but not least, he threatened to collect a civil initiative that would somehow influence the decision of this national assembly as a pressure group. I think that, of course, this kind of argument of the amendment is inappropriate and actually demagogosic. For I too have lived my whole life, lived by the railroad and, of course, Mr Onmagoška could also process it, so that he could come into the house and feel the earth slightly shaken when the train drove by the house, how, of course, you can wake up in the morning at the beeps when the tenants in the Reserve are diverting traffic. But that's not an argument. I would therefore ask Mr Onbuli to tell us further arguments that will be based on his proposal at the professional level. However, I have the feeling that, of course, all the amendments, such amendments, even in the past, have shown that they are not followed by the interest of the people who are affected, but by the interest of the municipalities that want an additional source of funding from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. First of all, my colleague, the mayors of Domžal. She's not present. Well, I'm going to answer anyway, and I'm just going to repeat certain things, which she asked me. With regard to how certain areas in local communities should be divided, which should be affected, I have made it clear that this will have to be produced by the local community, this system, or by the regulation of the Ministry or the Minister or certain sub-legislative acts, because that is also possible. That the amendment was not the best, I heard it in a previous reference from Mr Jelko Kacin, and it was also reported at the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It has been made clear, prepare for better, prepare, because you are, after all, proposing the law itself! And if that's all there is to it, that's not it! It is clear here that you do not want to solve certain problems that arise around the airport, that is clear! Mr Jakič, I will not answer anything else, but I would just say the following: we refer to European legislation to adopt it - this is not a European law, in this case. European airports, European countries have this clear solution. We're not doing this this time. This is not being resolved for now, but I am sure that these issues will have to be resolved sooner or later if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Jakič, then Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Mr Gerenčer, announced the replica. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	Mr Onbulj, I must say that I am replicating because I would like to explain that I did not want to get involved in the discussion at this point. The amendment you have written is: "Refund for the deterioration of conditions is directed towards affected local communities, proportionally, given the number of inhabitants and the level of burden in the affected area." Mr. Onbulj, if you came with an amendment saying you'd be harmed by someone who'd actually be directly affected by the plane flying over his house, then I'd believe you. On the other hand, each individual or individual in that country has the possibility of a civil action in which he can call certain inspections assessing noise and, on the basis of this, complain. But, once again, Mr. Bebulj, my thesis is that, for such proposals now and also in the past, which also come from the mayors of some municipalities, the interest of the local community lies behind the new source of funding from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Actually, I'd like to attach it here myself to my colleague Jakic. I think that the bad side of this amendment is in this, too, I am concerned that this matter is directed, as it is written, to affected local communities. I think, and I would be prepared to support such an amendment - the intention and content of the explanations that Mr Onbulj has given, I absolutely support, but I do not support the matter in this respect, as it is written in the amendment. Here I think it is really necessary to define this area, regardless of the local community, but on the affected individual house or whatever we take, and on the basis of the measured noise. I believe that these are also the solutions that Mr Onbulj calls to be in Europe. And I think we should follow suit here. However, I wonder what else the government or government representative is thinking about, since I think that this could still be settled with some government law, regulation or whatever.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, are you replicating? Then I ask the government representative to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakič and Mrs. Orazem, look. That's exactly what I keep saying. That's exactly what I'm trying to do. This problem should be resolved by the proposer. It's true, I agree. I have expected representatives of the government, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the former Secretary of State, who is now already employed at Inex Adria, and we can confirm that, as I said before, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's right. [[...]] But since the State or the Ministry of Transport and Communications or the government does not solve this problem, local communities do so. What's the problem here now? Of course, I am aware that local communities will have many problems in all of this, many problems, how exactly this money, if we get it, how to fairly share it in certain burdens that the municipality also has - all compensations, building lands, municipal contributions, etc. and other taxes, or eventually, that some infrastructure is made in that place that goes past the previous plan, etc. These are the systems that we know, Madam Mayor, don't we? And the mayors we're in here, we have to sort of solve these things in a way that makes sense. However, that the Ministry of Transport and Communications or the applicant has not drawn up such solutions as Mr Jakič and Mrs Orazem have proposed that the Under-Secretary of State respond, who has always said that they will come up with a solution. Yes, I would agree with that solution. With this, the local community is certainly burdened, there is no need for it to save it, and the Undersecretary of State to answer where the corridors in which the areas are threatened are, not least, they have a bunch of letters, complaints, etc., and they have probably looked at it. An accurate assessment can also be selected from the complaints of citizens who are at the airport and I think that the government or the proposer could prepare such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Slana, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Louder? The draft law does not support the proposed amendment because citizens are affected and not by local communities. This is the basic reason why he decided to stay with the basic text in the second reading. In this case, it is extremely difficult for the local community to determine. The reverse monitoring to be organised by an airport undertaking, on the basis of the provisions or regulations resulting from the environmental law, shall identify overruns of noise in certain places and be affected by natural persons or by any other designation of individuals and certain objects. In this respect, however, it is based on the dialogue between the European Union and the European Civil Aviation Conference that these funds are geared primarily towards preventing noise overrun. These overpayments actually only pay for those planes, on those flights, for those places where they went over the noise. The system, which is insightful, works flawlessly, is in Vienna, our closest system and are actually trying to prevent excesses. In those cases where such excesses could not be prevented, however, natural persons are entitled to certain compensation, depending on the level of overrun of this noise. In this respect, we believe that the basic text of Article 113 is more appropriate to implement such a solution than the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. They applied to the replicas, as the first Mr Geza Juban, as the second Mr Victory Jelinčič and then Mr Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Onbul in some way that the matter may be so far away that the wrong law with the wrong content has been introduced. What's going on with us? We in Slovenia have recently come so far that we do not want to have our own garbage, that we do not want to have and destroy our own bone-meat wetness, that we do not want to accept excess fat, that we do not accept refugees who are here physically and "non-innovated", and that we will also lawize our own in aviation, if that is true, when people are sick, when they come to visit a psychiatrist, when the houses shake and break down, that we will give local communities money, and let the houses continue to shake, let people hang, let them continue to seek a psychiatrist - I think the solution is wrong. We should have filed a law on the cessation of airport activity. This way, we don't want planes coming in, like Mr. Slana says, with too much noise, so we don't call for the help of village guards or anything like that. I don't think the way is right not to solve problems and that we have to "land" in some way and take matters seriously and solve them in a way that is possible in today's world. And this way we won't save people. I don't think that's true either. And that is not a good way to finance local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory, just a moment, a procedural proposal takes precedence over a replica. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that Mr Slana has found out how this is regulated in other countries or in European countries. I would suggest an hour of recess and sit down with a representative or the Undersecretary of State and prepare such an amendment. Please put this to the vote, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Mr. Onbulj, the deadlines for the amendment have expired 15 days ago in this case. However, you can amend it in accordance with Rule 193 of the Rules of Procedure, and you can design it differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	I agree with your proposal; we'll try to do this "stand," won't we, Mr. Jakič? Okay? Please, if you give me an hour's rest to talk to a representative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and recast the amendment, and we'll continue in an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Would it be half an hour enough, Mr. Onion? We must first decide on Mr Onbul's procedural proposal. I'm asking the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The provisions of this law and the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act together give this result. Indeed, the law on environmental protection already lays down certain powers of the government, local communities, I do not know, the causes of noise, imposes obligations on airport operators, and this system is already established. Our law has only established a specific specificity. And this particular is the one that comes from these flight circles. This specification is addressed within the framework of the European Union, between the European Union and the European Civil Aviation Conference. And in this sense, as far as the proposer is concerned, the problem is that the affected citizens will be protected from excessive noise and those who cannot be protected will receive adequate compensation, somehow resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Do you insist? For the sake of correctness, because Mr. Onbulj wants to reform his amendment, I am giving a half hour rest and will continue on with Please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	I suggest you move on to the second point, and we settle these matters in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	Okay. The only problem I see is that there are no government representatives in this case. I think that the law on amendments and additions to the law is next, OK, we can proceed with this point. [[...]] We are not interrupting the meeting, but we are continuing with the next item on the agenda. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the provision of social security for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to the death penalty from the Republic of Croatia, formerly in the form of a summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Mrs. Belopavlovich, please. Dear colleagues, I ask for peace in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! In 1992, the State of Slovenia adopted a law providing social security for citizens, Slovenian citizens who lived or worked in various republics of the former SFRJ, and in these republics obtained the right to a pension from insurance. In view of the situation in 1992, when there was no payment or reciprocity between the newly created countries in the payment of pensions, and of course social security agreements had not yet been concluded, these citizens no longer received pensions from other republics or received them in an amount that did not provide minimum social security. For these cases, the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ states that they have the right to an allowance to a pension which is measured from the basis set out in the amount of pension which went to the beneficiary for September 1991 and converted to Slovenian to 1:1. The right was recognised to Slovenian citizens with permanent residence in the territory of our country and represented either the total amount of the pension, in cases where this pension was not paid at all, such as from Serbia, Montenegro or Bosnia, or the difference between the actual pension paid and the pension received by the pensioner, if there were no currency differences or if the initial pensions were valorized as they were valorised in Slovenia. This was true, for example, for pensions from Croatia. Following the entry into force of the law, there were cases of insured persons who later established their pension and it was no longer possible for those pensioners to have a pension or an allowance in the above-mentioned manner, so they were granted an allowance at the rate of the lowest pension base. In 1999, the Constitutional Court found that there was no legal basis in the law for such a dosage and that the implementation of the accounts for beneficiaries who retired after 1991 was difficult. It therefore ordered the legislator to establish a pension base for these cases. With the proposal to supplement the law before you, the applicant followed this decision by the Constitutional Court in such a way as to establish the basis for the assessment of the additive. In doing so, the Government decided to propose a pension base that would be measured to the beneficiary according to the pension and disability rules in relation to the supplementary pension period from the lowest pension base. So for a solution that has already been implemented in practice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that the basis could also be established in another way. However, it is impossible to assess the financial consequences, since neither the number of future beneficiaries of the rights referred to in this Title nor the clear possible amount of the allowance resulting from, for example, the basis established at the level of the starting salary by the tariff groups under the collective agreement or otherwise. In the event of such an approach, it would also be necessary to amend the existing social security conventions. These have already been concluded with the Republic of Macedonia, with the Republic of Croatia, and, of course, the same approach has also been taken with agreements with other former SFRJ republics. This would not only mean a change in these conventions, but would also mean a derogation from the basics of the insurance principle and the generally accepted principles of the Convention in this area. This is regulation 1408, which at the level of the European Union regulates the area of social insurance. In view of all the above, I propose that you adopt a proposal for a law to that extent or a text submitted by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! At its 2nd regular session, our committee considered the draft law and, of course, also took note of almost, I would say, the exact same explanation given by the proposer in view of the need to adopt this law, as the Secretary of State had just given it, so I would not repeat it. However, I would like to say that in the debate, the members of the committee drew attention to a decision by the Constitutional Court, which also suggests different solutions than the government proposes. They felt that the government, along with the pension and disability insurance institutions, should prepare other possible solutions. With regard to the validity of the law governing the social security of pensioners, however, the members considered that validity should be limited for a certain period of time, so that no new abuses would occur. On the financial consequences of the law, however, members felt that they should be more transparent and that our country should not impose additional financial burdens until appropriate bilateral agreements have been concluded between our country and the successor countries of the former SFRY. After the discussion, the members of the Committee unanimously confirmed and agreed to the consideration of the law following a reduced procedure. On the basis of the secretariat's reasoned comment, the Committee has also adopted an amendment that makes more sense to incorporate the content of the article into the existing law, and we propose such an amendment for adoption by the National Assembly. On the basis of the debate that took place, the Committee also adopted a decision in the report, which I will also read: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that a proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the republics of the former SFRJ should be considered and adopted together with the amendment of the Committee following a reduced procedure." The additional decision was considered, and I would say, in the debate, and was then also submitted to the members at the conclusion of the hearing, and, of course, as such, it is also an integral part of this report. By having two additional conclusions. First: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, within 3 months of the entry into force of the law, prepare an assessment of the consequences of the adopted law by determining the number of recipients of pensions before and after the monetary independence of Slovenia in order to determine the difference between the amount of the pension, which, for approximately equal pay or tariff classes in the general collective contract, is received by pensioners before and after the monetary independence of Slovenia, shall also prepare an assessment of the necessary means for the possible equalisation of the differences. On this basis, it should assess whether any differences in the rights granted by this law to beneficiaries who have retired before and after monetary independence allow for an assessment of respect for the principle of justice, equality before the law. If not, the government should make the necessary proposals for amendments to the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRY or from the Republic of the former SFRJ." Second decision, additional decision: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, within three months, also provide data on the state of the former SFRJ in relation to the Republics of the Republic of Slovenia and on reciprocity in the field of disability and pension insurance, together with the information contained in the previous decision, to the National Assembly." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Brenčich. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mrs Simsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the addition of the Social Security Act to Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ. In the case of the Group of Members, we reiterate that in our opinion, the proposed supplement is merely a continuation of injustice in relation to all pensioners of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who, at any time during their work, worked temporarily in any of the former republics of the SFRJ. The Act, which we are supplementing today, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, stipulates in its articles 1 and 2, that all pensioners, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in Slovenia, who have already had a pension at the time of the adoption of the law, and the law was adopted in September 1992, have already had a pension, this pension is measured by actually converting it into a one-to-one ratio, in view of the monetary independence before that. So they have exactly the same pensions as they would have under Slovenian regulations, and they also have the same alignment under Slovenian rules. So, of course, this decision was good and it also had all the elements of justice that the rapporteur of the home labour body had already talked about. At the same time, a completely different criterion applies to those people, including the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who also have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, who have obtained the right to retirement after that date, i.e. after the monetary independence of Slovenia or on 1 October 1991. However, they consider that for the period when they worked in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, they are given the lowest full-time pension base. This, of course, means that the pension of many of these people is significantly lower than the pension of those we spoke about earlier and had the right to a pension. In some cases, this is a symbolic amount, in some cases it means a quarter, a third or even more lower pension, and in some cases perhaps only a quarter of that pension received by the beneficiary who was retired before 1991. We stress this so much in our parliamentary group, because it is unfair, although justice is not an element of legislation, but in our view, it must also be respected by laws. These people are co-existed in another category and are therefore punished because they once worked in the same country, but, of course, in different areas of the same country, and were not able to know 20, 30 years ago that this country would once be divided and that because they once worked in another part of this country and not in Slovenia, they would not actually be rewarded for this work, but punished. So if you want, I can say that this is not only unfair, but also unfair, because it puts them in a fundamentally different position. That is why, in the group of Members of the United List, we have been working together all the time to address this law - and even earlier - to say so - to try to resolve these differences. However, in the debates, including on the labour force, the majority opinion prevailed that it was only necessary to amend the law in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, as the Government's representative had already said, so I would not repeat it because it was in a hurry. But in the illustration, there's something else I'd like to say. The decision of the Constitutional Court was issued on 20 May 1999, we are today on 23 February 2001, which is a strong year, a year and a few months after the deadline has been set, by which time the national assembly must bring this decision into line with the Constitution. Well, maybe he's not in such a hurry, and he could be out for another month. But, as it is said, the majority will was different, so we told the parliamentary group that we would support the enactment of the Constitutional Court's decision, and at the same time, on the working body, we proposed an additional decision empowering the government to come before us within three months of the implementation of this law by means of calculations, proposals to resolve these injustices into the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore ask you, colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups, to support this additional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Drobnič, on behalf of the Group of Members, then Mr Brenčič, on behalf of his Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	Dear Members and Members! We also support in Nova Slovenija that the problem of the regulation of the pensions of Slovenian citizens who have obtained pensions under other regulations in the countries of our former common country in order to regulate this. However, we have a slightly different view of this than that of my previous interlocutors. In fact, after monetary independence, each individual had a free decision to decide where he would lock up his insurance, where he would get a job. This means that all the consonants resulting from this, of course, must also bear on themselves. Until monetary independence and until then, therefore, divorce was not his responsibility, it was not his responsibility, it was not in his power. Therefore, of course, it makes sense to make a difference. This is also the case with the instruction or statement of the Constitutional Court in order to resolve it in one way or another. We support, therefore, the solution presented by the government, even the Bajuk government, for two reasons: that the expression or allocation of these pensions is lawful because it has not been so far. It was stated in the law, but not under any criteria, in any way. Now, with this change of law, we are correcting or correcting it. The second reason is that, of course, these pensioners who have become Slovenian citizens are in social distress because of the various wage increases or the drop in the standard in some other countries where they have exercised the right to a disability pension. So we have reasons to handle this, and we also have reasons to deal with it quickly. Of course, some issues of equality are raised, of course, to other citizens - we are now already in 2001 - to Slovenian citizens who may have been insured and have obtained the right to a pension in some other countries after monetary independence - so in other countries that do not belong in the former Yugoslav countries. After monetary independence, and especially after 2000, there are no more reasons to accept any differences. For this relationship has broken and we enter these countries of the former Yugoslavia into the same relations as with other countries. Therefore, if we accept a privileged or specific mode of regulation, we are at risk of causing injustice to other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have obtained a pension in other countries, i.e. non-Yugoslovaks. That's it. You may also experience the following: that the standard or valorisation of pensions recognised in the former Yugoslav countries are so valorised that they are identical to Slovenian or even better. I don't rule that out. Unable to exclude. This may create problems with special rights or with the provision of supplements to the basic pension, and this basic pension will already be as big as the Slovenian pension. This gives rise to a preference and an uneven position. So I mentioned some of the reasons we have to take into account when adopting this law, so after a longer period of thought and judgment, we have prepared an amendment that you have received or amendments to this law, which you have also received at the table, where we are trying to eliminate these dangers, an additional danger, the possibility of abuse in the future. On the Committee itself, experts or experts from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance mentioned the possibility of concluding a speculative insurance. That's possible in the future, too. That is why we have prepared this amendment, which you also have on the table that eliminates these weaknesses - this is the first - to limit the payment of allowances for beneficiaries who have obtained this pension in these countries, namely for the period from 1.10.1991, i.e. after monetary independence, and until the adoption of this law. After that date, all pensioners, i.e. all citizens of Slovenia, who have obtained pensions in other countries - any - former Yugoslavia or elsewhere, are in the same position. Their social rights and pensions are regulated by bilateral agreements, therefore, equally for all. Then we propose a variety of supplements according to where most of this insurance period was concluded, which is the basis for obtaining a pension. Those who have more than half of it go after one system, where the basis is the one proposed in the first law of amendment or the lowest pension base is this basis; for those who have more than half the starting point is the average starting wage. In this way, it will also be possible to assess the financial implications, and we will also be able to do so: assess the financial implications. So much for New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Well, our parliamentary group will, of course, support the law. Support, first of all, from a title that we have been representing for a long time that, in fact, at each regular meeting of the National Assembly, we have to resolve certain requirements of the Constitutional Court, which we owe as a legislative body. And with this law in fact, we're also solving this. In essence, however, we are only legitimizing the practice already implemented, which, according to social entitlement, has been established by the pension insurance institution itself in practice. It is certainly possible, however, that different solutions are also possible, given that Slovenian citizens, given that they have earned it in one and the same period of the former state, are becoming disproportionate. However, we insist that this should be resolved only after bilateral agreements have been concluded with a particular country that has been in the former common country of the Republic. Only then will this also be possible to choose different solutions, especially for possible abuses that are immediately present. However, I would like to point out that it is very reasonable that we, of course, adopt good laws and do not cause such and other negative consequences after its entry into force. And I am sorry that perhaps the proposal of this amendment, which we have just received on the bench in the course of the debate, came to the committee itself, where, on the basis of such and other arguments, we could take a closer look at it and even prepare it for this decision. Surely, however, this amendment needs to be deepened for a moment. As it is said: we will, of course, support and support the law in such content as was also presented by the representative of the proposer and, as the position and definitions of the parent committee have taken on it. However, any further in this area can be resolved later when bilateral agreements are concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude a general discussion once. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The subject matter of this marriage is, I would say, very difficult. And I would be against saying quickly that ideal solutions are proposed, as well as against taking on some proposed solutions quickly. I must say that the amendment proposed in Novi Slovenije seems to me to be giving possible answers. Or are they real, I can't say because I read it right now. In particular, I cannot say whether they are entirely in line with the views and views presented by Mr Drobnic. In fact, I agree with him that it is right that either 1.10.1991 or 25.6.1991 separate themselves from the new conclusion of the working relationship, possibly also for the duration of the already concluded working relationship. Because in this part it is his judgment whether or not, I would say, he concludes a working relationship somewhere in a foreign country or not. Or it's this date to tie up on the day of retirement, but it's another question. Since the day of retirement can still be today, but this working relationship has been in a republic of the former SFRJ since the year, I don't know, but 1962 until 1970, and then there were other situations where he couldn't have known and expected what was going to happen in 1990 and 1991. So I think it's not so much to point out when he was retired, but to point out when, or when he was making insurance, he knew it or didn't know it. Second. I think it would be very useful to have calculations before we decide. I believe that perhaps MEPs and Members of New Slovenia have calculations. This moment is hard to say because there are only a few paragraphs before we decide. I would like to say that the Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats have made every effort to obtain certain data, but unfortunately the agreements have not been realized as we expected: neither by the government nor by the PIC, which we asked them to give us some information and because there was no such data, we did not hope to propose any amendments quickly. I would therefore be of the opinion that it would be possible to accept Mr Brenčič's idea to hold a debate, to see different views, but then perhaps only to ask for a look at things in the working body in peace, to get government opinions, to make some assessments, to maybe get what we have proposed to the PIZ, and to date we have not received, and to see what a good solution would be. I can tell you what we suggested. We have proposed that specific comparisons should be made, including possibly by these tariff classes, if not better, among the pensions received from the same group before 1.10.1991 retired and after 1.10.1991 retired under the same conditions. Because we said: if the difference is minimal, it probably doesn't have to be a big problem. However, if the difference is large or very large, then we are asked the question of equality before the law, provided, of course, that it is a citizen, that it is a permanent residence and that it is a work relationship concluded at a time when the former common country was, when it was not yet able to know what would happen. Another is if someone made a working relationship, for example, on March 1, 1993, when he concluded it with his own conduct, where and how he concluded it. So, perhaps after the debate only shows this idea of Mr Brenčič to support. I would be very grateful myself, and I think that the reasons for this are also in the fact that we are formally violating the Constitutional Court's decision, but we are not trying at this point; people are getting the same pension as they would if they adopted this law, which means nothing but formalizing the practice we have so far. And if this is possible - I would say - in the course of this meeting or next month to solve this problem, I think it is better if we help solve it qualitatively if there is any willingness on the part of the government, but I must say, so far, unfortunately, very little understanding has been given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is the legislator's duty to make good decisions. It would be helpful if colleagues from Nova Slovenije brought this text at least two, three days earlier or to present it on the working body. However, we now have a business opportunity to decide together and, however, to the content of these amendments, to redefine the working body and to prepare at this meeting also a government representative all possible financial implications of the solutions proposed in this amendment. If there is no such political majority, then it is likely that the amendment will not be adopted either. However, some of the intentions of the proposed solutions are good and are worth considering. I therefore propose, Madam Vice-President, that, despite our desire to be effective, it is the wish that we are also comprehensive, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we vote on the proposal to redefine the working body of the New Slovenia Group, pending the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I must put this proposal to the vote. I think and I hope we're done - we are. We are voting on a procedural proposal to suspend this meeting until the amendment of New Slovenia defines the parent working body. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 4. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against four.]] I note that a procedural proposal has been adopted to define the working body of the New Slovenia amendments as part of the regular meeting of the National Assembly and to continue with this item on the agenda once we have received the opinion of the parent working body. I interrupt the session for ten minutes, just to see if the amendment of the group - I think it has been half an hour - to continue with the aviation law. We'll continue at 11.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	Dear colleagues, we continue with consideration 4. agenda items - the new text of the amendment to Article 113, which is in reproduction, has been drawn up as agreed and we will open the debate on it. If you allow, the amended text of the amendment would read so that we can discuss it. In particular, the Slovenian Socialist Group has amended the text of the amendment to Article 113 by reading it. The second paragraph is amended as follows: "The fees referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be collected by the airport operator and shall be the revenue of the State budget. The fees shall be used to reduce the impact and eliminate the effects of engine noise on the affected area in accordance with the measures identified in the airport development programmes. At least one quarter of the fees collected in each year shall be allocated as a compensation for the deterioration of the conditions of residence of residents with permanent residence in affected areas. The affected areas shall be determined on the basis of the measures taken by the Government by regulation." I am putting this amendment to Article 113 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I myself will oppose such an amendment and all such amendments as will be accepted with such a dictatorship. Once the budgetary resources or public finances start to be dealt with in this way, there can be no more uniform or systematic and synthetic public finances. The wish is understandable. The method, however, is incorrect and inadequate. According to this logic, the state budget could be made up of, say, 1000 or 5,000 dedicated resources - we are very happy to call them Tolars - and, of course, this state budget or public finances would remain only a local or individual interest. The State budget and public finances are not local or individual interests, but they are a common interest. Through this common interest, normal individual or local interests can then be exercised. However, if we consider that a mechanism called a state budget or public finances is a direct exercise of the interests of individuals, then the state is neither public finances nor public finances. Although this matter is distinctly irrelevant and very smart and very good, we have clearly targeted a group of people who are to benefit. In reality, it's unprovable. Nowhere does it say that the ultimate benefit will actually belong to people who are supposed to gain one quarter of that source of contribution, or whatever this mandatory donation is called. In this way, the formation of public financial obligations ultimately leads to those conflicts that we are talking about when we adopt a state budget, that there are a lot of partial interests that would defend a general or common one. That is why I think that, of course, in a policy that has clear principles of advantage and decisions, it is possible to do so without dedicated means - earmarked resources. However, if that is not the case, and the dedicated resources will not end where they are supposed to end. After all, there could be a discussion on this subject for a few hours. We started with Tolars in 1993, as you remember, from - I'll say - road, military and so on, and we're not any happier today than we were when we started. That is why I am opposed to any dissemination of the idea or system of dedicated resources in the State budget or in local budgets, because this is a topic that is the focus of the debate on the advantages in the State budget and, hopefully, also in that part of the State budget, which, under the Public Finance Act, will talk about the plans of the development programmes that should be in place for four years; and there such things can be dealt with properly and appropriately. If you look at - and I conclude with this - just one example of what happened in that constitutional decision on local self-government or community funding when it came to cultural institutions, you have found that we increased our share from 30% to 35% for local communities, which is not wrong after all; but if you look at what was actually happening with, I will say, by maintaining this network of cultural institutions, you will find that something that was not envisaged happened; that the large municipalities were much left over, and the small municipalities were still empty - cultural institutions are still where they were. So it seems to me that overtaking, I would say, is right in this case, as far as I'm concerned, inappropriate and will not bring the result that the applicants have written down. This, in my opinion, is not even for themselves to be sure that this will really happen in practice. Look at all the other dedicated resources, and you'll see what's going on in this way - in fact, the unity of the state budget is broken down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Government representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would just like to say that the proposed amendment is closer to the basic solution proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I expected Mr Slana to say more about where these funds came from, which then unite in the state budget. These funds are essentially pooled from so - called airplanes or planes that cause excessive noise. And these funds should, in any event, be allocated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the State budget for the purpose of anti-group barriers or any other purpose. But these funds have now, in short, remained in the state budget, in the integrated budget, and have been spent on other matters, they have not gone for the purpose from which the budget has not finally been added. That's one segment. From this point of view, I believe that there is no reason to raise the issue of State budget interference, which would eventually return these funds to certain affected citizens at the airports themselves. That's another thing. I would like to remind you that we have passed quite a few laws in the previous term, which in short, interfered with the financial part of the local communities. At that time, none of the competent ministers or possibly Members asked whether the local communities were actually capable of this task, or with legal obligations to be supplemented or given certain obligations to local communities, whether they were able to finance it. However, in the event that we use this amendment with a little bit of change, I could say we have reached out to the state budget, but the question is immediately how we will accept the state budget or how the government can prepare it. I do not think that this, Mr Gaspari, is in place to raise the issue in this case, but what will happen to the state budget. The third thing I should remind you of, Mr Gaspari, I would like to mention again the following. I am very pleased that certain Members who have now participated in the drafting of this amendment, with the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, Mrs Orazmovo, also Mr Jakič has joined and others have actually come to not only say that we must have a European law, but they have actually approached, which will also need to be implemented in a European law, not only by word of mouth, but also by European law. And this is the amendment with which I think we treat our citizens in a European way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Two replicas. Mr. Gaspari and then Mr. Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since I was just named, I'd just answer. First time. I think that - once again, formal intention is not yet a real realization of this purpose in practice. According to the logic that is supposed to be very clear here, it means that from excise duties on cigarettes we should only get money from this title for cancer caused by smoking. That is, I would say, the final banalization of this principle. Thus, neither the state nor the other budget does not work. Even the budgets of local communities do not work according to this principle - you know all of you who are mayors - but the budget, the resources are collected, so that I can say that we are used for the purposes for which the one who is empowered to do so is decided. And they're usually some authorities, there's a national assembly, there's other authorities at the local level. About whether it's European or not. I must say that this has nothing to do with Europeanism. The fact that anti-group protection is clearly easy - I mean, it has nothing to do with Europe. The number of decibels is probably prescribed in some international standards, even in European standards, which must be respected as much as possible in Slovenia; but this is not directly related to the purpose of the source, so far through the source of funding. And this does not say in European regulations how this must be ensured. If this is a real problem - and of course it is obvious because we all know it - and here is this assembly and another at local level, that, of course, when determined, as I said, the benefits of annual financing of those needs which the community considers necessary to determine then the means and thus, of course, adequately financed. Otherwise, we would have for everyone - in infrastructure, after all, we could determine for every road that is not a highway, but a state road that must be a special source. This is said, I don't know, within all taxes there must be exactly so much for each individual bend or section of the road. This does not go anywhere, and even in the past, this accumulating of resources has led everyone today to talk about how much predetermined spending is. Of course, even through resources, this preparation is predetermined and there is no flexibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Yes, Madam Vice-President, of course, in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to correct the statement made by Mr Chebul. Of course, I was at this coordination for a very short time, until, of course, I realized that I had shuddered with my replica right into that heart. Mr Onbulj will be able to say that he was very angry at why I shudder in the local community, if the local communities can also help the aircraft at risk, even by making the sewers available to them. And with this I disagreed and, of course, left this group because I thought it was inappropriate to discuss the local community, given that it was a problem for people who were at risk of noise; because, of course, noise was also in some way violating the rights of the individual. I have pointed out that there is - and this is where Comrade Gaspari is right. In my replica, I had previously pointed out that we can repeat the case as in the railway law - a similar story. My discussion is all going in the direction of preventing this country from becoming a beneficiary country. We in this country behave that for every thing that goes through here, someone can get a pension. And I think it's a wrong policy from a general state point of view. As for the proposed amendment, I must say that, of course, I do not see in this amendment, the specific amendment, the problem given that the affected areas will be determined by the government on the basis of the measurements made. However, I am afraid that the applicant, Mr Onbulj in a timely manner, will, of course, use this story and this amendment or use it in further discussions when he attacks the government; if she has not yet made those measurements and, of course, proposed reparations, financial reparations for the injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina and then Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	Excuse me, Mr. Kelemina. Is it a replica or is it a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	I've got a replica to perform. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	Then Mr. Kelemina has the upper hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	several representatives from the LDS. [[...]] Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Of course, there are great advocates of centralisation and the exercise of their power in this country, but of course you are also acting as if this is all together, this country, your property and as if you are the only guardians. But you are the guardians, not the human ones, but your interests above all. However, this country exists because of its citizens, not because of some of the interests of one political option. So long as I get you out of here, I think I'm gonna let you down. Otherwise, please take a look at the constitution, what it says in the constitution. Article 72 reads nicely: "Hello, life, a healthy living environment." Everyone has the right under the law to a healthy living environment. The country is concerned about a healthy environment. To this end, the law lays down the conditions and means for carrying out economic and other activities. The law therefore lays down under which conditions and to what extent the cause of damage in the living environment is obliged to compensate for the damage. Now, tell me, do we have this law and what law does that make? Which one? Do we have such a general law? We don't. So if we don't have a general law, we're talking about the law on environmental protection and sub-laws, and we're going to sort it all out; because we talked about this in the previous term - many times. We have spoken many times, and that we will prepare a system law on environmental protection that foresees all these compensations and conditions, etc.: There is no law. So in some law it is necessary to define this. Then which one? See also Article 26 of the Constitution. Everyone shall have the right to compensation for any damage suffered by a person or body carrying out such a service or activity by a public authority, a local authority or a public authority by way of its unlawful conduct. So now you're doing all of these things here that are actually very important to our people, bringing them to some level, if we don't have to build any roads anymore, etc. Then why do we do sound locks and so on in highways?? So that we can ease these interferences into space and give people a normal life! That's a fact. Now, if you have the power of 10 years in your hands and in this area you have done absolutely nothing and that you have the protection of the environment and protection, the right rights of citizens under the Constitution are of little concern, and then what we have today is what we have; that each person is trying to protect his or her constitutional interests in the law that is being dealt with in the National Assembly. I think that if you think this country should continue to lead and behave as you do, then let these things be arranged so that citizens, especially Slovenians and Slovenians, can know how to behave and live in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The replicas were made by Mr Tsukati and Mr Onbulj, then Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	Your Honor! Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would mention, however, that our general environmental orientation, which has been adopted in the spirit of European guidance through the national programme, is that the manufacturer - the source of the environmental burden - is obliged to remove this burden, the consequences of recovery or at least mitigate it. Surely no one is protesting that the source of pollution - because noise is a great pollution of the environment - is also obliged to ease it, if not otherwise, by financial compensation to the injured party. I believe that housing facilities under the runway are certainly half as valuable as they were before the airport existed. It is also one of the elements of the requirement that these victims actually receive some compensation. It has been said that it is too transparent and we do not trust the local community, the local community, the congregation, to use these funds deliberately, so that directly injured persons should receive them. Well, now that's what we requested in the previous part of the session. I am also surprised that, in fact, the environmental burden tax has to disappear, drown in the state budget, because otherwise everything will be played out in different ways. I believe that this particular intention is now assured by this proposal, and I am surprised that, in fact, in this work, this debate does not represent the interests of voters, the interests of the countries; even so far as a government representative says that this is actually very close or already acceptable, but we still insist that we do not care about the burden of individual voters, but we do care about the one who is actually forced to take care of these countries. I don't think it's right that "even if they're overburdened, they have the opportunity to challenge the right." It would be sad to have a national assembly, a sad government, which says, "but complain if the court decides, and we'll pay you." After all, it is we who must ensure that these people do not have to complain that they will be granted justice immediately. And I believe that this amendment is a step towards making us more honest with the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. A very short replica, as I said, to Mr. Jakich. Mr. Jakič, some like you do not need or like municipalities or local communities, do not need or like mayors - we all need them! This is a response to the critical assessment of local communities and the work of certain people in local communities. To attack the government of the Republic of Slovenia - when did I attack the government for no reason? In short, I warned her. Please bring me the transcripts, the notes, where I was doing this. I'll never and never do it without a reason! I am warning you, and I am constantly warning you that this amendment must be adopted. And why are you here, not least, calling on me to attack the government? You, as Members of Parliament, the representatives of the people, who we are, are challenging such an amendment. No, I will not appoint a government, but I will invite the Members, the individual Members who will vote against this amendment, to the first meeting in Shenchure. And there you will be able to repeat your opinion to the citizens of certain people who are affected by the airport, and we will see how, then, this work of yours and your work in Parliament will be evaluated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you, for your word. If I start at the last, I'd say to Mr. Chebul first, "Mrs. Mayors, we love you, but be there and work where you've been elected." It's for the love of mayors. Second. I would say to Mr Kelemini that he was quoting the wrong article of the Constitution, that article of the Constitution speaks of the harm that citizens suffer because of the wrong work of the State authority. I would say to all of you, let us read another 148th article of this same constitution, which speaks of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	Mr. Kremjar! Excuse me, Mr. Jakich, then Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you, for your word. Now to Mr. Chebul and Mr. Kelemini. If Mr Onion would listen carefully to me, he could - this could also be seen from the magnetogram - that I concluded by saying that this amendment does not bother me and I let him know that I am, of course, ready to confirm it. But of course, Mr Onbuli's discussions, and above all Mr Kelemina's discussions, are dissuading me from this amendment. They're distracting me from this amendment. Mr. Onbulj tells me about the love of local communities and the mayors. I'm a city councillor in Ljubljana. No, no, Mr. Čebulj, but now, if you want to, you can adopt a law - for example, it would be correct if you behaved very localistically, and would say, "Ljubljana or Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans have the same right to a healthy life as your citizens and citizens." Imagine what it would be like for every story such as pollution - and noise is environmental pollution - to raise all 12 of us, or to raise all 12 of us Members and Members from the Ljubljana municipality and to demand a pension for Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans because they are affected and their constitutional rights are violated - the right to a healthy environment. It is, of course, a view that can be narrow, and it is a view that has a localist interest, or, of course, we care, as custodians, of course, for the country as a whole. And of course we are - even the constitution so says, Mr Kelemina - representatives of all the people. So, not only Ljubljana and Ljubljana have I been elected to this State Assembly and city council, but all of them. If everyone is forced to pay, next time I will see you, Mr Onbulj, as a test I will give you a story that will only apply to Ljubljana and Ljubljana. I have been accused here many times that I should be embarrassed because I am Ljubljana, because we are centralists here in Ljubljana. Next time I'm going to test you and I'm going to pull, like, "out of five veins", one of the rights that would also be after the constitution, because it stops to interpret, which should also belong to Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans after the stop. And we will see how you will react then, given how much you love us who come from Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion wishes you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	Mr. Jakich, listen. The voters who elected you, both in the city council and in the state parliament, are also in our area, which is mostly on Monday mornings from eight to nine calls, why such noise in our field. We have come - you know, Mr. Mayor - because of this from Ljubljana that we will have peace, but these are your constituents and you represent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. So, as expected, the matter has taken it along the airport path to where it does not belong: with one debate which is essentially very little to do with it. I am just by chance also the mayor and, of course, such aprioral assessments as we are, these ugly mayoral ones, of course, are not exactly the right ones. By chance, this municipality, where I am mayor, is also at the airport. So I also have some experience with these stories. I think taking the matter this way is pointless, of course. I'm not Mr Gaspari's lawyer, because he doesn't need a lawyer, and my colleague Gaspari wanted to point out something else, I agree. Not that these people do not need to be harmed, given, or in some way, although this cannot be completely eliminated with money, but that some compensation is provided, but that there is no way, the source is not true. And I have to say that I basically agree here. I agree and ask whether the Ministry of Transport, to which this matter belongs, or the Ministry of the Environment, if anyone knows and can tell me, has some money planned and planned and whether it has been in the past to pay for it. As I see the matter, of course it should be from this money, but not directly in the future a certain source written in this law, but as an integral part of the state budget, which would be allocated for these purposes from this money, which is being paid by air carriers to airports and airports, then to the state budget. So it's not a question of who's for people or who's against people. It's probably hard to get up here, but I'd say it's against people, not because I'm just pretending to be nice, because I'm sure there's no one here who's gonna be like that. So, of course, this debate is pointless. It doesn't make sense because it doesn't lead to any solutions. The idea that Mr Onion is talking about is certainly wise - in my opinion - and in some way it must be installed somewhere. The question is, of course, if it's the right place, the right article and the right law. I don't think so myself, but; as an idea - yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would ask, Mr Slana, that, in the light of the discussions, clarifications and the attitude of the government towards the proposed amendment are provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you, Madam Vice President. With regard to the question raised by Mr Kremjar, I would answer that, according to the information I know, not a single tolar has been charged as compensation for noise overrun, because there is no regulation, and not a single toll has been paid as compensation for possible noise overruns, which may have already been registered at some airports, but not at the Ljubljana airport. However, as I said earlier, the government's position remains unchanged with regard to this amendment, as the proposed amendment is now closer to the government's basic purpose when it stipulated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	Mr Slana, nevertheless, I would like you to explain whether you support or do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you. If I said that I supported it, I would probably exceed the powers given that the government had concluded on this amendment that it had authorized the Minister to make some minor changes in the debate that had been discussed in the Government's discussions in the drafting of the amendments and to which the Government had already adopted a position. The government has taken a position on this amendment and I can express the Government's position in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Sir, please, once again - the record on page 37 says the government agrees. It is also apparent from the committee's magnetogram that the Government has agreed with the amendment in its previous form; this has been verified by the services.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	The material we are looking at - this is a review of the amendments tabled to the proposal of the Aviation Act of 12.2.2001 - is a mistake with regard to the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Given that Mr Slana, Undersecretary of State, cannot make it clear whether the amendment that we have drafted together - in short, I am acting as a motioner - and that the government is not defined, I suggest that the agenda should end, that we move on to the second item of the agenda and that the Minister of Transport and Communications should also come along and make it clear here whether this amendment - in short, the government should be defined to it and then we can proceed with this item of the agenda. We interrupt, continue with the second item on the agenda, so that there would be no apparent delay in the work of the National Assembly, and it is likely that work will continue with this item on the agenda next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	Mr Čebulj, on behalf of the Government and under the authority of the Minister for Transport, represents the interest of the government, Mr Slana, who has the right to or does not have the right to be defined for the amendment, and the position of the Government was presented here that it does not agree with the amendment. If you insist on a procedural proposal to stop the point in order to define the government, I will put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	I certainly insist that it ceases. Look, Madam Vice President. The Secretary of State has said well that it is closer to a solution, but he cannot give an opinion as to whether the amendment is appropriate and afraid - in short, I estimate that he is afraid that someone will take such responsibility and that the government will be defined and that we will continue next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Your Honor! Mr Čebul's procedural proposal to end this item of the agenda and wait for the definition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia until the amended text of the amendment to Article 113 is put to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 31. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted, so we continue the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment to Article 113. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The amendment was voted 24 to 19. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 114. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 1. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 117. It's an amendment to the government. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the government to Article 118. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against no one. [[The vote was 30.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 119. This is the government's amendment and the committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 31 against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Two amendments are tabled under Article 125, namely the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the Government and under the two basic amendments of the Government and the amendment you have on the table, the amendment to Article 125, and the amendment of the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the Government. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gerencher, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	It is a mono-technical amendment to the amendment because one provision has fallen out in our amendment to the amendment which was transmitted in the amendment. So the amendment is now complex and I ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Right now, I find that we're inconclusive. I politely ask my colleagues to take a look. To be able to continue our work without distraction, we will be able to identify the presence. There are 41 of us present, which means that the assembly is inconclusive and cannot continue to make decisions. I ask you politely if your colleagues are in the house to come to the meeting. We'll rediscover the presence, otherwise we'll interrupt the meeting in 10 minutes and continue. We're rediscovering presence. There are 41 of us present. I find that the assembly is inconclusive and cannot make a valid decision. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes, once we've rediscovered the concoction. We continue at 12:00 and 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	Dear fellows and fellows! I respectfully ask that we take our seats and try to do something else in the next hour. We're detecting a presence. I ask you politely to insert your cards. There are 46 of us present. I find that the assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We have remained in the review of the amendments on page 38, and we are moving on to the decision-making process. First, we decide on the revised first amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 37 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment, the amendment of the government. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members of Parliament present. 36 votes in favour, none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 126. Under one is the amendment of the committee to the amendment of the government and under two basic amendments of the government, which the committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 47 Members and Members present. 35 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second basic amendment of the government. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 35 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 135, which is one of the amendments of the government that the Committee supports and is under two of the committees. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the 1st Amendment. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 1. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment, the amendment of the committee. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 36 votes against 1. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 136, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to amend Chapter 10 and Chapter 10.1, which is an amendment of the Government, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 48 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Two amendments were tabled under Article 154. The amendment under 1 has been withdrawn, so I am opening the debate on the amendment under order number 2. It's an amendment to the government. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 154.a. This is an amendment from the government which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to change the subtitle. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 155. Under 1 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Committee supports. We don't have two amendments anymore because he's been removed. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the first amendment to Article 155. There are 46 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 155.a. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 46 Members and Members are present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate and the decision on the amendment to Article 156. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're lassing. There are 46 Members and Members present. 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the government to 157th Article, the amendment committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I take it we're once again inconclusive. So that we can make a valid decision, I can see the presence. I note that there are 47 of us again, so I am putting to the vote an amendment to 157. It's an amendment to the government. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I accidentally skipped the decision on the government's amendment to Article 156, so I ask that we vote again. We vote on the amendment to Article 156. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a vote on the two amendments to Article 158, which is under 1 the amendment of the Committee and under 2 the amendment of the Government, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 34, one against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the government's amendment under 2. [[The ad from the bench.]] We're making a decision right now. Procedurally, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	Chairman, thank you very much. Not because of us, Madam President, but we also have observers on the balcony and someone can count and see that there are not so many of us in the hall, but you know where this leads. We must arrange these matters in this national assembly as it has already been suggested that there should be no such notification, but it is simply by voting that we are as many of us in the Chamber. That's not how it works, you understand, not because of me. Let's go, because we can vote, the world won't collapse, but it's about the system, it's about the observers, it's about the public, it's about democracy. Let's get this sorted out!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thanks for the heads-up. Please see if any card of your colleagues is inserted and incorrectly shows the presence of any of our colleagues. Since there are 44 of us, we are once again inconclusive. We will rediscover the presence and find out that we can make a valid decision. There are 44 of us present. We'll find out again, then we'll stop the meeting again, as the Rules of Procedure say, in 10 minutes. I'm rediscovering the presence. Since there are 45 of us present, this means that the National Assembly is not concluded. I'm adjourning the session for another presence. [[...]] There are 46 of us present. I take it that the assembly is recommenced and may decide on a valid basis. We remained in the decision on the second amendment of the government to Article 158. We are voting on this amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 158a. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 159. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 38 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment for the new subtitle 10/3, this is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 160. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to amend the subtitle for Article 160. It's an amendment to the government. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? Because we're not moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 161 or just the first because the second was withdrawn. Under one is the amendment of the government, which the committee supports. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	I wouldn't say anything about the contents of the amendment itself, but it's shaped a little bit strangely, because there's also the sounding used here. "In the pricing process referred to in the preceding paragraph, the operator of the public airport shall..." Also: "...at a public airport, the operator of the public airport and the suppliers of groundhandling services for third parties is obliged to produce tariffs as a basis for determining...", so that the matter should be settled a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. At the end of the decision on the amendments, we will also adopt an editorial amendment, the content of which is that, when drafting, the penal amendments will also be corrected appropriately and we will add other provisions. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. I am putting an amendment under one to the vote, this is an amendment by the government to Article 161. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 162. This is an amendment from the government which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 36, 2 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on two amendments for the new 162.a. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee and under 2 amendments of the Government, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 34 votes against no one. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the second amendment, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 163. The Committee supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the government's amendment to Article 164. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 167. It's an amendment to the board. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Again, too few Members and Members are present. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you to find your colleagues, though. It would be very good if the National Assembly ended today, at least to try to conclude this law at this hour. In the future, we still have very similar laws, with many amendments, and the question is when will the National Assembly be able to conclude its regular session. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 167. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 176 to the debate. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 177. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the Government's amendment to Article 178, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I take it we're back to being inconclusive. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I agree that we are all tired, but I respectfully ask that we maintain so much concentration and continue with the next 20 pages of the amendments. I am making an amendment to Article 178 to the Government's decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Government to Article 179. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Government to Article 180. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the government to Article 181. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 182. The Committee supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 183. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want a debate? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 184. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want a debate? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. There were 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 185. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 186. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 187. The amendment is supported by the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the government's amendment to Article 188. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 189. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 190. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment of the government to Article 192. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We are once again inconclusive. We're locked in again. This is how we can decide on the amendment of the government to Article 192. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 193 under 1 is the amendment of the Government which the Committee supports and is under 2 is the amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. I'm putting the first amendment to the vote. It's the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. It's an amendment to the board. We're voting. Fellows, I respectfully ask that, however - given my sense that no one has left the hall, the result of the indiscretion with the manual count, and also the screen shows that we are concluding again. [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment, the amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment of the government to Article 194. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 195. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new 195.a. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 196. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 197. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. There were 40 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 202. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 204. The amendment committee supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the party of young Slovenia to Article 206. The amendment committee does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I know it's unusual to call at this hour this Friday, but allow me to support the amendment of the Youth Group. I must admit that, at the Group of Members, we have also accepted the initiative of the Air Safety Engineers and Technicians Society, which are in our letter, I think that all the groups of Members have also explained why it is important that, in the 206th Article, which deals with restrictions on work obligations, in the last paragraph, which was amended in the second reading, which reads as follows: 'the working time of the Air Traffic Supervisor must not exceed 160 hours per month or 442 hours in three consecutive months', so that this last paragraph is supplemented by 'the working time of the air navigation services', and then the same content. With this, I could also say perhaps a union aspect, but in the broadest sense of the word, I think it would be right to accept such an amendment and thus allow all these services to have the conditions laid down in the law. But I do know that colleague Jelinčič will oppose this amendment. And I was convinced by the representatives of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment, and I also suggest that your colleagues do not support it. After all, the working hours of the operational workers of air navigation services have already been Bennified in one way or another, and they also draw ratings from those times when, for example, radiation in certain areas has been very high. That's not going to happen today. The rest of them are ratings from before, now they're demanding extra ratings here. I don't know if you're our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Jelinčič for a moment. According to the information I have, this is a very minimal increase in costs. In particular, it would be right for these workers to equalise their status. The technical service has additional burdens, if I mention some, of working under all weather conditions, of working at a height, of self-control of devices and systems in flight control and of related stress, in the event of failures, all responsibility on the technical service worker, as it owes it at the earliest time, at any time, to remedy the situation, since in the event of a failure, air safety is reduced. That, I admit, is what I took from the point of view of this society. These issues were also raised on the Committee. Well, I'm guessing these reasons are convincing, so I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. So I don't understand this amendment in this unionist sense. Above all, I believe that this is a matter of aviation safety, so I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment has nothing to do with security, nothing to do with it. But the fact is, if we just let certain societies form such things here, and because of the likeness and misunderstanding, Members will support them, I think that the laws will be even worse than they already are.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	I apologize, but I would just like to call on a government representative if he can reach out to this debate and explain to us those of us who are not so brought into this issue what the government is like and why it has taken the position that is stated in the Government's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Slana, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. If I come from the position adopted by the Government in Article 206a, which deals with a similar issue, the Government considers that these issues need to be addressed within the framework of labour law. However, given that today the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 160, which will require the preparation of a specific law to provide air navigation services, - if the State Assembly so decides - the government will be obliged to resolve these issues in that law. Otherwise, we believe that this needs to be addressed through labour legislation, comprehensively, for all employees or collective agreements, certain issues which are otherwise proposed in Article 206.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Young Slovenia Party to Article 206. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 23 votes to 23. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 23]] . I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Article 206.a, namely, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, the Committee does not support it, and under the 2 amendments of the SMS which the Committee does not support, by noting that the amendment of the SMS Group concerns Article 206.a. Anybody want to talk? Mr Jelinčič and Mr Podobnik. First of all, Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I suggest that both amendments be rejected here as well. It is the fact that these workers already have a long leave on the basis of the benefits, and with these additional 15 days of special leave they would in fact have over 60 working days of leave. This is, of course, an attempt by some services to gain certain ratings, but this is in violation of world standards, but I think even more in conflict with Slovenian standards, even if we take into account the burden of Slovenian airports and staff.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I don't think he has any record of 60 working days off. According to the material he's got in front of him, that's not what he's holding. I would like to support the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members. Of course, my performance does not in any way mean that anything I do against flight controllers, who have already fully complied with their requirements at the stage of adopting legislation with their organisation. However, it was clearly the society of air safety engineers and technicians, and despite the fact that these two articles dealt with the issue of labour law, leisure leave and work obligation, we are unfortunately in article 42, where security was involved, but also in article 23, if I am not mistaken, it was a status. I am confident that, even in terms of relations within the collective and in this service, it will be positive if we adopt the amendment, as proposed by the Socialist Group of Members. I also believe that the data I have that this is fully in line with European standards is not at odds.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 18 to 30. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democracy of Slovenia has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 25. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the government to Article 208. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 36.1 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 211. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for the new 212.a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 213. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee and under 2 amendments of the government. By footnote 1, if the amendment of the Committee is adopted, the amendment of the Government is irrelevant because it is substantively covered by the amendment of the Committee under 1. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on the first amendment. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has been adopted, which means that the amendment under 2 is irrelevant. And we don't vote on it. That's the only way we're gonna end up with an editorial amendment. The amendment of the board. Would you like to discuss the editorial amendment, Mrs. Potrat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Yeah. Thank you for your word. If this is an editorial amendment to Article 161 on the 52nd page of which a respected colleague of Malovar spoke about, then I must say that I do not support this editorial intervention simply because the word order in this sentence is different from that of the ordinary one, since it may have confused the fact that it is a purely ordinary match between the sermon and the specimen and is a form, the plural form, "the operator must be," which is the first word, "and the performers", this plural form should be retained. It is true, however, that the link is also slightly visible in the style view and we are more accustomed to seeing the link and. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much, ma'am. Spending. Allow me to explain. I'm the one who made a embarrassing statement about the explanation myself. The explanation of the services is that the secretariat, when preparing the text, somehow by official duty, corrects all errors in slopes and vocabularies in the normal edition. So if no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision on the editorial amendment, which is the amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Already in view of the extensive changes in this stage of the legislative procedure, which state that some are also completely conceptual in nature, we believe that the amendments adopted undermine mutual compliance in certain provisions of the legislative text. We believe that this non-compliance is present in Article 30, under Article 31, paragraph 4, in Articles 100, 101, 102, 119 and 121, due to the need for proper application of the terms "aircraft operator", "turners of other infrastructure facilities at airports" instead of "controllers". Furthermore, in Article 107, in the second paragraph, in order to comply with Article 125, in conjunction with Article 123. In the second paragraph of Article 155, where a new solution in Article 5a is to be taken into account and to be linked to the national programme and airport programmes. Article 156a establishes non-conformity within the Article, including paragraphs 2 and 6 of this Article. However, large-scale changes will also require further certain corrections, as voted on, in criminal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-02-23-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Therefore, since the law is mutually inconsistent, I interrupt this agenda item to prepare the harmonisation amendments and ask the government representative to prepare the harmonisation amendments by Tuesday. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since it probably makes no sense for us to continue, given the time, at the conclusion of this day's meeting, I would just like to inform you that on Tuesday, 27.2.2001, at 2 p.m., we will continue with the adjourned 1st item of the agenda, when three questions from members of the opposition will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek. In the course of the meeting, the assembly will move on to the 26th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a bill on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence, then the 4th item has been suspended for consideration, this is the proposal for an aviation law if the harmonisation amendments are prepared by then, and in order to proceed. Thank you so much for a nice weekend and good-bye!
