ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning, good morning. Good morning and good day for those of you who get up later. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Anton Delak, Pavel Rupar, Mario Gasparini, Branko Kelemina, Franc Čebulj, Bogdan Barovich from 12 noon onwards, Anton Partljič, Jelko Kacin, Richard Beumann, Borut Suklje for the afternoon part of the session, Mr Beumann for start. So much for that. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. I find there are 59 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned. It can be decided. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them very much. Today's continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 13th item on the agenda, this is a proposal for a telecommunications law. In doing so, I would like to inform you that Mr Pahor, President of the National Assembly, has raised the question to the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. We have sent this opinion to all leaders of the groups of Members today. It is about how we should act now that the initiative to collect signatures for the invitation to tender for the previous legislative referendum has been tabled. From this letter, you can understand that we can have our first consideration today. At that time, the president of the National Assembly will also be able to identify or respond to the initiators. In view of this, we will also see whether it will be possible to continue to deal with this law in the context of this meeting or later, as we have had before in the law of the referendum and of the people's initiative. For the first reading of the Telecommunications Act, we will continue with the consideration of the interrupted 10th point, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the census law, households and housing law in the Republic of Slovenia in 2001, says 2002. Then we will go to the third point, this is the proposal of the Veterinary Act, and then to the 11th point, this is the proposal of the law on customs measures for infringements of intellectual property rights, and then in the order of order. Mr. Anderlich, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u2	I hope that I have correctly understood your introductory definition that today we can only have a first reading. Although I believe that the last paragraph in the opinion of the secretariat is rather strange, it is a matter of a political definition of the need to be defined. So you took either the leadership of the assembly this paragraph so that you decided that today we could have a first hearing. This opinion, however, suggests that we can also have a second reading. I suggest we have a first and second hearing at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u3	Given that we have already done exactly that in the law on the referendum and the human initiative and no one has protested at the time of the hearing, I think that there are all the reasons why we should do today only the first hearing. That's the first argument. The second is that - see, if we were to decide on a second treatment, we have thus limited the actual possibility in the third reading, according to the course of the proceedings. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u4	We can easily resolve this dilemma so that we do not negotiate what manner of manners or what kind of conduct it was, for in our national congregation, it is roughly so that when the leadership responds to it, it does not consult anyone about anything, but when it answers to him to take responsibility for someone else, he consults and then the responsibility is shared. In this case, you have decided on your own and I propose that we vote to have a second reading. If the practice of the law on the referendum and the people's initiative has already been such, then of course you can go back to the previous term or to the previous term, where we have done more, not the first and the second, even the third readings under the same rules. I therefore propose that you put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u5	We will give the representative of the government the floor to see, however, the Minister's position on this matter. Please, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The government also believes that a second reading of the Telecommunications Act can be carried out today. The only reason that you might be against or that does not exist is because in the review of these amendments there is also an amendment that regulates the return on investments. This amendment is an initiative. Therefore, there is no reason why we should stop the second treatment because it is possible to follow an amendment which cannot be technically incorporated into the law in the third reading. So the second treatment can be completed to the end and wait for the outcome of future events, for me to know the very sad ones in this area, and, of course, then, I hope to end the third treatment as soon as possible. Since there are no technical reasons, the government proposes that a second hearing be held today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. First of all, I must tell Mr Anderlich that I reject such a dialogue, which would give him the impression that it is some will of the leadership of the National Assembly. It's just me sticking to the law. Article 17 of the third paragraph of the Act states very clearly that if an initiative is given to apply for the invitation to tender for a preliminary referendum, the national assembly may not begin the third examination of the draft law before the expiry of the period referred to in the preceding paragraph. Excuse me. However, since it is logical, due to the legislative procedure, that if we carry out a second hearing, then there is no way that the referendum will be passed into law or that is actually an obstacle, we will be doing this significantly differently now in the telecommunications law, as we did in the referendum law and in the people's initiative. These are double criteria. And these double criteria are proposed by you. Mr. Jakič, there is no debate on this matter. No, I don't discuss it. I'm just explaining as chairman of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, no. I'll suggest the following. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u8	Mr. Vice President, you're debating. First of all, you're discussing and you're interpreting legislation. If it were correct, you would give your interpretation, which you have just read, to the vote of the National Assembly to see whether we agree with the interpretation or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u9	Don't teach me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u10	Mr. Anderlich was not talking about the third treatment, but he was talking about doing one and the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u11	Mr Jakič, Mr Jakič, don't teach me what to do. Please. Let me do what I think is right. And all I do is point out what's in the law and point out who's taking responsibility in some matter. I say that we will act contrary to the rules of the game, not only against the decency we have shown in the first debate of the Law on People's Initiative, but this is the responsibility of the National Assembly. Anyone who wants to make a decision will be able to make a decision. That is to say, the proposal made by Mr Anderlich is that the Telecommunications Act will be dealt with today, i.e. at first reading and second reading. This is a formal proposal I am putting to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 Members present, 32 to 33 were in favour of Mr Anderlic's proposal. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 33.]] The proposal is not accepted. So we move on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, this is for the first reading of the law on telecommunications, a quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members! With the Telecommunications Act, which I sincerely believed would be adopted in the coming days, we will obviously only have a first hearing and then a second and a third. This is a very important marriage. It goes, honourable Members and Members, for one of the last system laws [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u13	May I ask my colleagues to listen to the Minister!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u14	In part, it apologized that some of my positions had already been heard on the Committee on the Economy, but still. [[...]] This is one of the last systems laws that will now regulate one of the most important areas, namely telecommunications, telecommunications markets and information services. Of course, the importance of telecommunications for the development of state-of-the-art information of society does not indicate a loss of words. However, it is necessary to mention a number of processes that substantially change this area, the telecommunications and information services market, and provide a framework for a wider social and technological development, in which, once adopted, the telecommunications law will be incorporated. It is a merger and integration of telecommunications services, data, sound, images, speech within a single and one telecommunications network. It is the convergence of telecommunications, information and media techniques and technologies. It is mobility and accessibility, regardless of time and geographical location, and it is about globalisation of networks and services. Experience from both the European space and the world has shown that the benefits of modern developments in IT and these services are only possible if the telecommunications and telecommunications services are liberalised. This is what leads to progress, this is what reduces the price in the long and medium term, increases the volume of the offer and, of course, enables substantial variety of forms of work, business communication, etc. Liberalisation in the European Union began in 1987 and is continuing and will continue in the years ahead. The first more shy steps towards liberalisation in Slovenia have been taken with the current telecommunications law. Of course, harmonisation with European Union legislation is one of the main objectives in addition to the liberalisation of this market. Of course, the liberalisation of this market also means regulation, a true set of rules and regulations on the methodology and guidelines allowing for an equal competition between providers and players in the information and telecommunications services market. Regulation means, of course, rules for the access of new operators to networks, licensing, joint use of waters and installations, regulation of the untiement of so-called local loops, rules for the prevention of disturbances. All this, all this regulatory area and the regulatory instruments prescribed by this law and the sub-legislative acts and rules that are to be created or are to be produced must be as far away from the policy as possible from the European Union directives in the independent regulatory body established by this law, and this is the telecommunications agency and also for broadcasting, as the media law also imposes. This also means deregulation, such as the abolition of state approval of radio stations and terminal equipment, a series of unnecessary applications and knowledge and similar matters in this area. The principles of the law are thus, in addition to liberalisation, the communication market, including ensuring openness and accessibility to telecommunications networks, taking into account the benefits of users, harmonising with the legal order, ensuring the public of work, transparency of procedures and publication of the conditions of state administration and of the Agency, ensuring equal opportunities for participants in the telecommunications services market, encouraging new providers when entering the market for these services, preventing the exploitation of the dominant market situation and other abuses on the market, and, of course, controlling and regulating competition. All of this is extensive and well worked out in this law. What this law is not - I must make this very clear, although, of course, it is in vain - I must stress once again that this law is not a law on the return of excessive investment by individuals and local communities in the construction of a public telecommunications network. Several times it has been stressed that this is a system law governing telecommunications, but not an area related to the privatisation of one of the leading or largest state-owned companies, 66.5% plus 11% under control, and therefore that this law cannot regulate this area and cannot further regulate this area. This, by the way, has also been adopted by the initiators of the previous referendum. At the same time, this is not the law on the privatisation of Telekom. Privatisation of Telekom, when the time is right, will take place through other regulations that are likely to be governed by the Public Finance Act. [[changes]] and, of course, other regulations and legislation in this area. I would also like to mention in particular that there is no point in hiding my disappointment at the initiative put forward. The initiative is paradoxical, referring specifically to an article submitted as an amendment by the Committee on the Economy, where it obliges the Government to draw up a law within six months to regulate the return of individuals to the public telecommunications network in local communities. In this way, we have provided the legal basis that exists under the current law that exists in the Constitutional Court's decision, and we have also regulated this legal basis in this law, with a view to resolving this issue on the basis of a second law and on the basis of processes that are also taking place in the privatisation of Telekom and so on, also on the basis of a thorough analysis of these investments. The Ministry is preparing a study and will also publish a White Paper on investment and on who and what is losing in this area and who and when has received it in this area. Unfortunately, delaying the adoption of this law, I would like to stress very much that the postponement of the adoption of the Telecommunications Act also means the postponement of the adoption of the Return on Investment Act. Those who have submitted this initiative have, of course, done a bear service to those who advocate return. Of course, they have done a bear a service for the development of the Slovenian telecommunications market and the fact that a large number of entrepreneurs, a large number of operators in this area will have to spend a few more unregulated dry months, which will, of course, impoverish Slovenian entry and Slovenian developments in telecommunications. So much for that, of course. We believe, of course, that we will clear these issues in the coming months and that this law will be adopted only in time, which are still appropriate and would not be too damaging to the development of the economy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. The proposal was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion and the Committee to the proposal for this law. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State and co-worker! Allow me to briefly present some of the essential components of the reports you have received. I hope you don't mind if I don't read extensive reports. The Committee on the Economy, as a parent of the labour force, has paid great attention to the consideration of the proposal for a telecoms law, which is understandable in view of the importance and complexity and delicacy of this law. He devoted two sessions to this. First session, 14. 2. addressed the objectives and the concept of the law and adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the law in a rapid manner, as proposed by the Government. In doing so, the arguments already raised by Mr Minister that the law should be adopted as soon as possible, particularly for three reasons, prevailed. Firstly, in order to harmonise telecommunications legislation with the acquis of the European Union. This is part of the European Union's state programme for the takeover of the acquis. Secondly, due to internal economic needs, mainly due to the opening up of the telecommunications market. Thirdly, I would like to point out that, following a decision by the European Council in Helsinki in December 1999, the area of telecommunications, in addition to the modernisation of the common European market and the introduction of the euro, is the next priority of electronic Europe and thus ensuring an effective flow of information. However, the condition for this is, of course, to regulate and open up the telecommunications market. At this meeting, the Committee decided, at the proposal of the SDS and New Slovenia Group of Members, to organise and organise a public presentation of the opinions of 5.3. this year. I must say that the participation was very large, over 90 participants, experts, Members, representatives of interested institutions and local communities, representatives of associations of telecommunications investors in the past, and so on, which is of great interest in this issue. The main part of the debate - the summary was drawn up and forwarded to all members of the Committee on the Economy and also to all parliamentary groups - is also available a magnetogram - the main part of the debate was devoted to the problem or to the requirement to regulate the return of investments to individuals and local communities on the telecommunications network, given the large differences or imbalances in investment in the past. The smaller part of the debate referred to the proposed solutions in the law itself as a system law for telecommunications. Let me mention just some of the issues: the area of competition, network openness, universal services, the role and tasks of the Agency and some other comments. These comments were certainly useful for the further work of the committee and also for the consideration of this law at the meeting of the assembly. The secretariat, as you have seen from the material, has made numerous comments and most or a large part of these comments have been taken into account by both the government and the committee. As a result, they have also tabled a series of amendments. Some comments from the public presentation of opinions were also taken into account. The question that was most debated, which was said in the quotations, is somehow "disputable" from the beginning of the consideration of the bill at the meetings of the Committee and also in the public presentation of opinions and which is also the reason for the submission of the referendum initiative, is the regulation of the way and conditions for the return of investments to the telecommunications network. The Committee on the Economy, after a thorough discussion of the arguments, both Members and in the public presentation of the opinions, has also defined the solution that we have understood as a solution to be proposed by the representatives of investors in the public presentation of opinions, as well as by individual Members on the Committee on the Economy, in order to introduce the draft law into the transitional and final provisions - and this is an amendment to the new 156.a Article - a provision for the Government to submit within six months a proposal for a law on the way and conditions for the resolution of the issue of investments, with the aim of unblocking the consideration and adoption of the law and eliminating the lack of confidence, which was apparently already in the debate at the first meeting of the Committee, also by individual Members, not believing in the promise of the government or in the assurance of the Minister at the Committee's meeting that the Government would prepare a proposal for a law, as the Constitutional Court has also said. At the same time, the Committee considered that there were two reasons why this issue could not be dealt with in detail. First, for the principle reason that this is not the subject of this system law. Secondly, that this issue relates to the privatisation of Telekom, and the further argument, on time, if we want and need to adopt the law as soon as possible, it is not realistic for us to settle this issue professionally and publicly responsible also in this law without further delay in the adoption of the law. The delay in the adoption of the law would also, according to the Committee's assessment, be of national economic harm and could also to some extent impede the European Union's proximity. Therefore, at the end of the consideration of the draft law and with the support of the amendments proposed by the Government and at the time of the adoption of its own amendments, the Committee decided, in its review, to propose to the National Assembly that it adopt as soon as possible the draft law and amendments which the Committee supports and which the Committee itself is making. I would not take this opportunity now to comment on the proposed initiative, as this will be discussed later on. However, I would like to reiterate that it is in the basic requirement that the law be incorporated into the law and that it be transposed meaningfully from the existing telecommunications law in order to regulate the legally regulated resolution of the investments of individuals and local communities, that this is also ensured by the amendment proposed by the Committee in the new 156.a. The government initially proposed a longer period to submit a law within one year, while we assessed on the Committee that the matter was urgent and that a shorter deadline was needed and that we therefore proposed a deadline of 6 months. There was no particular debate at the time on what is now being proposed in the referendum initiative that the National Assembly should adopt a special commitment on the law when it will also adopt the law. I think that from the practice so far, this has actually been unusual and it is also a question of how effective this is. However, if the overall assessment of the assembly was such that it was necessary and useful, it would also be possible to do so further in the consideration of the law by correcting or modifying this proposed amendment of the committee. In fact, this would make the referendum initiative irrelevant. But I say this is not the position of the committee, as a result of what the committee proposes, what the position has been taken and is connected with whether the intention is to really resolve the issue of investment in an corrective way and to adopt the law as soon as possible, or whether there are other intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u17	Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. They have applied in writing for the debate on behalf of the groups of Members, first Mr Rokavec and then Mr Sok. Here you go, please. Without restricting the debate in any way, I would like to remind you of Rule 183 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that in this first reading we are talking about reasons, principles, objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Dear government officials! We are considering a proposal for a law that will definitively lay down the rules of the game in the open market for telecommunications services. That marriage is urgently needed is more than obvious, especially if we see what is happening in this area today when the old marriage has survived and is not yet new. No one is likely to benefit, probably more in harm's way, even in the development of telecommunications, and especially in the emergence of competition. However, if we can all agree that the law is urgently needed, we must ask ourselves whether the law that we have just begun to deal with will really speed up the development of telecommunications in our country. I believe that this is the basic objective of the new law, but I am not sure that this will be the case. In the SLS+SKD Group, the Slovenian People's Party considers that the law deals too much with the details of how to place competition on the market under favourable conditions, and less how it will force future operators and service providers to ensure, in addition to their pure business interests, the even development of telecommunications throughout Slovenia. Let us not pretend that competition will first come to the area covered by Telekom Slovenije by its network and services today, especially not in remote rural areas. Too much capital would have to be invested in these areas and too little profit would have been generated in this invested area. As in other countries where the market is already open, competition will also focus on the most profitable services for us to collect so-called cream. Universal public services and networks will continue to be at the back of our national operator. The construction and maintenance of infrastructure is known to be the most expensive and at the same time the least profitable activity. Telekom Slovenije, who will remain the predominant operator for a long time, with more than 80% of the market share, is thus ordered in the bill to build, provide universal services without the right to compensation. We agree to assign him responsibility for the further development of infrastructures of national and local importance and the provision of universal services, since otherwise no one will worry about it. He doesn't have to be compensated either. However, we probably need to create such conditions that he will also be commercially interested in investing everywhere in Slovenia, which simply means that we need to provide him with prices that will cover actual costs and which will also include a part of development or, if you want, profit. With this law in force, Telekom will cease to be a public company, which means that he will operate as any other economic organisation. However, no one, nor the state, can limit prices and even less force them to lose in any segment of their operation, unless we provide mechanisms to cover this loss. That's probably an illusion. I can hardly imagine a liberalised market if one of the competitors is clipped by our wings. That is why I think the sentence of the proposal that the operator with significant market power should design prices at actual costs is controversial. Covering only the actual costs means that there is no profit and without profit there will be no development. In the past, Telekom Slovenije has been solving these issues by spilling resources from profitable market services - some prices of market telecommunications services are also likely to be relatively high for our situation, as there is no room for manoeuvre if we want to operate positively and naturally in a developmental manner. According to the proposal we are considering, the transfer of assets from activity to activity or the subsidisation of services should be prohibited. So where's the money, the money for investment in public service development? Therefore, I believe that the proposal for a law in those parts that talk about linking the price to actual costs should at least be supplemented by the "plus means of development" dictatorship. Otherwise, it seems to me that the development of telecommunications will begin to stagnate. We were able to hear and read a lot about the so-called support of the local loop. If I understand correctly, we are discussing the access of any future operator to existing Telekom subscribers and, of course, their acquisition. All right, I agree that competition must be, but as I am aware, the infrastructure has not yet been developed to such an extent that free access can be ensured to every single contracting entity If I am not mistaken, all contracting entities bound to twin or multichannel PCM devices are exempted from this. And they're at least 20%. Here I am asked the principle of whether we can define something in the law that is not accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If the applicant has in mind, in particular, free access to the largest contracting entities, i.e. businesses, institutions etc., on which future competitors will first be launched, the case is certainly twice as controversial. If local loops have not been opened so far in most countries of the European Union - a good example is Britain - where the market has been liberalised for several years, we see no reason to rush with us. If we want a truly competitive market, we will have to do so, but first we need to ensure conditions that will, of course, be equal for all. A key question is how long does a national fixed telephony operator have the ability to remove any serious reservations to open a local loop and to introduce this deadline into the law. In this regard, we have also proposed an amendment to Article 65 and an amendment to Article 149 in the framework of the parliamentary group. I think that the conditions for opening the local loop should be clearly regulated and, on the other hand, a transitional period should also be allowed for this opening of the local loop. I am convinced that a two-year period is minimal if we are to in some way also safeguard the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. It also seems to me that without the proposed corrections, we will do all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia a bear service and, of course, bring our national operator to his knees. But probably, at least I hope the purpose of the law isn't in this direction. Before I conclude my thoughts on investing in telephony or telecommunications services. The fact is that in many areas of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens have invested significantly greater financial resources in the past decades, especially in the period until 1980 and something else, to obtain and install the necessary telecommunications network. By this title and on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 1.7.1999, they are entitled to claim that the meetings are to be reimbursed for excessive investment. Here, in fact, I would criticise the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also the Ministry of Sectoral Affairs that in the proposal, the basic bill did not in any way take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which should in some way be implemented by 1.7.2000. I think there's irresponsible behavior here. The events of the last days probably also show that in this area the government, and above all the department, has made serious mistakes, which in some ways hinder the speedy adoption of laws and regulations in this area. We believe in the Group of Members that the amendment of the Committee on the Economy does not fully address this issue. The amendment of the Committee on the Economy says that within six months the government should submit a special law regulating the way and conditions for the return of surplus inputs to the construction of the telecommunications network to citizens. But don't say anything about when the law will be passed. And secondly, the question raised in this amendment is at least double. Indeed, the fact is that it is the intention of the Government already in the financial year 2001 to begin the privatisation of Telekom in order to fill the financial deficit. In the parliamentary group, we ask what will help the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the law in a year or two when Telekom is privatised from which title the State of Slovenia will be able to comply with the requirement or decision of the Constitutional Court. That is why I myself have proposed to supplement the amendment of the Committee on the Economy, I believe that this is an article 156.a which would in some way have made it clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must not accede to the privatisation of Telekom until the adoption of the special law laid down in the first paragraph of this Article. We will, of course, also make a commitment to the government in some way to take this project seriously and to prepare this law as quickly as possible, and the National Assembly will also adopt that specific law. In the SLS+SK Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we would like with the proposed comments and amendments that the Republic of Slovenia, when adopting the new Telecommunications Act, will protect its national interest and ensure that all telecommunications services are equally accessible to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Rokavec. Mr Sok will speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. As the speaker has already said before me, this law deals with matters relating to the regulation of telecommunications activities in the Republic of Slovenia and contains solutions that are known today in European Union legislation. We have no comments on this part of the law in Novi Slovenija. The law before us has been put into Parliament by the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk, the current government has withdrawn this law and has continued the procedure. The amendments that have been tabled to this law are a major part, I would say, of editorial nature and the National Assembly could really adopt the law by very quick procedure. It is true, however, that the current government in this law has abandoned or deleted those articles of the law that dealt with a very pressing issue, this is the decision of overpaid investments in the development of telecommunications in the Republic of Slovenia. The law of the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk was introduced into the parliamentary procedure in September 2000 and also contained provisions on the return of investments in the development of telephony. Both natural persons and local communities, which, in 1974-1997 under contracts, either with local communities or under contracts with the then PTSD, invested money in the construction of telephones, would have received this money back in the ownership process of Telekom. The law provided that the liable person for the return of the Republic of Slovenia would be reimbursed to investors the difference between today's price of telephone connection and the corresponding valorised price paid at the time by the acquisition of telephone connection. Applicants would receive a difference within 12 months of the adoption of this Act or after the execution of the ownership of Telekom. As has already been said, the new government has deleted these provisions of the law. The new government has removed from the bill the provision on reimbursement of excessively high amounts of investment in the development of telephony. Government officials are now comforting affected citizens to get their money through a special law regulating Telekom's ownership. However, the competent minister is also not inclined to repay money and says that a good part of these investments should be reimbursed to local communities through a programme to develop and modernise the telecommunications infrastructure in the areas of individual local communities. The return on money is only to be taken into account in the cases of hill settlements and individual separate farms. At least that's how I understood his discussion in the Trojans. The beneficiaries of overpaid investments in the construction of the telecommunications network increasingly demand from the government the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision, after which the government should already draw up a proposal for a special law on the return of overpaid deposits. Such distortions undoubtedly reinforce the impression that the government is trying to play the Constitutional Court's decision on the same principle as it was used last year to end the referendum on the majority electoral system. At that time, the Constitutional Court ruled that Parliament should take into account the results of the referendum on the majority electoral system by amending this constitutional provision in such a way that the advocates of the majority system could no longer invoke it. They also now want to replace the old Telecommunications Act, to which the Constitutional Court decision relates, with a new law that would no longer have this provision, under which citizens would be entitled, to repay overpaid contributions to telephone connections. This would lead to the disappearance of the legal basis for the recovery of deposits, for the construction of a telephone network. Then even the constitutional court could no longer help the victims. So this is how we see this problem in New Slovenia. Minister Pavel Gantar has already said at his presentation that this money, which should have been returned for overpaid investments, is somewhere around 30 billion SIT. This means that the government has these data at this time. Now here we are told by the Minister that it is a system law and that returning is not part of this law, but that it will be regulated in the new law. But people don't believe it. In 1993, Mr Minister, people received certificates signed by Dr. Janez Drnovska, but to date this problem has not been resolved. All the values set out on those certificates will be destroyed in a short time. The only thing that happened in the eight, nine years of the government of Drnovska about this privatisation hole is that you changed the terms. Instead of a privatisation hole, you're talking about a privatisation gap. You also say, Mr Minister, that the initiative is paradoxical and that you do not hide disappointments about this initiative. And I'm asking you how to hide the disappointment of those people in our country who, if I say so in brands, have invested 9,000 and more DEMs that in 1974 they came to such a desired phone. They don't believe they'll get anything out of it today. If they do not get it, the demographically threatened areas will be further affected, as these are the areas where the biggest investment has been made. Those who have taken the initiative, regardless of your findings, have done the only thing they have left at the moment. If this issue were settled by the government in this law before us, there would be no such initiative and no rejection of this law, which must be adopted quickly, nor would it. So don't blame, Mr. Minister, those who have taken the initiative, but perhaps say, "Mea culpa - mea maxima culpa". I ask you, therefore, whether you really had a sincere desire to adopt this law, why you did not at the same time introduce a law on privatisation or ask you why you do not agree that the provision on return would be entered into this law and that Parliament could confirm this law by a large majority. And no signature collection, no previous referendum, would be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Blaž Kavčič will speak. Please, that's nice. And then after him, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u22	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! [[...]] [[The microphone's off.]] This should actually work automatically, the microphone. [[...]] Yeah. Can you hear me, buddy? So telecommunications is infrastructure infrastructure. On this basis we also prescribe the regulation of this area in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia very important. Infrastructure infrastructure means that telecommunications have an extremely strong induction impact, both on the competitive power of the economy and on the quality of life. Many coalitionly agreed objectives regarding the creation of more friendly procedures for citizens when they come into situations of communication with public authorities or other administrative services are closely linked to the finding of quality telecommunications infrastructure. We therefore assess that the adoption of this law is necessary in order to establish a normal market structure in the field of telecommunications. We estimate that, in technical terms, what we have Slovenians present in the field of telecommunications is quite quality. Our telecommunications network is fully digitised, both in the field of communication and transmission. There is already a very high level of equipment for more demanding user segments with services such as ISDN and similar. When we considered the Telecommunications Act, of course we tried to view this law as a law that does not cover telecom issues by Telekom Slovenije and a law that does not cover issues related to initiatives to return investments to the telecommunications network. Apart from what was also the decision of the Economic Committee, the Government's commitment to deal with this issue in a special law within six months. At all stages of the debate on the telecommunications law, this issue of return has always come back to the fore. Unfortunately, I must say that this issue has been dealt with in many different ways, which is not bad. However, there was also a great deal of populism, incompetence and flat-rate perceptions. If anything, it is, of course, inappropriate and excessive preconceived that many commentators of these problems are already making a prior statement of injustice, theft, overpayment and so on. We are of course convinced that these are important issues that need to be addressed more closely than may have been the case so far, so we propose or, if properly informed, the government has already approached the development of an objective study that will examine this issue more thoroughly and also serve objective calculations and data to facilitate discussion of the rationale of individual works, organisations, trends that promise or propose to resolve investment infrastructure here. We therefore recommend to the Government that it actually implements this special study and that parliamentarians also take note of the findings of this study. What seems important to us in the telecommunications law at this stage, and we will support this law as proposed by the government - we will also support the amendments of the Committee on the Economy, but we will not support other amendments for reasons that I have already identified in part - it seems important to us in this context that the proposed Law on Telecommunications deals qualitatively with issues related, for the first time, to ensure competition in the Slovenian telecommunications market, and for the second time, it provides universal telecommunications services. I believe that those instigators of return, who would read the definition of universal telecommunications more precisely, might also find answers to a number of their questions in this regard. This law regulates this issue in such a way that universal telecommunications services are accessible to all at an affordable price, including the need for emergency services. We see in this law an important step in protecting the interests of users of telecommunications services by confidentiality and confidentiality of data. This law regulates these matters better than has been the case so far. It then ensures and accelerates competition between telecom operators. It ensures the efficient use of radio spectrum. It provides a better opportunity to exploit the modern achievements of modern technologies and, after all, provides a better opportunity to protect the country's security and defence interests. We would like to draw attention to a few definitions for which it would be more useful to be more precise. One of the definitions is the one he recently dealt with and some suggestions were made by Telekom. It's a matter of calculation. In our view, there is also a somewhat loose definition of price at actual costs. Article 75 itself, paragraph 2, states that prices should cover actual costs, which means they can also exceed them and must at least cover them. In short, we suggest that the government take care of a slightly clearer definition here. We agree, of course, that an operator with a significant market share, which is specifically regulated by this bill, should be systematically allowed to design cost-based prices in such a way as to enable it to operate economically also in the area of the provision of universal telecommunications services. Here it might be useful to define categories slightly more precisely, saying what is actually a cost-based price. Otherwise, we think that the law already represents a quality regulation of this area at this stage. We believe that it is a wise decision to examine the issue of investments, excessive or excessive investments in telecommunications infrastructure first and then, as the government has proposed and the committee has confirmed, to deal with a specific law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Pece will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party, it seems to us that there is too little important argument for us to accept that we need some law to make things change. We believe that this should also be adapted to the content, since the content of the legislation is generally a defect in Slovenian law and shows that we change the laws from day to day, even though it is the same laws. In the field of the Telecommunications Act or the proposal for a Telecommunications Act, which is already explained by the applicant, it is one of the most important things that will change the meaning of the word telecommunications, which will change the thinking of institutions, the connection and the systematisation in this area. In the Slovenian National Party, on the basis of the proposal, as we have been given today at the table, we will not accept it for a simple reason: it is the fact that we are convinced that laws must be adopted life and not with the phrase that has recently been quite popular in our country, this is the E-State. We are convinced that today the National Assembly should adopt two basic positions or two conclusions. Both are already referring to the activities of the Slovenian National Party and other political organisations when adopting the agenda, when we proposed that the law take place according to normal procedure. Today this was demonstrated by a request regarding the call for a preliminary legislative referendum. This is that and that certain professional public and those who are actually users of telecommunications services do not agree with the proposal of the law. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I propose to avoid that period of six and twelve months, or six months, that the Government prepare a special return law, now that we are essentially in the normal process, when we have adopted this decision today, or with minimal support, for the first time: we accept that, after first reading, the provisions on the return of deposits are incorporated into the law itself, so that these provisions are defined until the second reading. Secondly, after today's debate, public debate will be resumed. Reopen the public hearing with those moments and with those new key things that this new provision would bring. I think it would be necessary and absolutely necessary, for example, for some kind of telecommunications development and the approximation of telecommunications to users on the one hand and, on the other hand, the approximation of telecommunications to those who will be serviced on the market. I propose that other Members also be identified before the proposal for a decision in the debate and that we thus try to bring the point to that normal branch of development and adoption of Slovenian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please. And then Mr. Valentin Pohorec behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General. We support the adoption of the Telecommunications Act in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. In doing so, we point out that the new text of the bill from the original text, except in substantive provisions, is virtually indistinguishable and that both proposals seek to systematically regulate the field of telecommunications in the context of the adoption of the acquis of the European Union. However, it is essential that the new proposal differs in the transitional provisions. The Government's legislative proposal by Dr. Bajuk included, in our opinion, an appropriate regulation of the issue of the return on public telecommunications investments, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly, which is not considering or resolving. And that, in our view, is the essence of the problem. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we support such a solution or a bill that will at the same time solve the issue of investment. Under the current Telecommunications Act, the right to reimbursement of investments by local communities and individuals in the public telecommunications network is enshrined in Article 64. However, since this legal obligation adopted by this Parliament has not been fulfilled, from the entry into force of the law in 1997 to 1999 - I think you are aware of this - the Constitutional Court ruled by decision of 23.7.1999 that non-compliance with the Constitution should be abolished within one year. The attempt to resolve this was also a proposal by the government of Dr. Bajuk, which was submitted to the legislative procedure in 2000. With the implementation of the proposed law, the law in force would now no longer apply and would thus no longer apply the third paragraph of Article 64, which constitutes the legal basis for reimbursement of investments to local communities and individual investors. In our opinion, this would also put an end to the already mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court. Members of the Social Democratic Party have already drawn the attention of the Government to the risk of blocking the legislative procedure by beneficiaries in the debate of the Economic Committee, even though the Economic Committee has adopted a decision which obliges the Government to adopt a law which will regulate the return of investments within six months of the adoption of the Telecommunications Act. Well, this fear has now proved to be a legitimate situation, and the current situation with the initiative has led us to the situation we are in. The initiative put forward for the previous legislative referendum on the proposal for a telecoms law is thus merely a confirmation of our repeated fear that the government has amended the bill, replacing Dr. Bayuk's Government's proposal to make a fatal mistake, which has virtually blocked the adoption of this important law by leaving the chapter behind. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the consideration and adoption of the initial proposal of the Telecommunications Act, which is the proposal of the government of Dr. Bajuk, which has satisfactorily addressed the issue of investment, would at this moment be the only right, reasonable and smart decision to allow for the adoption of such an important law as the Telecommunications Act and, last but not least, its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec also applied to the debate on behalf of the DeSUS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group believes that Slovenia needs a modern law on telecommunications, and we believe that the proposed law and the amendments already drafted by the Economic Committee satisfy us and are suitable for further consideration. Indeed, in the discussions so far, the most attention has been paid to the issue of the return of funds to the telecommunications network and less to the professional content of the law itself. We, too, share the view that this issue needs to be resolved and resolved through the agenda of our debates. However, we believe that one system law on telecommunications and the other is the law on the return of excessively invested funds to the telecommunications network, also linked to the privatisation of Telekom. We believe that the amendment of the Committee on the Economy in the transitional provisions, that within six months of the adoption of this law, the Government must submit to the National Assembly an appropriate return law, is an appropriate solution. If this amendment is supplemented by a proposal from the SLS+SKD Group, which was presented here today, that Telekom must not be owned before this issue is resolved, such an amendment may be a suitable guarantee that investors in the telecommunications network will come to a legitimate request. The request for a legislative referendum will, however, postpone further discussion for the adoption of the Telecommunications Act to a later date, thus addressing this issue. We are also not convinced that the referendum will eventually be the right solution for the applicants, as the requirement will still have to be addressed and resolved by the government and the National Assembly. However, we will lose more time and, last but not least, the costs of the referendum, which are not small, could already be part of the means to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Any of the other MPs? Mr. Weber, on behalf of the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, of course, we also support the adoption of the Telecommunications Act. Probably because of the more effective implementation of this law, it is also reasonable to consider the issue of return separately and also the implementation of the development of telecommunications as such. Therefore, the objectives and principles of the law defined in this law are also the guidelines that we support in our parliamentary group. However, of course, we would have some further comments on the fact that the implementation of this law would be better and, of course, better implementation, or easier to achieve the objectives and principles of the bill. In particular, we would point out here that if we are already going to open up the market, of course we should be extremely careful in providing guarantees or in requiring guarantees for the seriousness of offers for these services that will occur on the market. However, we are of course of course of the opinion that the Telecommunications Agency should indeed carry out as many technical tasks as possible, but that policy and other decisions should be removed from this agency to the greatest extent possible, so we also support the guidelines that, for example, speak of the world for broadcasting operating as independently or as far as possible outside the telecommunications agency itself. However, we are also of the opinion that the Agency's operational nature must be linked to this, for example, that a specific plan for the deployment of radiobands should be prepared by a telecommunications agency, whereby the law, regulation or regulation itself should be drawn up by a government or ministry responsible for this area. It seems to me - therefore - that we are confident that this would somehow bring the law into line with some of the tasks that each body should carry out. Some are also names or indications in this law that may later cause problems in changing names. For example, the law is very clear, so the name of the Slovenian intelligence agency is used. So if there is to be a change in the name of this agency, we need to amend the article in the law that speaks about it, so that it makes more sense for us to use a general diction, that it is simply an intelligence activity or a competent authority that carries out this activity, and that only the name should not be included in the law. The same applies, for example, to Article 158, which even mentions that certain regulations or regulations remain in force. Therefore, we are asked what, at a time when this rule is simply obsolete due to the development of telecommunications, the adoption of this law has already defined it as a rule that is actually still in force until the law is amended. And, of course, if it is a sub-legislative provision, it would be more reasonable to speak only of the content of the sub-legislative rules or areas that are supposed to be defined by law, but not to mention the names of those regulations and to speak in law that they are applicable; for we have certainly done this or that law would be significantly less operational than if it had a more general dictatorship and followed somehow the content or areas that should be regulated by law and the regulations as sub-legislations should not have a legal basis, and this law would give them this. These are some of the guidelines that we want the proposalr to take into account in the further consideration of this law, and we also hope that this will happen. It is in our interest, above all, that this law will be as effective as possible and as easily as possible later in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Any of the other MPs? [[No one else.]] Thank you very much. Yes, please, Mr. Štemberger, SMS. I would only ask if we could use a written application for the debate in the future, because it is easier to organise the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed law is a good system law governing telecommunications, the release of the market for telecommunications services, and we believe that the law in this respect is not controversial and could be adopted unnoticed. The public, however, was upset mainly by the problem of investing local communities or the return of such investments in telecommunications. There are growing controversy about return, about how to return to Slovenian telephony decades ago. Money and work. That money had to count down all those who wanted to have a phone in their homes. And as long as their home was bigger, more money had to be invested. I also wanted to draw attention to this problem as a co-signatory of the request for public representation of the opinions of the Act and my purpose has been achieved. Finally, the government has come to realize that before this problem, it is impossible to keep its eyes closed indefinitely, and I therefore welcome the amendment of the Economic Committee for the new 156.a. and the amendment to this amendment table tabled by my colleague Rokavec, although I believe that this law, which should have come to our table six months after the introduction of the Telecommunications Act, is the law which will regulate the return of local communities and individuals, I believe that this law should have been on parliamentary benches long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We've got two in writing. Two applications for the debate, Mr Pukšič and Mr Jakič. Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the rest are present. Of course, it is necessary to speak about the proposed Telecommunications Act in a slightly wider way and perhaps even with a certain distance back. In our parliamentary group, we have made it clear that we support the Telecommunications Act, the adoption of the Telecommunications Act. Even more. In some times, in 1997, in the former Parliament, a law on telecommunications was passed, in which we are also Members of the Social Democratic Party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u35	Can I have some more attention, Mr. Anderlich, perhaps? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u36	We have also been actively involved on the Infrastructure Committee, and then, on the basis of the Infrastructure Committee, Article 64 was adopted in the Act, which in fact committed or was adopted in such a way as to oblige the legislator to adopt a specific law that will address the way and the system of returning those who are in, that is, telephony, to building telephony, to networks and telephone centres, more than this average. [[...]] Dr. Gantar was also a minister in the then government and was also said to be a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the government committee. And Dr. Drnovšk’s then government, despite the legislator’s commitment to regulate this, did not submit this special law on the way and system of return to the National Assembly. Even more! This law was prepared by the government and fell on the Committee on the Economy because there was no agreement between the two coalition partners, the then human party and liberal democracy. On the basis of an individual's initiative, to submit to the Constitutional Court in the presence of a law on compliance with the Constitution, of course, is a well-known decision of the Constitutional Court, which I will also talk a little more about later. To solve the problem in both directions, just as we have always advocated the social-democrats and have been convinced that the only right thing to do is to save the law and adopt the law on telecommunications and at the same time the law on return or in this law regulates the way back. This was actually the only way in which last July the government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced the law into the National Assembly, which also discussed the way in which those who have invested excessively in the construction of the network and telephone centres were returned. This was also the only way since another law, Mr Jakič, had already been introduced, on return, which, of course, refers to a number of persons, i.e. 14 or something similar, which, of course, is not the subject of this law or is not the object of return on such a basis, but is a matter of resolution, because this is the subject of a bond law. Since last July, when the Telecommunications Act containing the articles on the way back was introduced, Dr Drnovšek’s government has not yet prepared a special law on the way back, but has only referred to the National Assembly to the Telecommunications Act, from which articles that speak or chapter that speak about the way back were deleted. This has also been seen by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of our National Assembly. The opinion, which the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs wrote on 12 February to the proposal for a Telecommunications Act, states: "The most important difference is certainly in the transitional provisions, where the original text of the bill contained, inter alia, the arrangements for the return of investments in the public telecommunications network of Slovenia or its legal predecessors, and the new text does not contain this regulation." If the Minister, who proposed the Telecommunications Act, and if Drnovšek's government had a real intention to tackle the issue of the return on public telecommunications investments, it would be a real solution to the proposal of the Telecommunications Act, which, once again, we do not oppose, at the same time submit a law on return to the public telecommunications network, I think, with a so-called twin, a law that would be linked and would both come into consideration. This would be the only way to avoid the big problems that have arisen now, and with a request for a preliminary referendum, the issue of the Telecommunications Act and, of course, the responsibility of non-admission of this law is to the applicant. The applicant is responsible and will be responsible for all the negative consequences that the non-admission of the Telecommunications Act or the delay in the adoption of this Act will have on account of the failure to submit a return law at the same time to those who have invested more in the public telecommunications network. The drafter of the law also had before him a national programme for the development of telecommunications. The national programme for telecommunications development was published in the Official Journal on 15 March 2000. The National Telecommunications Development Programme, which was adopted in this National Assembly, states in chapter 7 on privatisation: "The first phase of privatisation would have been carried out in 1999 and 2000 by selling its share between 74 and 51%, possibly recapitalisation, but by retaining the majority share. They would have made the sale in a package, based on the invitation to tender..." and so on. In the second paragraph of this chapter, it says: "The funds from the first phase of privatisation shall also be used to reimburse the costs of co-investment to local communities and individual investors in the public telecommunications network. The way and procedure will be determined by special law." The responsibility of the proposer, this is the telecommunications law, is so much greater, because not only does he ignore those who have invested excessively in the construction of the network and telephone centres, but he also ignores the adoption of the national programme. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the Minister of Information Society, ignores the adoption of the national programme of this National Assembly. It ignores Article 64 of the adopted law, which is still in force today, and ignores the decision of the Constitutional Court. Of course, this is not the first time, but it is sad that this is the case. Of course, that's not the only thing. And this ignoring the Government of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court and, of course, citizens and citizens, raises questions, as the Constitutional Court has written down, the rule of law of this country. It raises the question of Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. When the network was being built, only those who signed the contracts were investors. Now that it's sold, it's the property of all of us. It's no big deal, it's actually called the sale of the state's capital assets today. For a simple citizen or an investor, however, this is an attempt at simple fraud. Of course, the story began somewhere in the late 1980s. The needs and desires of telephone connections in the late 1980s and early 1990s were, of course, extremely large, as was then the existing network and technology that could provide. The then network manager, telephone network and central, PTT post office, telephone, telegraph - who still remembers this address - asked interested individuals and their associations and, of course, local communities, because of their under-investment capacity in terms of the need for enlargement and system modernisation, these were usually the narrower parts that local communities were told to firstly: they co-financed the construction of the telephone network. Secondly, they signed contracts to enable telephone connections to be built. And, of course, the third time, contracts for the purchase of telephone stations. Thus, individuals and local communities built entire miles of telephone networks and, in some cases, entire telephone centers. Not only the headquarters, but also the facilities in which telephone stations could be set up. Even after the completion of the construction, this was transferred to the then owner of the PTSD. This property, which, in some part in civil law, is also owned by these co-investors, was owned under the ownership law in 1997. For this property, which was valued, according to some experts, even in a rather controversial way, shares were issued, 73% of which were obtained by the State and the rest was intended for the domestic ownership of the enterprises. Today - of course - the country wants to sell these shares with these 73% of its shares and the funds from this sale of shares, to re-allocate this property to the budget and, of course, to invest this or that investment through the budget. The question of how far the development of the telecommunications network and the national programme and the telecommunications law will also go, is the State and that if Article 2 of the Constitution were in force, the rule of law would be to carry out all legal obligations and duties, as is the case with the Constitutional Court's decision. Only then can he impose new and different tasks by means of these funds or by means of surpluses of these funds. Is it not, in fact, one of the purposes of privatisation precisely to attract itself to the construction and modernisation of the information system - namely - new, fresh capital, private and foreign investment. As long as it was, of course, state property, it was not disputed against those who invested in this infrastructure. However, when the government sells the property to anyone you want, it is, of course, disputed by those who have invested in the infrastructure and have a right to their share under legal standards. At the very least, if this right is bypassed in such a drastic, unfair and unfair manner as it wishes to do by adopting a telecommunications law. On 1 July, I think the Constitutional Court's decision, which was handed down in 1999, reads as follows: "Article 64 of the Telecommunications Act is inconsistent with the Constitution because the legislator did not regulate the way and conditions under which investments are made to local communities and individual investors in the public telecommunications network. The finding of non-compliance referred to in the previous point of this Decision shall be binding on the legislator not later than one year from the date of publication of this Decision in the Official Journal." Look, before the Constitutional Court made a decision and wrote down a decision, it also asked for opinions. Among other things, it asked for an opinion from the National Assembly. In its response to the initiative, the National Assembly states that a special law should also address the issue of the investment of local communities and individuals, which refers to the challenge of a decision on telecommunications adopted in a short time. It also states that the Constitutional Court has already rejected the same initiative by its decision, by its decision, both of which, of 19.3.1998. The Constitutional Court, in its explanatory memorandum under point 8, states: "The convening of a national assembly for a decision is not justified," i.e. that the Official Gazette referred to earlier "is not justified because, in that constitutional initiative, the Constitutional Court carried out an assessment of the sixth and eighth paragraphs of Article 64 of the Telecommunications Act and not of the third paragraph of Article 40 of the Telecommunications Act which is the subject of this initiative." The Constitutional Court has adopted - colleagues and colleagues, it seems important, very important to me, because on one occasion there was a lot of speech in Parliament, that the Constitutional Court's decision was adopted by five votes in favour and four against, but it was a decision that was respected in the rule of law. In this case, this decision was adopted unanimously, in the composition of the following Constitutional Judges: President Franz Testen, Dr. Janez Čebulj, Dr. Zvonko Fischer, Dr. Miroslava Geč Korošec, Mr. Lojze Janko, Milojka Modrijan and Dr. Mirjam Škrk and Dr. Lojzeta Odeta and Dr. Dragica Wedam Lukić. The decision was adopted unanimously. Of course, I believe that a lot of fellow Members, a lot of fellow Members, have no interest in this chapter. And this is probably not of interest to the government either, that, of course, there is much of what is in the national programme, which is in the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court of some who declare themselves to be defenders of law, this is not of interest and of course they are persistently violating. It is therefore all the more necessary and important that we say this to infringements, legal infringements of citizens and citizens by means of arguments, by decisions, by means of a national programme, by sentences and even if you want certain decisions to be taken unanimously, by decrees, by laws, by articles adopted in this national assembly and, of course, by amending or replacing the 1997 law, by means of a new law, all of this is attempted. In its explanatory memorandum, the Constitutional Court states in point 5 that, following the contested decision, the investments of local communities and individual investors in the public telecommunications network shall be reimbursed in the manner and under the conditions laid down in the specific law. Already in decision 13.10.1994, together with the numbers written, I will not read them, the Constitutional Court ruled that if the legislator had announced by law that a particular issue would be settled by a specific law and that it had not been fulfilled, the law or its individual provisions, the content of which the specific law must be supplemented, did not comply with the principle of trust in law as one of the principles of the rule of law. I've talked about this a couple of times today. That they do not comply with the principle of trust in law as one of the principles of the rule of law - Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Gantar is on the Committee on the Economy to report on the proposal for a telecommunications law - this is how it is written. This is obviously summarized after his statement. "The government is aware of the importance of the issue of the privatisation of Telekom and in the context" of the return of legal and natural persons to the telecommunications network. This is a matter the government wants to settle with a special law. The government advocates the view that the proposal for a telecommunications law is a system law." That the system law is also advocated by us.The investment so far should be defined and defined in different ways, particularly with regard to the privatisation of Telekom. Investments so far are to be determined in accordance with the resolution adopted and in accordance with the Telecommunications Act adopted so far. If the Telecommunications Act were passed and the old Telecommunications Act, which constitutes the legal basis for the recovery of investments, would in fact have been achieved by the Government to terminate the legal obligation to reimburse investments and in fact no longer the legal basis for the claim for reimbursement of investors. As set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court. By adopting this new law, the decision of the Constitutional Court is null and void. The commitment set out in the amendment to the proposal of the Committee on the Return Method for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draft the law within six months is, of course, very puffy and very in the air. This commitment does not mean that he will see such a law for the first time: the light at the hearing in the national assembly does not yet mean that such a law of return will be passed and, of course, the question arises how and what will result from it. However, the current law in article 64 obliges, not the government, to prepare something, but is written as if this law had already been prepared. It's like this law has actually been passed. The National Assembly undertakes or is bound within one year by this law. However, this law was not prepared or tabled. Since the government has not done so, after all that I have said before, the Group of Members has submitted and prepared a possible solution. And so, for procedural reasons, of course, it would be only right to change the Telecommunications Act in such a way as the Secretariat for the Law and Legal Affairs of our National Assembly has also pointed out that this law is only after the law of the Group of Members. The law of the Group of Members foresees in its articles, of course, the return and resolution of this problem in parallel in its transitional provisions. The fear and application for a referendum initiative is, of course, justified. There is no reason, unfortunately, for the initiators to believe, citizens and citizens, and - of course - even less so - Members of this national assembly, who have already been calvarying this, to have been promised by the government coalition, to be prepared, put into Parliament, that the Constitutional Court's decision to have the State Assembly commit to adopting such a law within 1 year and, of course, it did not happen, the concerns of all those mentioned above are so great and justified that, by investing, those who have invested excessively in the telephone network, telecommunications networks, etc., there will be nothing. I don't know how much you're aware of or you know this problem. I come from such areas of Slovenia - the Gorski, Haloske and Styrian works, where these investments were huge, truly large. You know, in fact, it is very sad that people from demographically endangered areas have been the most invested in the development of telecommunications infrastructure. That it was invested in ways when people rented loans, five-year loans. Instead of using these funds to build or invest in apartments, to improve the standard, etc., they invested in telecommunications infrastructure, in the network, in the centres, in something that is important today - as has been said - for each political party, of course, this is important for all political parties. But those in demographically endangered areas, with the least possible means, have invested and will now enrich those who have lived in urban or urban areas and, of course, in areas where the standard of living of the population is significantly different. By the way, today I saw in the Journal the distribution of the Republic of Slovenia as a standard of living. Ladies and gentlemen, you decide not to return to those who have the lowest standard of living and tell them that you will not do so because you do not respect the national programme because you do not respect the applicable legislation and because you do not respect the Constitutional Court decision. But that you have, of course, different purposes than these to return, but it also appears in the coalition contract when you went to the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Telecommunications to distribute, because this part of the Ministry belonged to that coalition party who already took part in the previous mandate, but did not do so - and this is also her fault - of the law on how to return to these areas. By taking over this area and transferring it to the new ministry, of course, the fear of the foretold is so much more justified and the fear is so great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. A written application for discussion by Mr Jakič. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues and the Minister! See, the draft law before us is part of the European Union's legislation or the legal order. We should really adopt this law by the year 2000, and any delay means delaying our approach. I applied because, even when this law was publicly presented, the most or almost all of the discussion was devoted to only the work relating to the return of local communities' investments. And this is also today's topic; my colleague Pukšič, of course, has prepared a very detailed and extensive text on this subject, which he holds at some points, but does not hold on in some points. In fact, with the adoption of the Telecommunications Act, the National Assembly then entrusted the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the task of drafting, within six months of the entry into force of the law, a special law on telecommunications, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 64 of the Law on Telecommunications, which was intended to regulate the return on investments. The Infrastructure Committee also adopted a decision at its meeting on 11 April 1998 and commissioned the Government to regulate the matter until 1 April 1999. Of course, this was not the case and before all this great story about the return of assets began, and while this was not a pre-election topic in some way, personally, on the basis of all these requirements, and in particular on the basis of Article 64 and also of the Constitutional Court's decision to regulate the investment of local communities by special law, I have already passed a law on the return of local communities and individual investors to the public telecommunications network. This law was allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, which it has never addressed, as well as to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and, normally, to the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, and was asked for the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The only ones who responded to this law were the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which adopted the proposed law positively, and considered that this law essentially resolves, procedurally, investments and in some way results from both Article 64 and the decision of the Constitutional Court. And now I would like to discuss the rights of investors or of the debtors and so on. During the period preceding the adoption of this Telecommunications Act, funds were collected for the construction of the public telecommunications network under the Communications System Act, which - and I will now quote - in Article 38, quote: "PTT organisations may, in accordance with the general plan of the PTT network and the technical conditions and at the request of interested sociopolitical communities, fundamental and other organised works, local communities and citizens, build postage and telephone facilities, stations and structures not foreseen in the organisation's medium-term plan. The social political communities, organisations or individuals on whose request the said works are carried out shall pay the costs for their construction and replace the PTT with an increase in the business costs incurred by the construction, reconstruction or relocation of the PTT facilities, facilities and installations." End of quote. It is said that in such cases the construction of the infrastructure was carried out, of course, on the basis of specific contracts in which, of course, the financial obligations of investors and, on the other hand, the obligation of the operator to - of course - build the network within a certain period of time and provide the users with connections. Investment or construction contracts, of course, also differ in some aspects. But, of course, the vast majority contain an explicit provision on the unpaid transfer of infrastructure to the company's fixed assets. Since the contract was subject to early provision of connection and not the transfer of infrastructure to investors, the network was converted to the company’s basic assets at the time of construction, which was created as an investor in construction. Such arrangements - of course - are also based on Article 38 of the law on the system of alliances which I have read to you, which states that it was the construction of infrastructure at the request of certain entities and against the reimbursement of costs by interested entities, not the transfer of infrastructure to their own. In view of the fact that investments were made on the basis of contracts the subject matter of which was the premature provision of the connection was fulfilled by the construction of the undertaking’s PTSD obligation. Also - of course - Article 38 of the Law on the System of Relationships did not provide any basis for the recovery of investments. It is, of course, - not as my colleague Puksic said - but 14 contracts, not 14 individuals, but 14 contracts, either concluded by local communities or by sociopolitical organisations, which, of course, explicitly have in their clause that the state must return the stake. Well, and, of course, because of these 14 who are in fact also non-discriminatory - even because all of this discussion has been drawn up, I have therefore tabled a law which, according to the available data, of course solves as a basis 14 contracts and annexes which include a provision for the recovery of the pooled funds, provided that this is permitted by law. The nominal amount of these recovery contracts to which the State is a debtor amounted to 41.6 million or revalued - if we are looking, of course, at the auditor's report and the 1998 accounting fund - that is about 401 million tolars. It is said that this law has been tabled and given that it has been tabled on a regular basis and is open to all suggestions - also, of course, for those who would allow, of course, also for those who do not have such a contract, which I have spoken of, which in some way obliges the country to return. Indeed, all those who call for redress must be separated from the rule of law. And of course it is right that, even colleague Pukšič spoke about the rule of law. But, of course, the rule of law is the conduct or observance of legislation. And according to me, the known information is, of course, legally justified, only those 14 who have signed such contracts are entitled to return. But for everyone else - of course - it is our political will, however we can solve their pains in any way, the problem is that if they wanted to have a phone like us in Ljubljana, those somewhere in the hill, they had to pay more than we paid in Ljubljana and that's really wrong, it's not fair. But legally - legally speaking, of course - and once again I underline that I am sympathetic to them, of course, and it seems to me that they were in some way incorrect with a large amount of their personal savings - but they formally do not have a legal basis to demand it. They have - of course - a basis to require some political consensus in this Chamber so that they can get some of their stakes back. My personal conviction and opinion is that - of course - this investment cannot be paid in money. I am open to finalizing my marriage in this way, to various other forms of return: whether it is in nature - it was once a discussion - whether it is in shares or whatever. I think that - of course - the return in money means that this country is somehow becoming a beneficiary state. Here we are used to being just from all possible sources; and - of course - I am also afraid when other areas open up [[Water, sewerage, gas, electricity]] That everyone will come - not least if I can banalise - then, of course, all those who have dug ditches on the labour brigades will come, of course, with the request that their work be valued and that the country, of course, pay their contributions to work for the construction of some infrastructure in Crassus. That is why - colleague Pukšič spoke about the pouch of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draft a special law within six months. The law has been available since 1999 in the procedure. I was hoping that there would be some cooperation - I am offering myself, and I must say that I will no longer offer to cooperate with anyone who wishes to supplement this law. And if I start with a European story, let me end it this way and say that any delay in the adoption of the Telecommunications Act is a Slovenian delay on the way to the European Union, and therefore it is a extortion that the Telecommunications Act must contain a return - even when a specific law has been introduced since 1999 - a political non-hygienic act, which is my concern, and in particular prevents the liberalisation of the telecommunications market and, above all, prevents the competition to be created by market relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Jakich. Mr. Puksich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Of course, there is something to be said about this. Firstly, it is necessary for everyone else, except those fourteen who have signed such contracts, the political will to do so is simply not true. Mr. Jakič, this is how you deceive or, as with some other adjective it is called Slovenian, you lie. Firstly, this has already been recorded in the national programme for the development of telecommunications and the political consensus has been reached. Secondly: the political consensus was reached in Article 64 of the Telecommunications Act. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has established and decided that this must be materialised within one year. It wasn't done. By adopting this law, however, it is true, Mr Jakič, that what you said would no longer be this political consensus, except for the national programme, which, of course, is more so. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's take off the emperor. What Mr Jakič said about his law is, to put it mildly, a deception to the public. Firstly, the Ministry of Transport and Communications proposed a special law in the government procedure on 19 March 1999. On 30 March 1999, the Economic Committee of the Government considered it and the minutes show that the Minister, Mr Gantar, proposed to withdraw from the procedure and coalition the deletion of that article in the Telecommunications Act, which provides the legal basis for recovery, despite the fact that the LDS also committed itself to carrying out this project in the Coalition Treaty. The coalition negotiations in which the Ministry of Transport and Communications sought to find such a solution that would satisfy all three coalition partners were attended by: Mr Anderlich, Mr Lenič, Preseknik, Mr Trofenik, Mr Kebrič and someone else, as described here, are not well seen. After half a year of coordination, on which there is a record, Mr Anderlič indicated a possible reduction in coordination and a possible solution, when he indicated it after six months, there was this wonderful law by Mr Jakič, on 16 November. This means that the story in the government began on 19 March, it lasted half a year and then on 16 November, Mr Jakič passed a special law. Whether the introduction of this special law was deliberate, well-coordinated action by Dr. Gantar, liberal democracy, or at least some, because Mr. Anderlich had to be exempted here because he was one of those who wanted to propose in terms of discharge, of course the other colleagues who sat in this negotiating group would be able to say.If this was the manoeuvre, Mr. Jakič, you obviously succeeded. And the maneuver will get the epilogue and end when the telecommunications law is passed. This is the second part of the truth of your assistance and your passing of the law to resolve the 10,000 to 15,000 who have for the first time, twice the political consensus, those who are found to have ruled and that it is necessary to return in some way. And of course, then there was nothing more than what the Bajuk government then suggested that the system law was reintroducing the reintroduction of the return and, of course, wanted to overcome the problems that had arisen in terms of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision. That was also a hindrance. That's part of the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I repeat to Mr Puksic to clarify some of his statements in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, Mr Pukšič is very vehement in this space. By the way, let me first warn you that deception and lying are not the same and that you have - of course - a problem in separating adjectives and verbs because lying is a verb, not an adjective. Secondly, let me tell you that what you just said is exactly what I wanted to do. You said the state was somehow bound to return. I am also speaking, so I have made the law that it is morally justified for the State to repay the surplus in some way. I myself have said that I do not agree with the money return, but that a political consensus is needed. Mr Pukšič, you ask me to respect the rule of law, but at the same time you say that without documents you return something that the documents do not prove. That's why I told you that 14 contracts are for those who are binding the country, but everything else is a political agreement between political parties, as we have already considered different areas when we returned or gave any credit to people, even beyond some legal basis. And that is why - of course - I reject your claim that whatever was coordinated, uncoordinated and action - Mr Willi Trophynik will remember, sat next to me in the first bench, when, in addition to him punishing me in some way, I was punished by all those negotiators who negotiated on the telecommunications law. But my basic opinion and belief, Mr Pukšič, is that, of course, investments are not part of the telecommunications law. Firstly, this is not even what the European Union requires of us; but that the Telecommunications Act has now become the hostage of blackmailing the work that does not belong to this law. That is why I have proposed my law, a new law, a separate law provided for in Article 64 of the existing Telecommunications Act, which provided for a decision by the Constitutional Court, which would send the legislator to draft a special law. If, of course, it were correct, including on your part, your parliamentary groups and those who were particularly interested in the pre-election campaign to open up this story and, of course, to draw it up now, I suppose to vote, local elections in 2002, then of course we would approach a joint resolution, of course, they would help to think that the law would come to the infrastructure committee in the previous term, which, of course, failed to come to the state council on my initiative and the initiative of President Praper to discuss and start solving this problem. To begin to upgrade it from that - I apologize - from that zero, which is zero for me, zero - 14 contracts - and then look up what are possible solutions. Only so much in reply and I ask that, of course, you do not speak of any kind, that you do not deceive the public, although of course stronger, louder, I also know how to speak this way, but of course I do not think it is a good time, because we are finally talking about the law on telecommunications, which is a very different matter than the law on the return of investments from local communities and individual investors to the public telecommunications network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. With all due respect to all the debaters, we have three more replicas and three limited discussions reported so far. Probably someone else, Mr Minister would also like to answer some questions. At the same time, I note that in your current debates you have actually set aside and limited yourself to 156th Article in most cases, I am not saying that the debates have not been systematic, but that what is now is mainly related to 156th Article. But in the first reading, we are not talking about amendments or specific matters, so I am no longer giving my word for replicas, because there is no point in replicating things that you have already explained three times and now this is happening again. I think that the rules of procedure should be respected in the general debate and I intend to stick to it and repeat what I said at the outset: Article 183 of our Rules of Procedure states: reasons, principles, objectives. So it's a general debate, not an amendment debate. This will follow when the time is right. That's why I'm not giving up the replica because there's no reason for that. And I forgive my colleagues who will be angry about this and I give the floor to Mr Zammernik, who has prepared himself, if he is in accordance with - the Member has the right to the replica, if he is in relation to the agenda item. And you actually took advantage of that right. [[The feedback from the bench.]] Yeah, that's true, but we're talking about the amendment to the amendment now, basically. The contents are such, and all of this has been said many times. So I think we should give the opportunity to colleagues who have not had this opportunity and give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions that gentlemen have already said in this debate. On the other hand, we have - as I said before - no subject of discussion is Article 156, and I am particularly reminding you of that. That's why I give my word to Mr. Zammernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When the informal President of Parliament calms down, I will continue my debate. I have deliberately applied for a limited time of 5 minutes - please include it so that no one can tell me that I have extended - that it would never be obvious to me that what you are trying to do now is that we are the ones who are blocking to accept this, even in our view, the necessary law. However, all these events surrounding the reception and now show also the failure to accept this law are making me very much aware of the saying that whoever draws the sword will be killed by the sword. Mr. Secretary! Remember the way in which you tried to circumvent the law that was already introduced here, which was first discussed on the infrastructure committee that was then competent, had already been carried out, then - did not withdraw it, because if it were withdrawn, it would be the second that regulated this area, which we are now most talking about. Simply from that already introduced law, they deleted this part, which is now the most important part of the talk, and so I would say, we have brought this law into this Parliament by way of procedures, which is now the subject of accusations from all parts of Slovenia. This led to a public hearing, which led to the Trojans, which led to an initiative to collect signatures and a previous referendum. Now it is likely that, on the basis of this debate and all infringements of procedures, a constitutional judgment will have to take place if this happens. Cavtide, colleagues, are very eager or very supportive of those who demand this return. And then you wonder how unhappy you are, what kind of accidents happen to you to stop this process. Yeah, why is he stopping? Where the original sin of this - with your violation of procedure! We would leave that law, which has already been tabled, upgraded - if you say that the solutions are bad - those provisions that you think are not the best and the matter would go through with the constitutional majority. That's how things stop for you. Although colleague Pukšič practically quoted everything or most of the arguments in the Constitutional Court decision, which he decided differently, as - of course - says Mr Jakič that it is only political will now, it was already in the 64th article, in the national programme, and this was confirmed by the Constitutional Court unanimously. You are saying that now we will make the solution that they demand or want the beneficiaries again with a special law, or we will refer them already in this law to some non-existent law: because it is still non-existent - does Mr. Minister hold? And now you will refer them to this nonexistent law. Obviously, the last time I saw you on the committee, you didn't know clause 7.2 of the National Telecommunications Development Programme. I believe you don't know the decisions of the Constitutional Court either, and I will read them to you because Mr Pukšič did not quote them. This is what the constitutional judges say unanimously: "The right that cannot be enforced is empty. The regulation of the right to return investments in the public telecommunications network by travelling to another, the non-existent law has the same effect as it would not have been." This has been established once before in the Constitutional Court, and now you're going to force us to reconsider. And then you will again, I would say, resent us for how rude we are to judge the Constitutional Court, but when it is so urgent - Europe requires us to adopt a law on telecommunications. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to solve; colleague Jakič once said "to cut the Rubicon" - of course, it is said "to cut the Gordi knot" - you can cut the Gordi knot and "to break the Rubikon" and accept what is proposed with our amendments or also with this conclusion now, which we have given as an alternative to you, that you can choose between the options to accept the amendments that we have tabled, or take the decision of the additional one that is here before you, and we will resolve the matter in a normal way, to avoid complications that will follow if you persist in your position. My time is up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. So any debate, of course, whatever we call it, slows down the adoption of certain solutions. And this one of ours today, and this one of mine that just started. That is why - and this is the only thing I would like to say - is of course the Economic Committee wanted - and I must say that, as far as I recall, the decision was taken unanimously - wanted to resolve this matter in one perfectly normal way. And this normal way seemed to us on the committee - the chairman of the committee has already said in his introduction that we are separating two matters, of course it is not necessary and it is not good that they are connected because things are interfering and, of course, the system legislation is burdened with some very important matter, but it does not judge - certainly not - into such a law. Therefore, the proposal was, as it is, and adopted - as I believe it was agreed on by the committee, with the participation of all parliamentary groups or members of the committee - the majority that this system law is, of course, confirmed or that a normal debate is held on it and with a provision which it wanted - and is therefore written down - to commit the government not to delay, but to make a proposal within a certain period - and it is set at 6 months - to make a proposal. For it is not only a proposal that this government and the minister sitting here might be able to prepare now. In particular, it is aimed at regulating the entire area in order to find out everything. The president of the association also notes - we can also read this in the paper today, of course, that no one has yet fully accurate data. At least the association doesn't, and apparently the government doesn't give everyone the exact data. Which means: first this needs to be done - and quickly: I stress quickly - then prepare a law on how this matter will be resolved. And we mix it all up into a one-pot, which, of course, then can't produce the right result. The procedure must be different. And the procedure must be such that this "fast", I stress quickly -- to find out what is the state of the solution, and this solution will not be accepted by the government, we will accept this solution. We will have to decide whether - to say so - this country will return this and how, to what extent, under what conditions and so on. This law will be passed by us. And that's why the Economic Committee just wanted to make order, so I'll say, and set up some normal procedure. And this procedure is: finding a state, adopting a law that will regulate these things. But it is ours to demand, and we have proposed to Parliament - as a committee - that we demand that this process begin within six months. The procedure would begin with this logic - 6 months after the adoption of this law - in September of the month, if we started now. And in some normal procedural procedure, of course, this law would be passed. What he would be, however, depends on that debate. With our things - look at it, the initiative for constitutional review or the initiative of the initiators, which has been written down, we have now received this initiative, is very similar to the question taken by the amendment on the committee. That is to say, the difference is that the initiators ask whether you agree to adopt the law within six months, while we have proposed in the amendment that a procedure should be initiated to bind the government - what this Parliament could do. This Parliament can bind the government. And that was the purpose of the committee and, according to my assessment, it would be wise to support this and it would be a wise matter to drive in this way and in some - of course - very fast time to come to a solution. It will be what it will be like, but it will show the debate under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There are still replicas. Mr. Jerovšek, please. And then there's the replica of Mr. Zámernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar simply devoted the entire debate to how to do what the Constitutional Court says is to enforce an empty right. Don't go to a marriage that doesn't exist. I think we all understand this dictatorship, and in the beginning you said that today's debate is stalling. Of course, it stalls if you look at it that way; but if there were no debates at all, the rights of these investors would have been long removed. That comes out of your coalition contract, too. We're the only ones who're trying to make it work. And why do you promise some marriage, why don't you commit yourself to the laws that we already have, whether we own or don't know, so the government can do it through the night and solve this problem. [[...]] You have our law of conclusion owned, I don't know what laws, give you that law - tie up and propose a change, and this will be resolved. It's owned by something, capitalization. Here we are convinced, Mr Jakič, that there is no formal legal basis. I think that this right stems from some natural law, absolutely this natural law makes it possible for these citizens to be equal and equal. In addition, we should be aware that these are mainly investors living in non-urban settlements providing housing, which is the primary interest of this country. Come on, even on a symbolic level - let's do something! I cannot agree with Mr Jakic, who says, but then we will also invest those who have been in the brigades digging ditches; those who have long since capitalised their contributions, their bathing, especially those who have been political commissioners in these labour brigades, have done so with good services and have continued to live in the country's nursery since kindergarten, and have long since capitalised, so not to give such examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u49	Counselor, please. He's quitting. Mr. Bernick has a word, even five minutes, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! When I listen to this debate, it comes to my mind: here things are promised, returning money to investors and the like, but the principle of the world is, never trust the finance minister or the government when he promises to return money. With us our taxpayers do not know this yet, and I would therefore like to point out that - for the first time, I would like to ask the Minister how he represents this matter, because the Prime Minister said it would not be in this law or in any other law, but it would be in ownership, which could still be far in the future. However, all the promises made by the government or ministers are not very valuable, because if they do not respect the constitutional provisions, not here or in the government, then no commitment given by the government is actually legally valid. In particular, given the fact that it is impossible to believe predictions, now that the crisis from America is somehow also coming to Europe, it is impossible to believe those promises, if we grow 4.5% to reduce inflation and so on. I don't think that's gonna happen. That's why I'm going to say this - I've already heard the second such promise today, it was the first one on the Finance Board - it's just promises. It seems to me that we need to get some more efficient system, how we're going to handle these things. If the government really meant it, it would have already submitted a law or a bill today, and then we could both consider it credible, but we can't. I would say that it is necessary to think of the citizens who have invested, I would say, with some smaller means, and it is not possible then to talk about populism, incompetence and similar things on this occasion. That is why we are here to protect the interests of our citizens, and no matter where they have invested, what they have done, the government must take care of them, and we must worry that the government will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich, then Mr Minister somehow wanted to answer a number of questions that have emerged in today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u52	I am sorry that yesterday's initiative and today's initiatives did not come across the understanding of even coalition partners, but only those who want the most to address the issue of returning investments in telecommunications in the manner proposed by the initiators for the referendum. When I suggested that this point should be placed on the agenda yesterday, I had in mind for the first time: to settle the question when, of course, I received this written request to regulate this article in this law in the way that all the applicants require it, and which, of course, should then also be checked in the referendum. The Committee on the Economy has already drawn up an initiative in this direction. I am confident that once this issue is settled in another reading, we could commit the government and ourselves to adopt a law on a proposal from the government within six months that will address this issue. And that's exactly what it says on this initiative! Of course, I also had in mind that by allowing the candidates to request a referendum to reconsider whether this only question that is here would really require a referendum and, if it is true, spend over 400 million national money to carry out the referendum. The last referendum or referendum on the electoral system cost over 400 million dollars. So, I think it is still important that the National Assembly, in the event that it is determined that it will be difficult to ensure, because, of course, public funds are always too small, provides the means to return to this investment, so that, of course, it does not impose additional costs, which it is. I think it's 400, but it's probably already millions, huge money, and it'd be better to pay it back to those who have invested in this public telecommunications network. It'd be better! However, if you think that something that is already the will of the National Assembly and also the government to do so needs to be checked at the referendum and therefore moved away from the state treasury of 400 million, some people do, because there is some government money and it can be spent. Of course I'm not up for this! And because dialogue is important among those who expect it - dialogue has begun. I have repeatedly heard the Minister say that the law is being prepared, the initiative has also been supported or even given by the Minister or State Secretary on the Committee on the Economy to make this right in this law. And if we were to do this properly today, we could inform these signatories that if they so much trust the National Assembly - I am sure that everyone here would vote in favour of such an arrangement because we have already expressed this will on the Committee - they would probably also be thinking about whether it still makes sense to insist on a referendum on a question that is, in itself, clear and, above all, resolution only in the way that is proposed here. So to commit the government to coming in with the law, probably the National Assembly, it's probably a little weird here, because of course we don't write laws together, someone has to file it, there's got to be some procedure and so on. And the government is most qualified to do that. And, of course, I would like to point out, after all, that it is also important to be careful whether we will save a tolar for certain other projects and programmes that we have more and more than money, or whether we will easily agree that the result for this referendum should not be any different. [[...]] Be assured that the outcome in the final stage when the law is passed will likely provide for some conditions, ways, and things that need to be done in order to make such investments or to repay investments at all. This is how I picture the procedure for solving this problem. And that's why I thought twice yesterday and today that this was a constructive contribution to solving this problem. You've estimated the majority that it's not constructive, I still think it is, and it would be right to keep thinking about doing the second treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u53	Replica, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I object to Mr. Anderlich. I believe that the important difference between the amendment adopted by the Committee on the Economy, which is that the Government will submit to Parliament within six months a law regulating the conditions and manner of returning to the telecommunications network, is from the initiative of the initiators to collect signatures in support of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum which I have just received on the bench, but which speaks in the proposed referendum question, whether you agree that the proposal for a telecommunications law will return investments to the public telecommunications network in a way that the National Assembly will commit itself to adopting a specific law within six months to provide that individual investors and local communities will be reimbursed for investing in the public telecommunications network from the funds generated by the privatisation of Telekom. This is what I have already talked about in the opening presentation of the opinion of the Group. The problem is that the amendment of the Committee on the Economy does not say anything on time when this law will be adopted. It can be tabled in Parliament within six months and I can also believe that the government will submit it. But when this law is passed, there is another question. The next question is whether Telekom will not be privatised at this time, from whose title it would be possible to recover part of the invested funds, investments in telecommunications infrastructure. That's the problem. And I think that Parliament must answer this question, and if we find consensus here, then I agree, Mr Anderlich, that this initiative would probably be unfounded. But now, in the current dictatorship, the matter is inconsequential and it's talking about a pigeon on the roof that we're either going to catch or we're not going to catch. That's the problem. The key problem is that this has ever occurred, but it is likely that the Ministry has been tactful in some way, whether the text of the Telecommunications Act will be amended without this very questionable question through the parliamentary procedure. I think there's been a mistake here for all the delays that could happen in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u55	I understand the replicas are repeating the same subject, but fine. [[...]] Mr Pukšič, then Mr Anderlich and then Mr Potč - all the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u56	Of course, you can figure that out, but we have the right to replicate Members, we have had it, and we will have it, so that in the future I would not want this option to be prevented, as it had previously taken away from me and this was contrary to the rules of procedure. I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. Mr Anderlič, it would be interesting to hear from one of you who sat in coalition during or for these negotiations there in 1999, and the possible solution to this problem, which was enshrined in the 1997 law, in article 64, to adopt a special law for this return. Look, when you've almost reached a solution - what the law has imposed on you - to make a special law for this, then your fellow Member, Mr. Jakič, has introduced a law for some fourteen contracts that are not the subject of this type at all, but something else, and thus, of course, has made it impossible for the government to deal with another law on this same subject. Well, that would be interesting to hear what was going on back then. What you say is that you do not see the difference between the initiative and the amendment of the Committee on the Economy, chiefly colleague Rokavec explained - this difference. Of course it is, it's a big difference! A terrible difference is whether the National Assembly undertakes to accept this within six months or to order the government to prepare it within six months. Then this national assembly, perhaps another one, does not necessarily see this law in the procedure at all. However, to make the matter so much more problematic, it is also because there is no budget or anywhere to be seen, how these matters would then be returned, or whether your proposal is acceptable at the time of adoption of certain proposals that have already taken place in this assembly. One is certainly the one that was suggested by a human party before that the ownership or disposal of Telekom’s shares should not begin until this law has been passed. Colleagues and colleagues! It is true to all of us, but it is also clear to the Slovenian public that returning in such or otherwise from the budget or from which fund it will not be. The only option is to return on the sale of shares of this 73% of the country's shares, i.e. in the event of this privatisation. That's the only option that exists. And if we want to protect the interests of these citizens and citizens - I am counting on them to be between 110 and 150 thousand - it is, of course, necessary to adopt certain conclusions in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u58	I guess we don't really want to get along. Mr. Rokavec! What I've suggested means that, say, the time limit for the adoption of a marriage can be 7 months. What you are proposing, however, is guaranteed if the referendum succeeds, of course, for 12 months or 11 months. For from tomorrow on there will be a time limit, if this is not arranged, 60 days for the gathering of signatures. Then the Ministry of the Interior will check whether these signatures are real or not. Since then, of course, the first meeting of the National Assembly will be called for a referendum. The National Assembly will do so at its first session. The referendum will take at least two months - the campaign, etc. - which is prescribed by law, count how many months this is. And it says here that the National Assembly commits itself. And if we fix -- and I've talked about it -- what the committee did, with the request contained here in this request, it's possible to sort these things out in a proper way, and indeed within six or seven months. But I wouldn't do anything, at least I'm not alone, I don't know if you can do it, but Mr Pukšič or anyone else will write the law - because someone has to write it. You know that a Member, a group of Members, or a government, or a state council, can pass the law, not a national assembly. The National Assembly cannot file a law, accept it, and commit itself to accepting it by that time. After all, we have a whole lot of decisions by the Constitutional Court, where explicit deadlines are imposed, and we have not yet implemented them for such or other reasons. So from this point of view, it's probably the most important thing that we in here commit ourselves to doing. And in the direction of the Committee's proposals and towards this initiative, my thoughts went. In addition, we would save at least $400 million for the referendum, because I have no doubt that it is not possible to collect 40,000 signatures for such a question, where you say to people, "Please write this down because you will get something back." I perceive it, respect it, and that's the way it is. But if we can talk in a different way in this country about saving and dedicating ourselves to other things, then of course we should talk in this way. As far as this proposal is concerned - from the privatisation of Telekom. As soon as the property is state-owned, the purchase goes to whoever owns it. So it goes into the budget and will have to be paid out of the budget. Either way - if it is the property of a country - whether you say it from the sale of shares, whether it is from the budget or otherwise, it is ultimately: it is the property of that country, it is the things we and the government manage, we manage better or in a less good way. And, of course, I still think that we would do more for these investors and for those who expect it if we really did tackle the problem and try to solve it. I have found, however, that the willingness of the government to express itself at this time is such that we can expect this to happen during this period as is proposed. So I think that when we talk about things, it's kind of important to stick to it -- and I hope I haven't gone by, that the President won't put me on edge -- what is being handled at this point. This is what I think is essential in the debates and in the replica. And once again, if there is something to talk about during this break, one step forward and the adoption of the law in the second reading is clearly stated, because this text would reasonably be incorporated into the law, that we have consumed it and those reasons for the referendum and there are no or there will no longer exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. According to the contents of the replicas, the Minister suggested that if you allow it, of course, he has no right to speak because they are replicas, but perhaps a replica would fall away. No, no, no. So, Mr. Potch. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Anderlich that the common interest of the National Assembly and, in my opinion, the signatories to the initiative with the first-signed Mr Fras would be settled as soon as possible and definitively. I also agree that it is a big question whether the referendum procedure will accelerate or reject this. Timely rejected as accelerated and additional funds will be needed. However, in one point, I do not agree with the proposals; that this problem can be resolved through a procedure in the National Assembly. This problem can be solved in a relationship of mutual trust. One another's trust. And if there is mutual trust, then of course there is no need for a referendum.Unless there is, then the request for a referendum will be given and made, regardless of which stage - or in the first or second - the State Assembly will make a similar or slightly different decision. That's just my opinion and my conviction. That is why I would like to plead that we may be looking for a solution to the question of establishing trust, which means talking to the applicants and the possibility that, under certain conditions, a referendum is not carried out in the National Assembly; this moment has been initiated, but has not been carried out. Because if this trust is not established, I think we will not achieve just because we make a decision at some next stage that is similar to a request, the very solution to the referendum itself is not given. It seemed useful to me to say this because I think it is unnecessary for us, at least from my point of view, to cause disagreements and disputes over procedures when, in my opinion, there is no question of procedure, but it is a matter of mutual confidence that the request for a referendum has arisen. However, the request is made under the applicable law, as it must be, we will see whether it will eventually fulfil all the conditions; but this moment is, and of course, a personal opinion of it is of purely secondary importance. As a national assembly, we must respect such a requirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you. The replica is still Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u62	It will be quite brief, because I think almost everything has already been told by the predecessor, Mr Potsch. I think that there is a real problem of mutual trust, but I am particularly pleased that Mr Anderlič, in his second performance, has somehow gone in a direction in which this National Assembly has already debated at least I do not know how many meetings, but I think that the debate has been going on for at least three years in this National Assembly. And I think that this can be a step forward to build this trust. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. And Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me, my mistake, Mr. Pache has applied to the replica before.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian National Party, we proposed one decision in the opening part of the debate, i.e. in the speech of the parliamentary groups. The same decision was also proposed by the Socialist Group of Members. By adopting this decision, thus concluding that the elements of the return should be incorporated into the law itself, the economic amendments and the amendment of Mr Rokavac would also not be an open issue of trust, which is not in this national assembly because we are engaged in politics and there is no general confidence in Slovenian politics. Well, by accepting this amendment, we would have solved the whole thing. Matter, which normally falls under this law, the Telecommunications Act, would finally find its place, not as it is now trying - whether it is well-meaning or poorly-meaning - matter accompanying matter, that is to say, the return is delayed for 6 or 12 months. Once again, I propose that the National Assembly be defined by a formal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. And Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u66	I'd just like a replica. Of course, to stress that I deeply agree with those who are looking for a solution, as Mr Anderlich suggested. I would like to make it very clear that this means, of course, delays, including the return on investments law and, of course, all that follows - very clearly. However, I would like to say that such an agreement is possible if we find that this initiative is in fact such that this return would sooner be rejected than accelerated and, of course, we have no other intention. However, if there are other purposes that, in fact, on the back of those who are more or less justified, expect to invest more or less if we delay the liberalisation of the telecommunications market on their backs, the entry of new bidders into the market, the economic development of Slovenia, then it is difficult to reach such an agreement. I think we need to be very frank about this, give a clear word and say it. If, of course, it is hidden to say latenten, the motive of all this, then of course I am pessimistic and then I know that one day we will have to face such or other referendums - not because of investments, but because of what we want from our telecommunications market, what does development actually mean for us in this area. And that must be decided today by this respected high assembly, the national assembly. Of course, it is clear to everyone that the return on investments has nothing to do with the regulation of the telecommunications market and that the integration of these two matters is detrimental to both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u68	It's a replica and a supplement. Look, we're going to be very easy to wait for this matter, whether it's this or this is something else to simplify a little bit. If we go in this direction to adopt a decision that is very similar to this initiative or the same, then, if we accept it, the initiators will probably be satisfied, at least I suppose, and they will probably withdraw this initiative if that is the case. However, if they do not withdraw the initiative, with the same text or a very similar text as we would have accepted it, then we can assume that this is not the case. By supporting the proposal to adopt such a decision, which has already been mentioned several times, which is very, very similar to the initiative of the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I just want to know if anyone else wants to discuss it within five minutes because it's 1300 and I'm obliged to give it a break. If there are no more expected debaters, we could vote on a proposal submitted by two parties, namely SDS and SNS. So I need to know if anyone else wants to discuss it and hasn't checked in yet? Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u70	I would like to use this earlier as a replica, but I would also like to discuss the draft decision tabled by the Social Democratic Party, and I would like to make some comments on some of the answers to the general debate on the objectives, purposes and draft law. Mr. Vice President, I ask you, when can I do this?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. The time is 13.03, the morning part of the meeting of the National Assembly is thus concluded. We continue with this agenda item at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u72	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It's been five minutes since the academy. We continue with the afternoon session. I have a message that they are further excused for the continuation of the 4th session, on 28.3.2001: Ivan Mamić for the whole day, Andrej Vizjak for the afternoon part of the session, Yuri Malovrov from 16:00 on and Leopold Grošelj for the afternoon part of the session. I respectfully ask you to insert the cards and determine the presence. There are 51 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. This morning's part of the session was interrupted in part of the general debate, when we discussed item 13 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a telecommunications law. We have remained in the general debate and I think we have interrupted the Minister, Mr Gantar, when he wanted to answer the questions put by Members in his morning work. So please, Mr. Gantar, please. You may proceed. Please, dear fellows, can we please calm down a bit so that we can hear each other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will be given that there were some conversations, of course, between the coalition parties on vacation, perhaps shorter than I intended to be. I would like to mention, but I would like to point out a few points. Not to aggravate the controversy, but to point out the clear views of the government, for which it is right for you to hear them and, of course, others interested in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government is of course committed to the fact that the legal commitment resulting from the current law is to return investments to those who have invested in the telecommunications network; that this legal commitment exists by a decision of the Constitutional Court; that the decision of the Constitutional Court is, of course, an act of its own initiative, that alone and as such exists independent of changes to the law. However, in its independent discussion with the association of beneficiaries, the All-Slovenian associations decided not to oppose the proposal made by the Committee on the Economy, with which this commitment is clearly enshrined in the law. This was also reflected in the minutes of the Committee on the Economy. At the same time, of course, the association has only found out and also points out that, of course, there is no reason for the return of investments to be regulated in this law. In this law they themselves recognise the principle of proper systematic separation of this return on investments under the Telecommunications Act. The law which was tabled during the time of Mr Bayuk's government was mentioned several times. I would only say that this law has provisions in it, probably recklessly written, which of course do not specify certain commitments and say that returning arrangements after the conclusion of the privatisation of Telekom - which is, of course, possible if I may use this term, with the "Svet Nikoli", which of course the privatisation of Telekom never - probably the state will retain a share for a long time, say 25% + 1 share, probably for a while. If not always, because it has some, you might say, strategic interests in this area. Therefore, this solution is certainly not one that would allow for the operational implementation of the law if there is no political will to do so. Secondly, this law does not have the well-assessed financial consequences of the law. These financial consequences could be fatal for, I would say, a country and the adoption of such a law without really assessing the financial consequences is for me to use this term, nicely put, relatively irresponsible action and, by the way, because there are no financial consequences of the law, also not qualified for formal treatment in the government - probably only in the National Assembly. In fact, the Government, which has submitted this law, which does not regulate these investments, has therefore undertaken to regulate it in a special law, to submit such a law, while at the same time on the basis of a thorough study and a white book which will address all the dimensions of this return, all the advantages and disadvantages, I would say, all the differences that have arisen in Slovenia, on the basis of which it will be possible to assess the financial consequences, not so in the round, but also in fact and in concrete terms of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, since Telekom is 66% state ownership and is in any case the money coming from the public fund. Thus, of course, the referendum initiative in this context makes no special sense unless it has other intentions. However, it may be possible under this agreement or possible solutions to this problem later, or by others who are present here. Of course, I would also like to comment on the problem of privatisation or the obvious that the government or I personally do not know the strategy for the development of the telecommunications market, where the privatisation of Telekom is expected to take place in several stages. The first phase will be privatisation up to 51%, plus call for shares and maintaining 51% of the share. What, I'm asking you? How? If you reduce the share of the country to 51, recapitalise the company, you will safely get it below 50% of the share of the country. Unless it's with the fund ordered there to sell state shares and privatize the assets of the funds. This is a very foolish way, and at that time we warned that such a written matter was rather unseriously written. Therefore, I would say that it is necessary to do everything, even today, to resolve this dilemma. Perhaps the solution is to go, if possible, to a second reading and to adopt such a proposal of this Article 156, in which, to the extent possible, to the extent possible, to take the referendum initiative and to perhaps reduce the rational reasons for the referendum. At the same time, we would also be given an answer to the question whether this referendum initiative is possible for any other reason. Personally, the government is certainly committed to such a solution and will also support it if members of the coalition put such a proposal on the table. I would just like to mention the proposal for a decision proposed by the Social Democratic Party, where it proposes that the Government complete this law in the second reading by regulating the way and conditions for regulating the investments of local communities and individual investors in the public telecommunications network. I think that this is in stark contrast to what we are saying all the time, as opposed to what the All-Slovenian association claims, and I think, so I am sure that such an article should be rejected. I would like to comment very briefly on some other comments concerning the law itself. First of all, I would like to point out that it is true that the law that is now being tabled, except that it has no investment, is very similar to that law that was introduced in the time of the government of Dr. Bayuk. However, some details are very important. In some articles, we have written the question of market liberalisation more clearly and definitively, as prescribed and required by the Directives of the European Union. The law previously introduced had a number of criticisms that, in fact, it remained halfway to, in part or indeterminately, a stifling way of implementing the Directive of the European Union. It is only now that the new law has been tabled by the relevant authorities in the European Union that this law is an important step forward towards progressive and regulated market liberalisation. Of course, we will talk about individual amendments that have come to the table in particular, but I would like to say that some indications of how late and delayed local loops are, are unrealistic, that they are not accurate and that we are pushing too quickly for liberalisation. That is not true, this liberalisation is something that is ahead of us, and this liberalisation must be entered now; later, it will happen gradually, later, with each day, with each year or month behind, this entry will be harder and harder to implement. There's only so much about substantive matters, because I'm sure we'll talk about it later. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bogomir Zamernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Some of the Minister's remarks need to be corrected briefly. Remember, those of us who were in the previous reference in this House that whenever there was no will, any political or any other will to solve a problem, it was an on-call excuse that the matter should be systematically, thoughtfully, wisely settled. This is how we have systematically saved the Savinja Valley after the floods for ten years, and we have been saving the Posačje systemically for three years. But things don't run because they don't want to. The same excuse we now hear here is that these are delicate things that need to be very carefully and systematically solved. However, the reason for my replica is that in the draft law tabled by the previous government, Bajukova is written in such a way that the amount of the shares or the amount referred to in the preceding paragraphs is returned after the privatisation of Telekom has been completed. Mr. Secretary, I see you haven't read that either. The amendments that have been tabled Clearly this is no surprise to me, because if you have not read the constitutional decisions, then I am not surprised that you have not read the amendments tabled by the opposition. [[...]] But amendments, tabled 14.3., amendment number. 156e, says that within six months of the first phase of privatisation, not after completion, this is, of course, in accordance with point 7.2 of the national programme. So please don't fool the public and don't talk about us wanting returns to be arranged after privatisation is over, which we really don't know when it's going to be over. But from the first phase of privatisation, you have already invested this year with the draft budget and it is envisaged that the first phase of the privatisation of Telekom will take place this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. He wants to explain things, Mr. Secretary Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u77	It's a very short replica. Since Mr Zamernik and I probably both want the public to know the truth and nothing more than the truth, it is only necessary to say, of course, that this formulation of 14.3., of course, corrects the inconsistencies of the law which was introduced in the summer time and I think that the name of Dr Baiuk does not have to be linked to this law separately. So that's how you need to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I would like to refer to the Minister, who mentioned earlier in his introductory reply that there was in some ways a positive assessment by Brussels or the European Union following the new dictatorship presented in this law on opening local loops. Normally, Mr Minister, Brussels will in some way be very grateful to us if we are to liberalise the telecommunications market very quickly. We know that this is very profitable and profitable. In doing so, we must be aware that, when telecommunication services are privatised, where it is particularly important to open local loops, we still need to be careful in some way. I am therefore convinced that the transitional period of six months is too small. I think that, at a time when the privatisation of the telecommunications network or telecommunications will begin in its entirety, the country should in some way adopt a national programme to safeguard key national interests in this area. Article 65 literally requires the current national operator to open up its so-called channels and to put competition in place without any serious agreement, in what way the opening of this infrastructure will be agreed in some way. I think it is necessary to have a feeling here that we will be prepared in this area. I think that here, as well as protecting the Slovenian language - which I have pointed out several times in Parliament - there is a need to be more sensitive. I know, normally, Europe will sing us praises, but I think the negative consequences will probably be felt by Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We conclude the general debate. In view of the fact that the Council of State decided that the second and third hearings would be later held on the Procedural basis. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I propose a procedural decision to vote first on the second reading. But I will, of course, give the reasons for what makes us think of such a proposal. Such a proposal is the proposal of our coalition parliamentary groups. The reason for this is as follows. We are going to propose a Article 156.a., which is identical to the referendum initiative, and we believe that this referendum initiative in this dictatorship would be accepted in this way, so that it would certainly be a reason for the referendum's proposing to feel that this is a matter of harmony and that this would, of course, eliminate a lot of things. One of these is to eliminate the costs of the referendum already mentioned and reduce all procedures. Because the procedure that would result from the referendum decision and the referendum would be significantly longer than the procedure that could be carried out by this national assembly following such a decision in this law. I therefore propose that we proceed with the vote and therefore make this procedural proposal, as I said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much. There is no discussion on the procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Since I hear respectable colleagues on the right argue that we cannot re-vote the same thing, it is said of the same procedural proposal, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure Commission, adopted the interpretation of Articles 54 and 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 6 November 1997. It states that the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit the same or other proposer from repeating a proposal or request for the State assembly to decide on the same or similar procedural proposal or request. Explanation: The admissibility of a repetition of the proposal or of the request for a decision of the National Assembly on a procedural matter is not governed by the rules of procedure. In the opinion of the Commission, the same or other proposer may repeat a proposal or request that the State assembly decide on the same or similar procedural proposal or request. In practice, it is entirely possible for Members, between one decision and another, to change circumstances or to change their previous procedural decisions. It is possible, however, to re-decision on the act of the national assembly or on the other to adopt a substantive decision if a new proposal is made or a request is made and a prescribed procedure for deciding on it is implemented by the Rules of Procedure. Since Mr Leo Kremjar has tabled a procedural proposal, I would regret it, but the debate first we are obliged to vote on the procedural proposal and there is no debate of Members on the procedural proposal. [[...]] I therefore propose a procedural proposal for a second consideration of the proposal for a telecoms law to be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, against 26. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the procedural decision to hold a second reading of the proposal for a telecommunications law is also adopted. We're moving to second reading. Mr. Rokavec, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Look, the actual coalition client consultation was by 2:30 or so a minute later. First of all, I think it would be correct for a new amendment, in which the Liberal Democracy in some way also agreed, to get it on the table or to get it in writing to those who, in some way, were also in this coordination. Second. Today we got a whole bunch of new amendments on the table. I don't see the possibility that we could make a decision without a qualitatively prepared point. I therefore suggest whether you give us a break or at this time prepare a coordinated amendment to be seen before we go to the hearing, and that a review of all the amendments be prepared to create conditions for quality decision-making. In the meantime, we can go to other items of the agenda. When these things are ready, we'll go to another reading. I therefore propose that we accept such a response, or else I will have to use the possibility of procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. If I understand your procedural proposal correctly, you want us to stop discussing this point, the other treatments of the telecommunications law for a certain period of time, and continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda so that the parliamentary groups can prepare themselves and therefore prepare the amendments they have agreed on and also review the new amendments that have come to the table. I will put a procedural proposal to the vote. How long do you suggest you need to prepare for this point? So, pending the preparation of the amendments that have been agreed upon. I propose to the National Assembly that, pending the preparation of the amendments agreed by the coalition parties, we suspend the consideration of this item on the agenda, i.e. the second reading of the Telecommunications Act, and continue with the consideration of the 10th item on the agenda. That procedural proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 58.3 against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Mr. Rokavac's procedural proposal has been adopted, which means that we are terminating the 13th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal of the Telecommunications Act, and we are moving on to DISCONTINUED 10. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the description of the residence, estate and residence in the Republic of Slovenia in the summer of 2001. The opening of the debate on the 10th item was Friday, 23.3.2001. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Banovac, was introduced and a presentation was presented to the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. A presentation was also given to the head of the SLS + SKD Group, Mr Janez Podobnik, and the point was interrupted here. This is the case with representatives of other parliamentary groups. They were reported: Mr Miran Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, then Mr Valentin Pohorec, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u85	The Group of the Joint List of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on censuses, households and housing in the Republic of Slovenia. While there are no specific issues concerning this law in principle. Therefore, allow me to do the same as the government representative and my fellow Member, Mr Janez Podobnik, and in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members, I will talk about the only issue where we have different views or which is potentially controversial. This is the question whether the census should also include the question of the religious beliefs of the listed persons. The United List of Social Democrats has proposed and the mother labour body has overwhelmingly supported the deletion of the provision of the law, namely that one of the census data is also a declaration on the religion of persons who are listed. We base our proposal on the following. First time. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the second paragraph of Article 41, explicitly states, quote: "No one is obliged to define his religious or other beliefs." No other human right specified in the Constitution shall include a similar prohibition provision or special protection. There should therefore be no doubt that without the consent of the stated definition of religious belief it is not possible or constitutionally permissible. Nor is it because there is no provision in Article 41 of the Constitution to provide that the law can regulate the way this human right is exercised, as it should have been, if it wanted to allow such an opportunity. It does not give such powers to the Constitution and therefore no other interpretation, such as that it is not possible, except by consent, to carry out the census, so we claim in the United List of Social Democrats and thus understand the Constitution. Therefore, we believe that, from this point of view, it shows that the application of the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act, to which the Government now refers, as in 2000, to a different source. Today the government is asking a question or a claim that, on the basis of this provision of the Personal Data Protection Act, it would also be possible to ask a question to someone who did not give consent or collect that data, as if it were data used for statistical purposes. It should be noted that in 2000, when preparing the basic text of the law that is in force today, the Government considered otherwise, and Members of the National Assembly warned us that, apart from a special agreement, the application of this issue was not admissible. In particular, on 5 January 2000, the Ministry of Justice received an answer to the statistical office's question that the question could not be applied to a person who was not specifically part of the consensus. That is why we do not understand the changed views of the government. However, in any event, changing views once and for all does not remove doubts about this important constitutional issue. Neither does the Government's proposal to supplement Article 10 of the basic census law by not requiring the listed person to express his or her religious affiliation without consent, and the surveyed questionnaire should have a legal instruction on this. Only this provision, in the way in which the third paragraph of Article 8 is interpreted as being offered by the Government, could mean, if you ask me, I must give my consent, but if I am telling a story about a wife, a grandmother, a child, and the consent of a wife, a grandmother, a child, it is not necessary, which is extreme illogicality, and I think it does not hold the constitutional judgment. The specific issue arises when explaining how the third paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution would apply, which states that the guidance of children, as regards religious and moral education, should also be in line with the child's age and maturity and his freedom of conscience, religion and other definitions or belief. When a child has to speak about his or her religious beliefs himself, when parents can say so on his or her behalf. What if both parents feel differently about this? And so on. All this has been released from the law. It's not arranged. These are things that must be legal matter, that cannot be left to the direction of the statistical office or possibly, even more, to the independent opinions of 8 to 9 thousand censusers who will discuss these issues directly with the listed persons. Before the final decision on the content of the law, the National Assembly, in my opinion, will have to determine whether constitutionally permissible is merely a personal statement as it has been before, or whether, despite the explicit constitutional provision, a different explanation can be allowed. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has warned us that it is the view that only personal clarification is possible. In some cases, we pay very close attention to these views, many times when it is different, possibly, political interest and forget about them. So this time, I would like to give special attention to this position. Even if we were to define ourselves for such specific declarations and their signing, and for the fact that only those who gave consent could give answers, the question is whether this would satisfy only formally or in fact. In all other cases, the person listed must answer all the questions - he must answer them. Only with regard to nationality and religious belief should she be warned that this is not her duty. In doing so, the scribe should even warn the person described that he will be punished for an offence if he does not provide the information required by the inventory or if he gives incorrect data or prevents the verification of certain information contained in the law. The position of the censuser and the listed person is therefore not equal in our opinion and it is not possible to count that all approximately 950 thousand listed will understand what these instructions in one case and in the other case - in one case to answer, to be punished for the offence, in the other case, no, not necessarily to answer, but to sign yourself, not necessarily for the mother-in-law or for the wife - all such ambiguity that the law simply does not regulate. To avoid ingenuity, I would like to quote you on what the statistical office has written about this in 2000, which today proposes a different explanation. I quote, "Why is there no question of a person's religion in the census?" He wrote the following: "We are aware," this is a quote, "that in the 1991 census we were able to ask only one question about this subject, but so at the time of the census itself and in later interpretations of this sign it was clear that the question described in this regard was not understood." In 1991, the Statistical Office claims that the question raised was misunderstood. "In addition, it would also be very difficult for the 2001 census to educate censusers - eight to nine thousand will - for an appropriate and correct and insidious method of asking this question. On the basis of thorough methodological studies on the inclusion of this issue in the 2001 census, the Statistical Office presented the issue to the Government and the Statistical Council and the Government to the National Assembly, as well as the text of the census law, where we deliberately omitted the issue in the proposed contents of the census. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered the census law even twice, in two sets, and agreed to do so." End of quote of the 2000 opinion of the Statistical Office. Today, for unexplained reasons, it is completely different. With these clear and unequivocal conclusions from the government and the statistical office, today's arguments are not sufficiently credible. Just justifying the interests of users is not enough. These interests are, I would say, understandable, I do not challenge them, but the constitutional and professional arguments cannot be as diametrically changed in six months as they are changing in these cases. As a result, we do not understand where the reasons for a change of attitude are. We still believe that many constitutional, professional, methodological arguments are against this issue being included in the census and that the use or inclusion of this issue in the census would lead to more misunderstandings than solutions to issues. In doing so, I should like to state exactly what happened on this issue at the time of the 1991 census, since these data have not been provided so far. At the meeting of the mother’s working body, it was said that it had rejected the response of 6,000 scribes. Here at the meeting, they were said to have been cca. 300,000, but the actual data is as follows. In the answer "no believer" is number 85,485. In the answer "I didn't want to answer" is number 82.837. And in the answer "unknown" 294,318 are listed. Together, therefore, those who did not want to reply or their response is unknown are over 377,000, not about 300,000, as was said in the introduction by the government representative. These figures show, sufficiently speaking, that there are problems with the clarification of this issue. We believe that this moment of argument is sufficient, and we expect that, for reasons that until recently, we will decide not to include this issue in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go. Mr France Tsukati will then speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group also agrees with the proposal for a law on the census of households, housing in the Republic of Slovenia, including the proposed amendments supported by the mother's labour force, which is an internal policy committee. This is particularly true for the adoption of the amendments to Articles 5 and 8 already on the table. We strive to comply consistently with the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the Census of Households and Housing Act, which explicitly states what my predecessor has already said that we would not delay the debate and repeat the cases that have already been said. Therefore, why would we describe the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia also as to the religious belief, the membership of this or other religious community, or the undecidedness, if I understand the possible answers. Even if this question were merely a voluntary question, whether the censusers would be able to be impartial enough to this question or not to tend to such or a different answer in their own conviction. Who will answer such questions or those questions for children and youth, the sick, the elderly, the disabled? Probably one of the parents or one who will answer the question, because I know how the census is going on and I was a writer myself years ago. The answers will be the same as the one who will give these answers for the whole family. Who will benefit from such information? Information on religious affiliation if the country needs them for its necessary work, without delay, for any need to present them, the representative of the government is here, on the ground, to present them. If this is justified, we, too, are for this issue to be written down and then the data will be selected. However, we want to see that, if there is no such need, there is no new question as to who is by religious belief, who belongs to whom, not to be counted by who belongs to this or that religious community, if that is not really necessary. Therefore, if it is logical that every ten years, for the needs of the country, we should make a census of the population, households and dwellings, in accordance with the needs that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u89	Your Honor! The law is certainly necessary, the census for 10 years is desirable. It seems a shame that this is not already happening this year, that it has been postponed to the next year. I would, of course, point out my agreement to the trends to establish a quality register of apartments, buildings, households, floor owners and so on. That is why we strongly support all these amendments that are building a census in this direction. With regard to religion, it seems a little strange to us why this question actually raises so many doubts, so many questions, vague answers, because the census has already known the questions to which the inhabitants have answered or have not answered, which is optional, bringing together data that has served exclusively statistical processing. If the question of religion is addressed in such a way as to ensure constitutional freedom of reply, it does not seem to us that there is anything controversial or questionable that this is also among the questions that will be included in the census.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. At the same time, Mrs. Majdi, I'm sorry I renamed her.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on amendments to the law on censuses, households and housing. If the rules on the ten-year interval were to be followed, the census should be carried out this April, but this will not happen until next year because of some obstacles. Such a decision must be confirmed by a change in the law before us. Since the last census in Slovenia, then under the SFRY, it has been exactly ten years. A month and a half before the declaration of the independent state, the last census was carried out, which highlighted some of the last photographic pictures of Slovenia. In addition to a series of issues covering personal, demographic, property, housing, household and a variety of other data, the 1991 census also included the question of religion. Recall that such a question was raised in 1953. In 1991, the majority of respondents answered that question, although the answer was optional due to the sensitivity of the data. We must admit, however, that decades ago, the data obtained was often given for various purposes, from research to political. Our new Slovenian Constitution of 1991 stipulates that confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free and that no one is obliged to define his or her religious and other beliefs. The Personal Data Protection Act also requires controllers of personal data databases who are empowered to collect them by law to collect personal data relating to racial or other origins, political, religious or other beliefs, union membership or sexual behaviour, solely on the basis of written consent of an individual. Secondly, the same law provides that the above data may be collected from other persons or obtained and merged from existing personal data databases only by the written consent of the person to whom they relate, unless the user intends to use them for statistical or scientific research purposes, in a form that does not allow the identification of individuals. The fact is, therefore, that Slovenian legislation in this area is very strict and therefore the subject of various professional views, which also led to the fact that last summer the census law did not contain the question of religion and that this year the government supplemented it again. Initiatives to raise the question of religion in the 2002 census included the Ljubljana Theological Faculty, the Evangelical Church, and the government office for religious communities. At the proposal of the Consolidated List, the mother body of the Internal Policy Committee supported the decision to withdraw the question of religion from the law. As we received the information, the Consolidated List addressed the Government's initiative two days later to delete its own proposal for a descriptive data on religion in order not to arouse unnecessary, perhaps politically motivated, debate. In the opinion of the proposers and co-thinkers, it would be very difficult to make this question constitutionally correct, and it could only be answered in writing when a member of the household is present at the time of the census and should not do so for absent members. There are also considerations regarding the response of parents on behalf of their children. The fact is, then, that the question of religion, as well as of nationality, is somehow forgotten if we adhere consistently to legal provisions, the necessity of written consent makes the census process very complicated or even impossible. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we believe that this is the kind of information we need. The research value of this data, the public dimension of religious affiliation and the interest of the State in the spiritual space to which its citizens are included is important. Data are relevant in combination with other data. This question, in our view, would not be unacceptable to human beings, since, under normal circumstances, we do not hide our beliefs, even religious ones, or at least should we not hide them as some socially undesirable and exclusively intimate, but religious affiliation is also made public. The definition of religious affiliation is the right of each individual. We are convinced that the profession is able to ask the question of religion in such a way as to produce quality and uniform data. However, everyone understands this issue, and we must not underestimate our citizens and citizens. Perhaps it would be easy to ask which religious community belongs, each being given the opportunity to answer that question, or to reject that question at all. This issue, however, is in the public interest according to the data and, ultimately, part of the image of the country, which shows how it pays the lives of its citizens at all. It is therefore necessary to place on the scale the complexity of performance, on the one hand, and the desirability of the data on confession, on the other hand. The New Slovenia Group supports the right solution, that is to ask a question about religion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give the floor to the Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Janez Podobnik and then Mr Aloise Peterle signed up for the debate in writing first. I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I admit that I was pleased to hear the performances of my fellow Members before me, both Mr Potræ, who made arguments against and colleagues who made arguments for me. I was particularly pleased to listen to Mrs Zupanovo, because I knew very well the information she received or the texts - I have some thoughts written before me and they are very similar to yours because we had the same material. And that's good. It's not much about the subject, but it's present, and a lot of the thought is very similar to the one you mentioned. I think that, together, we can find that there could be a constitutional or legal objection to such a decision, so that we can also ask the question on the list about religion. As a representative of the parliamentary group, last Friday at half past two, when my colleague Potrč found that very few of my fellow Members had listened to me, I explained the views of our group. We will support the Government's proposal and we will oppose the amendment of the committee that proposed that this provision be deleted. I suggested, and today this is happening to try to find a solution that will be good with arguments. Therefore, our Group believes that the question of religion can be included in the census, both constitutionally and legally. We're sure that's possible. It seems important to me to respond to some of the concerns raised by my colleague Potrč or to give us our view, this time my view. He noted that the 1991 census raised this issue poorly. And that'll hold. Indeed, in 1991, some rightly point out that perhaps this issue was not best raised at the time. However, this fact cannot be the reason why this time the question of religion should be omitted. We firmly believe that in Slovenia we have good qualified experts to formulate the issue, sociologists and others who deal with these issues. Secondly, colleague Potrč stated and correctly identified, and I do not even dispute that the Bureau of Statistics has changed its position. That's a fact. He really changed it. It is now necessary to assess why he did so. Kolga Potrč cites the opinion of the Justice Director from 5.1.2000 when he responded directly to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the processing of personal data on religion in the census. From this letter, colleague Potrč finds reasons for not including this issue in the census - of course, here is this subjective approach - but I see them for myself. This opinion is written down, and I believe that these arguments are for: "From this point it follows that the processing of personal data as well as sensitive personal data, such as confession, is only possible in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Yes, only in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. The draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in the Republic of Slovenia may provide that the person listed may not be obliged to express a confession, but that the processing of personal data on confession in the 2001 census, in our opinion, may be processed only on the basis of written consent of the person to whom the personal data relate. Yes, only on the basis of written consent. We agree. However, we are of the opinion that written consent may be a specific point in the description field, which is already a technique, a technology signed at the time of the census by the data subject if he decides and transmits the information on religion. So it is no longer a matter of yes or no, and whether this is constitutionally or legally disputed. That's not a question. But it's a question of performance. The question of the difficulty of performance or perhaps the speed of performance may also be a question of how much it would cost. We believe that a way would be found that would be corrected and not have a significant impact on the complexity of performance in the census on this issue. When reference is made to a constitutional provision justifying a possible constitutional dispute, the demand for such data, and this argument is answered by the fact that any possibility of not answering the question may be forgotten by another provision of the Constitution, which is also important. Article 41 of the Constitution speaks of freedom of conscience. Confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free. The second paragraph, however, is important, to which colleague Potrce also pointed; no one is obliged to define his religious or other beliefs. Yes, but the first question is important. Thus, confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free. My position, when I support the Government's proposal to list this issue, is also justified by the fact that Slovenian society is undoubtedly so mature that there is no room in it to express fear of public expression of loyalty. Another time. I am convinced that there is a research value to this data. Third time. I am convinced that the public dimension of religious affiliation is an integral part of the audience's life rate, which is called the state of Slovenia. Fourth time. The country of Slovenia should also be interested in the spiritual space of Slovenk and Slovenes. Fifth. The public interest was expressed according to these data. I am convinced that belonging to a church or a religious community is part of an individual’s identity, which he has the right to present publicly. I would like to conclude with a similar comparison as already stated by colleague Majda Zupan. So we have a scale and on this scale we have two sides. On the one hand, we put the difficulty of carrying out this issue and on the other hand, the desirability of this data, i.e. the question of religion. I am confident that if we overwhelmingly support this decision, that this is a question in the census, with the help of experts both at the office and others, we will find a way to ensure that the implementation is properly prepared and that this information will be properly used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of the Bureau of Statistics. First of all, I would like to say that someone who knows at least something about statistics knows about the meaning of such statistical surveys or the census itself and related research. I do not imagine the normal functioning of society without a census of the population with all the interesting demographic structures, which, of course, are also the basis for determining whether a policy has been successful, such as social or housing, whether something has happened or not. In short, if we close our eyes to some facts that are part of our lives or our society, I think it does no good to anything, maybe some late ideology can benefit. Ten years is the measure that is normal in normal countries for the implementation of the census and in the former common country was the continuity of those decades since 1961, and after World War II this happened twice at other times. So, I can't believe it, I believe it already, but I understand it's hard that Drnovskov's government for such an important project, which happens every ten years, simply didn't devote any resources, it didn't do anything, it didn't put it into action, and I call it government and state disgrace. Because normal countries provide censuses for ten years. The list just can't be forgotten. This is not a needle in the Slovenian haystack, it is a country project for ten years, which, of course, also requires strong professional or organisational preparation, although every ten years it is not necessary to ask new questions. Byjuk's government has identified this situation and has reacted immediately. I'm saying we couldn't understand that. The matter soon came to the government, and representatives of the Bureau of Statistics were also surprised that the previous government had dedicated this to the second year by explaining that there was no money this year. Ladies and gentlemen, is the second year of the multi-monetary, as in 2001, or was it in 2002? So the money argument is off. Drnovšk’s government simply ignored this and put us in an unsustainable or unsuspecting state. The Bajuk government brought the matter forward to Parliament, the law was passed in July, the funds were promised and nothing happened. Today we again have an explanation that there was no or no money and that it will be the case in 2000. So, I must express indeed more than amazement at such casual rule, which, of course, leads this country into statistical disgrace. Because we won't be comparable to anyone around us again. Others work on the 10th, and we'll work on the 11th. I don't know if there is a need for initiative in the field of statistics that has clear rules of the game, especially as regards demographic censuses. Now, here's to the subject that's already been discussed. I'm seeing some strange reasoning that is actually based on mistrust towards the participants in the census. Questioners are supposed to have problems, it's hard to ask, it's terrible introductions, it's bad for writers, it's not only for people who are hard to answer, they don't understand questions, and so on. I don't know, I hear that the Slovenians are kind of in a row about intelligence, with others. I don't know why there's no such debate in Germany, why you can read religious affiliation in résumés there in the first sentence. No one's making a problem out of that. You probably know why not. Or in other countries, you know that there are many people who ask this question without politicization and who know how to ask and who can answer. And I don't know why we would call Slovenia an exception, which is exactly the question he can't answer. The second question is who doesn't want to answer or won't answer. The Constitution guarantees him that right. But there are people who want to answer. This has been shown in the lists so far. And that information, I think, was very interesting for the country. I have not signed any petitions or applications to have this matter in, but I would respect the interest of civil society on a religious basis if it wanted to be included in the list of this matter for the first time. And I think that it would be very interesting to have a social demographic information about what religion is like with us, no matter how many people would reject that answer. As the question of how to question a question is once raised, I would ask who determined the question of whether it is professional or political. I'm interested in who put pressure on the profession to ask the same thing, and now it's being said that people didn't understand the questions. I wonder if that's why there's a survey or an opinion of some pollsters or 6,000 questioners. When it comes to the question, I would suggest the following, in the expectation that we will only be able to support the position of the government and those who want this issue to be on the list. Therefore, it would not suggest that the question should be changed too much and that the way of the question should not be changed so much that it would no longer be possible to compare it in 1991 with 2002. If they are trained in a very different way now and ask a very different question, or if the method changes, we can get a very different result. Then there will be politicisation when the numbers are, I don't know, just in which direction, wherever they change, then of course there will be a big debate about what happened. Of course, the argument on data security is not valid, since the constitutional questioner may either reject the answer or not be required to answer it. So I suggest that we not be so distrustful of the people who will be asked and of those who will ask the question. We think that everyone is reasonable and normal, that this part of the census can also be done without any particular problems, as is done elsewhere in the world. I think that this statistic would be useful for us for a lot of things, even in terms of, say, daily politics, but for a lot of our policy, regardless of who's in government. Of course, I will support this proposal because I would also like to follow some statistical culture that should be part of our general culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Potch has a replica of Mr Peterlet's performance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I can only find that in addition to the current government, in addition to the Bureau of Statistics, there are several prominent representatives of the former government, those who have forgotten what they thought a month or a year ago. That is why Mr Peterle does not dispute with me, and Mr Podobnik does not, although he was much more kind, but he is embroiling himself. Mr. Peterle! 29.6.2000. As far as I know, Dr. Bajuk was Prime Minister and you are the Foreign Minister, the government has proposed a law to the National Assembly, which was also passed by him, which did not include this issue. In her explanation for not including him, she briefly wrote what I was talking about. She wrote: Among these sensitive questions for a person is the question of religion. Such data on a person in accordance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act do not make sense to collect the description, since each such reply should be given the written consent of each person listed for the collection of such data. Such a method of collection for the most extensive statistical research, in rounding, [[This is also a list]] , is not appropriate or cannot provide adequate quality of the data collected. I don't object that you've changed your mind, but that you don't argue with me. Take your opinion one year ago, with the arguments you had at the time, and with the arguments you have today. But you didn't make any arguments today. Today you have stated the political definition that you are in favour, but you have not changed the arguments. As regards Mr Podobnik's opinion. One problem, Mr Janez Spožnik - my colleague - I see no - not that we have written in Article 10 that this information also requires clarification as to whether there is agreement or not, because it is supposed to be a provision, the census person is not obliged to express national, ethnic and religious affiliation, and the census questionnaire should contain a legal instruction on this. Let's just say these things are still acceptable. This is also what I refer to when I talk about the issue recorded by the Ministry of Justice on 5 January, which we both read equally in this part. Only the Government's argument to the Secretariat's warning goes to a very different place. It explains that it may also be asked without the consent that it may also be asked without consent by reference to the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act. Here is, I would say, a great leap made and in this part I referred to Mrs Nives Marinšek, State Secretary also from times, Mr. Podobnik, when your client was also in the government, and when she said 'no, in no case without written consent'. All I am saying is that the questions are, because in the end most will decide, and I do not think that this is one of the descriptive issues that the country will remain or fall into. But I think it's funny, if, I say, you have strange stories coming out of your mouth today, but you forget what everyone in the government who made that proposal then signed it. Have you read and thought, I don't know. But you signed it because I have this black on white. No arguments, legal, methodological, altered, except that it would be cultural and nice to have this information. I'm not even denying it. I'm sorry. I would also be interested in these data, properly collected. In 1991 alone, when we collected them, we did not have the constitution that we have today. We swore to respect this constitution. Mr Podobnik said yesterday, on one topic, that we must be consistent with the warnings given by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. And don't mind me returning this to him and that I want to be very consistent with the warnings that the secretariat has also given. True, there are legal questions. And I didn't make up methodological problems. They are all quoted in opinions that, indeed, a year ago, and perhaps the statistical profession has progressed so far that these problems are no longer, the Statistical Office has also given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Janez Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Potsch for a moment. If we come into the situation that we will consider in the National Assembly a law amending the law on the organisation and work of ministries and when all fellow Members read the opinion of the Secretariat and if we will then fully respect it, I am honored for the entire State Assembly dinner. If we respect what the secretariat has written. And that we will not all go to the last paragraph of the opinion of the secretariat where we are looking for a by-pass solution with a legal interpretation that gets a political majority for a solution. If we stick together and take that opinion into account, I'll give you all dinner. I would like to briefly rephrase my colleague Ptræ, who, as a well-known consistent parliamentarian, has found some arguments where our argument is weak. First, I would like to respond to his statement that the government is rejecting or responding and to the opinion of the secretariat and the amendment of the committee. The Government refers to the second paragraph of the Personal Data Protection Act. I suggest that I read it: "Personal data relating to national, racial and other origins, political, religious and other beliefs, education, health status, other than communicable diseases, and sexual behaviour may also be collected from other persons or acquired and linked from existing personal data databases only upon the written consent of the person to whom they relate, "except" and to which the government has hanged itself, but is a legal provision, unless the user intends to use personal data for statistical or scientific research purposes in a form that does not allow the identification of individuals, with a specific database and type of personal data and method of collection." So it says that unless the user intends to use personal data for statistical purposes. I propose that we look at the provision of the law, Article 9, "data collected by the census shall be used only for statistical purposes. Except, I think it's housing. This is where the government's argument closes and has its own logic. But I owe it to you for a short time, and I forgot to answer my colleague Pohorc earlier when he asked if we would convince you that this information is also in the public interest. And that seems to me an important question that you've asked. This is an additional argument to decide to put this information on the list. I have before me a letter from the Office for Religious Communities on 18.1.2001 addressed to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, it reads: "In view of the intended headline changes, the office of the addressee", which means that the office "proposed to include among the additional content of the demographic characteristics of persons such as nationality, mother tongue, language of conversation, also the question of the belongings of the religious community", or the Office proposes such a solution, rather than a religion, "but now the argument here is why, "the office finds in its work that the demand of the public is [[religious communities, media, public authorities and individuals]] on that subject very much." Representatives of some religious communities also based the possibility of a declaration of belonging to a religion on Article 41 of the Constitution, under which confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free. So from this sentence, from this point of view, it could be understood, but of course I interpret it only in a good way, so that the data will not be misused in any way. Here I also wrote down the opinion of Lidija Majnik's colleague in the debate itself on the committee when she said that speculation could be greater if there was no data. So it's always a two-sided question. I therefore further substantiate the reasons for supporting the government and rejecting the amendment of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The draft decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We are voting on this proposal. 66 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments, of 22.3.2001. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making for the new Article 2a and the amendment for the new Article 2a, whose proposer is the group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 7. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment to the new Article 2a has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 3 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its parent working body support the amendment and the article as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to Article 4 and the article is not entirely necessary because the article is deleted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 4 has been adopted only to delete this text We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the two amendments to Article 5 and on the Article as a whole. The first amendment is proposed by the Internal Policy Committee, with a note, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 8 is irrelevant, and the amendment under Article 2 is proposed by the Cimperman Janez. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since we have already heard all the arguments for and against the general debate, I can only reiterate that we alone, including our fellow Members in the Group, will not support the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to delete paragraphs 4 and 5. This would mean that this article also deletes religion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Cimperman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! A simple defence to the amendment I have tabled under Article 5. If adopted, this amendment will also allow for a list of those housing and housing facilities which are not available on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your word. In the general debate, many arguments could be heard for collecting information on a person’s religion or religious beliefs. However, there were also arguments as to why this information should not be taken into account or collected. I would like to explain my voice, which will be like the position of the Committee on Internal Policy, which means that I object to the fact that in the statistical data collection there is also information on the individual's religious beliefs. I link my opposition to what has been heard to produce quality and unique information on individual religious beliefs. However, I think that the research value of this data, as well as the statistical value of this data, could also be read from the point of view of a wide range of experts, which did not mean that this data could be collected in the statistical inventory. I have also not heard anyone mentioning experts who felt that a much better quality of information could be obtained from a Slovenian public opinion, which, in addition to one question about religion, would have another question than a control question. Finally, I also object to this information in the statistical inventory from the point of view of all those, and there were few who felt that the last census in which this information was requested was very difficult to achieve in many cases that the censuser's will was respected. For it is not only how the question was raised, but also what the scribes thought and whether they really took into account the will of the scribes. I would not add to this all the details of how things start to get complicated, and then I may start to question, of course, the research value of such data, and also the quality and uniformity of these data, if parents speak about this issue instead of their children or other persons for other members of the household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to warn you about this amendment. In the event that the amendment is adopted, we would point out that it would be advisable to examine whether it also shows an appropriate correction of the criminal provision. The penal provision now explicitly treats the third paragraph of Article 10 with regard to the declaration of nationality, namely, the scribe, if it asks against the will to be pronounced, and now, in the same paragraph, it is possible to make a confession. In favour of a consistent legal system, it would probably indicate that, if positively defined, the need to harmonise a criminal provision would also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. I'll explain my voice. I think it is right to support and support this amendment of the Committee for the following reasons and reasons. I have already experienced more counting and polling in this regard for citizens, and the questions asked by the respondents or the people surveyed. It is right that we have in mind the level of these people, because they have a specific seminar where they are taught how to ask these questions. Of course, it's from their personal definition of certain people who may be underestimated and think, "I do, because this one doesn't know much about it, and I can tell him what I think or what I'm rooting for." That is why I do not believe that this question is justified because not everyone will be able to explain to people as much as they should under law. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Kebrich for a moment. I firmly believe that a somewhat more complex procedure, which will be necessary if we do not support the amendment of the committee, will not prevent the quality of the signature. Of course, some effort is needed. But if there is a will, if there is the greatest consensus on this issue, then I am sure that, with the help of sociologists, lawyers and others, both the office and other institutions need to carry out their mission fully. Therefore, the complexity of the procedure cannot be a reason to vote in favour of the amendment of the committee. Such a question or reason could also be found in some other issues, which are also an integral part of this inventory and are also in the sphere of so-called sensitive issues. And we don't open them at all because there's some resistance to be made. Nothing happens in itself. So we are convinced that this matter is feasible and that it is in accordance with the law and the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u113	Comrade Squirrel, I believe in well-intention. I have no reason to think anything else. But the National Assembly does not have a clear view of this issue. I would ask that the Secretariat or the proposer, in view of the full variety of interpretations of the meaning, at least say this whether or not it requires this personal clarification. Either a special statement will be prepared or a special statement referred to in Article 41, paragraph 2, will be made on that inventory sheet. Will only those who declare it in their personal name answer? Will they be able to provide information for family members? What will be the child’s question? If there are no such answers, gentlemen, with all good intentions, there are many questions that we do not have answers to when we adopt the law. And I didn't get any answers while I was putting them up.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you. I have thought in this regard about the proposal that some have put forward to identify this matter with a public survey or with a public poll. Look, ladies and gentlemen! Will questions be different as to the data, or will you find some other questioners who will do the survey and will be intelligent and capable? So, to this question that you ask one of them, we don't give up and we don't give up, and no survey can replace one census. This is impossible, especially in this matter, because I do not think that the standard rules for standard samples are likely to apply in the same way as any other public survey. I will support the government and I will vote against the amendment, also because I trust people to be able to answer this question and that people are also able to ask in accordance with the professional instructions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u117	I'd like to replicate. When I referred to the survey, I would like to stress, however, that those respondents and respondents to the survey do not perform on behalf of the country as do those who will perform the census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The debate is still under way, Mr. Peterle. Anybody else want some? Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u119	I would only tell Mr. Peterlet so much that polls are classified. That's not secret. This is an entry into an apartment, a list of a family, an apartment, family members, etc. There's a tiny difference in that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. And I think this line is linked to too much fear and too much ignorance. I therefore believe that it is only worth considering that statistics also capture these data, as proposed by the government. If the concerns expressed here were kept in full, then the whole list is questioned, not just that question. If someone doubts the qualifications of censusers in this matter, then it seems to me that it will be even more difficult to train them to capture data in a more complicated segment in a qualitative way. If we are talking about protecting privacy and implementing it as consistently as it is likely reasonable to implement it, then the question of the general approach is whether anyone in the family can be held accountable for anyone else. In all circumstances, not just this situation again. This is a solution that has been on the census in the past and has not questioned the authenticity of the census, so it seems to me that it is possible, in spite of everything, to remain, that someone in the family can be responsible for everything. If that seems controversial to me, then of course all the information someone gives for someone else is at stake. They can be controversial. I'm just cariculating things, yeah. He can hide here with his hands, but if someone asks me how much land my neighbor owns, I can't answer him. But I know, let's say what nationality it is and I know what it's like to have higher questions about freedom of religion. To try to be as specific as possible. And these types of personal statements that Mr Potrč is talking about can be a solution, but they are then higher than any data relating to an individual. This cannot be an excuse only when we are discussing this, I think, an overly politicised issue of voluntary declaration of religion. Even when we are talking about Slovenian public opinion, of course this is not the same as the census. Slovenian public opinion enables quality projections. Perhaps the most quality projections that polls in Slovenia have, but at no time can it replace the census. A thread for one moment. Even if the data are finally covered statistically, the methodology does not allow the substitution of the statistical census with surveys, but also on such large samples and such quality respondents. This is about completely different things. Polls are those that actually allow for more speculation than statistics allow. Here I have to ignore all the good and bad jokes at the expense of statistics, but the statistics, so cleaned up, nevertheless do not allow for as much speculation as they allow for such well-performed surveys, which are actually designed for projections and with these various speculations in the main good sense of the word. For this reason, I believe that it is necessary to establish or maintain, if you wish, this time-frame for capturing this data. I am personally interested in what is going on, in view of the changes that were made in the 1990s, the question of clarification on this issue. Whether the trend of this secularisation continues or not, or whether the new state or new circumstances have reversed. We have some statistics. And now, whether it is in the public interest or not, I do not hope to judge this, but certainly it must be in Parliament's interest to obtain as many accurate data as possible, so that there will be as few speculations as possible about this, the pieces talking about various issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. It is now in the next order, first Mr Peterle, who wishes to replicate Mr Lavrinc, then Mr Lavrinc and then Mr Sok. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u123	I have a replica of those who spoke of secrecy. I think that's what Ambassador Potter was talking about. From personal experience, I'll tell you that I don't believe anything in a secret argument on the subject of a survey. At a time when I had a slightly different function from the current one, they phoned our phone, which is a secret phone, but they phoned, you don't get it in your phone book. My wife answered, and they started like this: we're an organization surveying. Madam, whom would you choose, Drnovska, Kučana, Janša and several other politicians, of course I was not one of them. She said, "Could I be for Peterlet, too? They said they could, if they wanted to, if they couldn't. Well, then it took a while, because sometimes my wife's tough on things like this. Finally, remember this sentence, the lady on the other side of the wire said At the beginning she said it was a secret poll, of course as always. [[...]] Finally, she said, "Thank you very much, ma'am, for your cooperation. You're Mrs. Peterlet, aren't you?" Well, it's not possible to make everything out of it, but the argument of secrecy here doesn't work. What Mr Školč said, from the survey can be concluded on the whole, this information cannot be this assessment, this conclusion that there should be an extrapolation model in the back, or whatever we call it, cannot cover the credibility of the data provided by the census.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm really glad to hear some debater doing this with his left hand just like my fellow Member, Josef Školč. He began to assess whether our secretariat is capable of understanding and is verified for this also professionally to point out legal inconsistencies in this, in my view, a key legal issue, not political ones. I would advise all those who, with your left hand, have eliminated all concerns about illegality or the unconstitutionality to read again that chapter in the Constitution, which speaks of fundamental human rights and freedoms. And there's something else I'd like to tell you, and there's so much left of the study days. These rights are non-transferable. He can't use them or carry them with him, I don't know, my wife, my child, or so on. So the fact that someone else could do this for him is not possible, in my opinion, no, in my mind, it's not possible for me to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Sok and then the replica, Mrs Danica Simšič, for the implementation of Mr Školč. Mr. Skolcz, would you like a replica of Mr. Lavrinc's performance? After this order, first of all, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I have to say that this debate actually doesn't hurt me anymore because I know how I'm going to vote anyway, and I'm sure that everyone sitting here knows how we're going to vote. I would therefore suggest that this debate could be concluded and put to a vote as soon as possible, since the end is irrelevant. If that is not the case, then the latter will be the one who, if they are not satisfied with this information, will find that a re-examination will be necessary in order to reach this data. If you look at any tourist guide or lexicon, for every country in the world you have written confessions and also percentages of how they are distributed. I don't know what it'll say about Slovenia. I don't think a hundred percent of the atheists will. But I'll tell you one more thing. A while ago, the priest in Kidrichev told me how he invited all the officials of that place to the ceremony, and then some complained, saying, "What is inviting us to do, because we do not go to church, but we are not Christians"; and the priest then replied, "Yes, I have looked into the book of Christians, you have all been baptized, so far no one has been released." So that's it. I would like to know how much then - let us make this survey in this House, how many of you have been expelled from this book of Christians, and how many of you have not been baptized, especially you from DeSUS, who are a little older, who you say we do not need this question. So, I am sure that this issue should be, and I fully agree with what Mr Školč said, that we can then question all the issues, not only that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Simšič, a replica, please, then Mr. Skolč.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I would like to remind my colleagues, once again, of the second paragraph of Article 41, of what Mr Lavrinc has already said in the replica, of the Constitution and of the individual's inalienable right to define something. The 41st article says even more - let us not forget - that no one is obliged to define his religious or other beliefs. No one has to define themselves. What exactly am I trying to say, and why did I stop by? Because, in my opinion, it is necessary to derive from the personal rights conferred on us by this constitution. It is probably the last country to put an individual before a dilemma or the fact that something that the Constitution guarantees him does not have to be determined that he is required to be identified by that right. Even if he gives written consent, here we have not even learned how these questions will be asked, whether the person who asks, on behalf of the State, can at least prun or list 31 religious communities in that country if someone cannot at the moment determine which religion belongs, if the question arises. How well do we know the difference between Catholics and Christians here, colleagues and colleagues? How much difference does that make? Will this be written and recorded exactly that way or not? Then I would also like to replicate that part of the discussion with my colleague Školč when he said that the census was carried out several times, but that the question of religious affiliation was only asked twice or specifically raised in 1991. But remember, then the Republic of Slovenia did not have you and such a constitution. If we were not clear back then in 1991, it soon became clear to us why the definition of religion in this SFRY census was. Because Belgrade wanted to draw an Orthodox map of the country of Yugoslavia. Let us, however, be honest about some things and not be left entirely by our historical memory. And these things really aren't simple. Okay, here are some of you who advocate the view that the state meets the wishes of two religious communities about whether the census asks about religion and the desire of one college, it is theological college. Good thing I put it on the other side of the scale. We have read in the media that other religious communities, more than two, more than two religious communities, have addressed us, who want this not to be defined in the census. We're not going to fulfill this wish. I ask if we have learned anything from the census or from the situation in Italy in relation to the Slovenians and the law when we did not leave there and agreed that the Slovenians were counting. Now we're going to count the members of individual religious communities? I wonder why. I wonder why. Or from that interest that was in 1991 or from another? Is the introduction of a special church tax perhaps of interest? Because if this is an interest, then it is definitely the worst or very serious abuse. Subtlely more than you'd think. And if so, I also do not understand some colleagues, my colleague Peterlet, and so on, who are swearing on Europe, the European Union, etc. But after a study that is available to all Members and Members of Parliament, and which has already been cited here, we want to be among the countries of transition and certainly not among European and democratic countries with a long tradition. We do not want to join this society and the association, because none of these countries except Great Britain - and this has been explained why - does not have this information in the census. And I'm not as skeptical as, I think, Comrade Sok, it's better to be quiet and just make up your mind because we all know how to vote. However, I believe that we can still talk here and with what argument we can also convince someone that this constitutional provision that no one is obliged to define, is also fulfilled, justified and voted in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Školč has the replica and then Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u131	I would still take advantage of Mrs Simšič's call to listen to each other and then eventually decide to do so. I believe someone is also willing to listen to any argument. But it seems to me that in her discussion, or replica, there are some unwarranted fears or ignorance of the law. Look, the law explicitly states that there is no way to implement this then, except for the statistical conclusions. How, then, does this fear of being the basis for the introduction of church tax? It is also, of course, a question that is intended for someone to make a voluntary declaration of what a confession is, if any, that is left to him to decide for himself. And in this sense, his constitutional right has not been violated. It is even less broken because this information is not used for any other purposes related to personal circumstances. That's how I understand the law. If you can see that there's some danger inside that I missed, please tell me, and let's get on with this part of the law. It's completely irrelevant if someone knows all 31 religious communities. It's not a survey where someone would choose one. Then he decides, they're not elections, he says if he decides, he's a member of a religious community or a divorce. Even if he doesn't know anyone else. A surveyor will probably be able to read it from the 31st. And what I have raised my hand to do is to refer to Mr Lavrintz, who is in certain things, I will say, a force of tenderness. But I don't think he listened to me completely, or at least he listened very carefully. That's why I repeat. If the concerns that have been discussed and that I have said are valid and relevant, then other issues also apply and should not only apply when we are talking about this issue. From this point of view, I have called for us to reconsider the matter in its entirety. But I didn't, as he tells me, swing over the arm of the secretariat. If you look through the history of this Parliament, where we are both performing for a long time, I think I have never done this practically, and I am not sure about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In the following order the speakers applied: Mr Janez Podobnik has a replica of the implementation of Mrs Danice Simšič, then is the replica of Mr Jakič to the implementation of Mr Sok, then he wants to discuss Mr Slavko Gaber, Mr Lavrinc and Mr Peterle. Thank you very much. So, Mr. Sponik, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase with my colleague Danica Simsic for a moment. I admit, I'm a little surprised by the sharpness of her performance. In no way would I accept the subtony that there is any possibility of any abuse or other purpose in this matter. If you have any argument, tell them, I don't know them. Secondly, from this material that I have received, the author of this material is a statistical office, it is stated that one of the areas of so-called sensitive issues is also the area of national delicacy that is collected in such censuses. But he's not even embarrassed at all, because I'm pretty sure that according to the doctrine of the census, the scribes will do it well. So we're not opening it at all. It must be said again, the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution states: "No one is obliged to define his religious or other beliefs." That is the case, and this constitutional provision is properly implemented, if the position of the Justice Department is also taken into account, I have already cited it, that the possible implementation of the census is also included in it on the basis of two assumptions that it is compatible with the Personal Data Protection Act and will be in accordance with the protection of personal data and that the processing of personal data on religion can only be processed on the basis of written consent of the data subject. And that's an important question. Under such a assumption, in no way, in my opinion, will this provision of the Constitution be violated. I am also sure that it is not a question of constitutionality or legality, but it is a question of how to carry out the census technically and correctly. There's something else I'd like to say. Given the issue raised, this is a matter of argument. I believe that we are now voting, we will vote on this issue. We've probably already convinced each other somehow, one or the other. I would be very happy to hear a government representative's statement on this debate as well. For we, colleagues and colleagues, have expressed our views among ourselves. I would hope to argue, even on the basis of the Secretariat's position, that the issue of constitutionality or legality will not be raised. The feasibility of this provision is a key issue. That's how I understood the debate. This would therefore be an important performance by government representatives. If they don't answer, of course we will vote without them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u135	Excuse me, Madam Vice President. I personally belong to those who believe that, as the law is written, it is written by supplementing Article 10 in accordance with the Constitution. I don't believe this record is in conflict with the text of the Constitution. It is not contrary to Article 41 of the Constitution. Therefore, I do not think that the discussions in this direction have a particular weight. What I find less convincing is also what some of my colleagues have said, but it concerns the question of the usefulness of this data. Before the two figures, we will now explicitly tell everyone that they are not to be spoken of, namely, the two areas which record the longest period of conflict in the history of the debate on personal expression. One, and that is the one that has the longest history, is the very question of religion. The second is the question of ethical belonging. None of these two data will be able to measure at a particularly high level of validation of the data that will be obtained in this way. We will measure a number of things, but to the very least the actualness and actual data on how many people are such and different ethnic affiliations and, of course, also religious affiliations. Especially because there will be a very interesting question of interpretations of what this information says: if you say in advance that someone is not obliged to say it, and you introduce it, or if you do not say it. Sociology has a lot to say on this subject. Therefore, I personally believe that, for this reason, there is no particular need to collect this information in this way, and at least personally, if I do not hear any very serious other arguments, I will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Lavrinc, then Mr Peterle and Mrs Danica Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your word. So the situation is almost ridiculous. I disagree with Mr. Slavko Gabr. What do I disagree with? Whether this question belongs to this list or not is a matter for discussion. Those of us who felt that the fundamental right enshrined in Article 41 of the Constitution was not properly exercised in this law, such as this, we resisted. He also warned the secretariat about this. Why? I will read: Data on absent members of the household, as described in the second paragraph of Article 10, shall be transmitted by that Member of the household most known to him and by one of the parents, adoptive parent or guardian. The person described, and this is what you think is solved, is not obliged to say about national, ethnic, and the questionnaire must contain legal instruction on this. So if the marriage partner can say everything about the absent spouse, as the second paragraph points out, he will use, so to speak, his personal right as set out in Article 41 of the Constitution. And that's what I see as controversial. Nobody even tried to fix it. Not on the proposer's side anymore. That's why, I'll say, the devil of a fly eats, so I was just about to delete that part. And that is not a questionable thing.If anyone had the will so strong that it was incorporated for this law, that such data would also be captured, to prepare the matter in such a way that it would not be disputable. It's something about that, in general. Otherwise, I'll tell Mr. Skolcz, when the arguments run out, personal disqualifications begin. What he finally said is not an honor to the former president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, then Mrs. Danica Simšič and Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Since this is a proposal from the current government, I would like to recall the performance of Mr Drnovsk's term before us when it comes to the establishment of the government. He wasn't talking about the government program at the time, but he was talking about trust. He called us all together to trust. I'd like them to follow in this case as far as this is concerned. I have to say, when I read the coalition contract, I couldn't find it in there. I'll wait for the council to end. [[...]] So I did not find in the Great Coalition Coalition's coalition any intention or purpose after the enemy count or after the introduction of the church tax. [[...]] I really don't see that kind of fear. With regard to undecidedness or the right not to, I would like to say; sometimes when the children in school counted or asked who was going to church, we did not realize that there could be a right to not tell or walk or walk. We thought this thing was so unpolitical that even someone said that he was never missing when he was asked if he was going to a church. I think we can get past these times and act normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Danica Simsic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I was a little surprised to say by the label of Comrade Sponiki that I reacted sharply in the debate. If he thinks that I wanted to say things as clearly and uniformly as possible about sharpness, then I agree with his mark. Look. Today, there have been many speeches and questions about whether we have the right basis for asking ourselves and each of us about belonging, if you will, our souls. For religion is, of course, a definition of something, it can also be for atheism. I said earlier on purpose who would be able to define 31 religious communities, but this question does not cover only 31 religious communities. It covers all confessions. Even those who are not registered or officially recognised as religious communities in this country. On the question asked my colleague Janez Sponik, where my concern or concern that this census or finding of a confession may also lead to the possibility that there may be grounds for introducing a church tax, I will tell him on what grounds this concerns me. When we talk about concluding an agreement with the Holy Headquarters, of course, we mention a number of countries that have already signed agreements, various separatists, we say that we will not sign a Concordat, just as Croatia is not - we very much like to justify - but separate separate agreements on individual issues. And I went to see how and how Croatia accepted this and what is written in these agreements. The first was Separat 97 on legal issues - normally, this is the basis. Then they followed: separation of culture or education and education, then care for Catholic believers, members of armed forces and the police, and then, of course, fourth, last, economic issues. And in this last one, which was adopted by their Parliament in 1998, it is written in Article 6, paragraph 6, - I will read and then I will try to translate: "The international authorities of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia, in determining the said monetary amount, had in mind the percentage of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who declared themselves Catholic." In short, I will try to translate, yes, of course, but I quote from the original: "The competent authorities of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia have had in mind a percentage of the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have declared themselves Catholic," from the previous points. And if we follow Croatian trails and if Croatia is this pattern, then of course we have that too. And it also says what is financed from the state budget. I would not like to fail, but all four separatists have been accepted by their assembly; we do not have the spiritual supply and payment of the budget for spiritual care in the military, nor has Parliament, of course, accepted elsewhere, but would not go into this detail. In short, I would like to draw the attention of colleagues and colleagues to the fact that the issue may also have a very different dimension, and to leave this area of privacy and private identification, because, after all, it may not be possible for anyone during the census to change his mind or become a member of another religious community or religion, or to decide that he is not a member of any of these religions in his worldview definition. Finally, I would turn to Europe and the European Union in my replica. Not only does it not require unification, because it does not have it itself, but it does itself swear on specialised social research, which are on the relevant professional samples, with highly skilled respondents, which, of course, those who carry out the census of the entire population are not very highly qualified - they are trained, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Gaber has the word, then the replica of the implementation of Mrs Danice Simšič Mr Podobnik and then Mr Roberto Battelli. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u143	Madam Vice-President, in fact, I would like to apologize to Mr Lavrinc. I agree. It's exactly what he warned you about. In order for this law not to be contrary to the Constitution, it should be noted that this exception to ethnic and religious affiliation also applies in this line, where it is said that no one else can pronounce it instead. At the time of this assumption - the secretariat also pointed out - this law is not contrary to the Constitution, of course it is. Since it seems to me that the debate is going in this direction, that there are essentially too many open questions about this issue, that it is obvious, and that the dispute will also be evident publicly on this subject, it seems to me that this is just an additional argument that speaks in favour of the data we will receive - and I remain so - this is my main argument that this is not described in the inventory that the data to this extent will be unworthy to show support for the Committee's position and simply to decide that this data - like many others - is to be collected in a different way. Although let me put it this way: I do not share all the fears here expressed about what could happen to this data. That seems too much - at least personally - to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues and Mr Podobnik! Before I give you my word, allow me to inform you that on the balcony, the Prime Minister of the Free State of Bavaria is a delegation, Dr Edmund Stoiber, and allow me to greet him on your behalf. Good afternoon. Mr. Janez Podobnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u145	Yeah. I wouldn't want to argue with my replicas, or first I'd like to replicate Dr. Gabra. [[...]] There can't be an argument if there's some things the National Assembly doesn't hope to unify, but there's no such thing. It's our responsibility to make a decision. So this argument can't be the key. The argument you're giving, the usability of the data, that's a strong argument. In my previous discussions, I have tried to identify some areas where this information is useful. Perhaps you were not present in the Chamber earlier when I also quoted the state institution, namely the Office for Religious Communities, when it justified the public interest in this data. I used to count it. I can do it again. That's it, so that's the question. But I'd like to rephrase with my colleague Danica Simsic for a moment. When you said you didn't want to go with a replica on another subject, you did. I'm replicating your "by pass" and I want us not to continue because it's a different topic. The agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on legal issues - this is another topic - which I know and am not so few. In any provision, there is no basis in any minimum provision for your fears that this information on religion may be misused under this Agreement. And, of course, colleague Danica, this information is not accurate to inspire Slovenian negotiators on external matters Croatia or Croatian solutions. In my opinion, this information is not accurate. It is true, however, that the negotiators had translated many agreements, more than ten from Slovakia, Hungary, Italy, Israel, Germany and so on, and Croatia as a river, but this did not lead to an agreement. That's another topic, and I hope we don't continue it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli, then Mr Andrei Bajuk, then Mr France Tsukati and Mr Peterle have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I personally object to deleting the section on nationality in the census law. And that's because first of all, luckily, this will be the last time I know that such information will be collected in the census. And second, of course, because I think it will be very interesting to see the comparison between 1991, which was a special year, and the speciality of 2002 on this issue. With regard to religion and nationality, of course the two issues are equally sensitive from a statistical point of view, but in fact the matter is different, because it would be difficult for any of us, for example, to pretend to be a Frenchman, for example, or a Dane, or a Norwegian. While, of course, it is a matter of human belief whether he believes in a certain religion and God or not, or not, it depends more on belief, much more than it can be of national origin. With regard to the question of family members to answer certain questions concerning the absent persons who are described, I believe that in this case, there will be a section in the questionnaire that will say that there are certain questions, because there is no person, answered by someone else and, therefore, from a statistical point of view, these questions should have a different, lesser meaning than when a person answers themselves. As far as Mr Gabra's thinking is concerned, I only partially agree with him, because as far as the answer to these questions is optional, then it is probably true that if so many people have pleaded for a particular matter, then at least they are, at least there are so many. There could be more, but it's hard to expect there to be fewer. Of course, if the census is properly carried out, at which point we must not doubt, because we are just adopting a law to regulate the revised census course. I myself tend to reject the amendment of the committee, even because - if I paraphrase someone who is much more famous than I am and than we are here - also because I was not raised in a religious sense and therefore I have no objection to faith and believers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is not a replica, but only a comment on the question raised by Mr Potsch. Too bad, I don't think he's here, but we'll explain it to him later - it was a proposal that our government was supposed to send in that sense. I would like to thank the Drnovšk government for correcting this mistake, as far as it really was our mistake. I don't remember discussing this matter extensively at a government meeting. In fact, we have only debated the surprise that there was not enough resources planned in the budget to do this as the whole world did in a real year. And the problem that we had so we could look for where the budget was supposed to get it. So here I want to explain that, as far as this is concerned, I haven't changed my mind. I am grateful for all this debate, but I think that the proposal, as presented by the government, respects our constitution sufficiently. However, I would also like to say that sometimes it happens that the man who was Prime Minister is responsible for the whole. However, I would also like to see that Dr Drnovska's government will also correct another error, when we discovered that the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia did not collect taxes, as it would have been appropriate, we gave the task of doing so immediately. The Director of the Tax Administration has not yet done so today; I hope that he too will make this mistake - that this government will also correct such a mistake that threatens the equality of Slovenians before the law before the tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u151	The question that we are discussing seemed less important to me at the outset, and I have then wondered all the time during the discussion why and where the real arguments are, in fact, so strong that the issue is included in the list. You have not convinced me as long as you have spoken that this is contrary to the Constitution, that you are afraid for constitutional rights in the answers and so on, because it has always been ensured that questions will be properly asked or that everyone will answer or will not answer, as he wishes, from the questioners. Well, now only Mrs Simšičova has actually opened the door to me where the rabbit is concerned, but I must also say that these are attracted arguments for hair, which in fact tell me nothing in the sense that I should reconsider my thinking. So that I still see no reason to delete this issue, as I see no reason to delete other, perhaps more delicate questions about nationality. Perhaps only in the case of national ownership, for example, if the national community itself strongly opposed this through its representatives or whatever, then it would be fair enough to support their wishes, to respect their wishes, even though it would not understand why they would be afraid to make a declaration of their belongings. However, I would take this into account and would of course support the amendment to delete the question of nationality. In this case, on the question of religion, I do not see any representatives of believers who would be very vehemently opposed to this issue, so that I really see no reason why this question is not in there. In fact, the management of social problems, of course, if we want to manage them qualitatively, also requires data bases, statistics on multiples and also religious affiliation is one of the important data, such as data on marriage, education and many other things. A man himself who really wants to get quality data from such questions would even want to expand the range of issues rather than squeezing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Like the last one, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you. I would also like to conclude this debate slowly, although it falls into dimensions that I do not think are related to the census. In this respect, Mrs Simšič took us to Croatia and elsewhere. Look, I'd say if we're talking about a historical memory, then we don't even have to go to Croatia. One of the parties to the ruling coalition, not the smallest among them, proposed in contact with the Slovenian Catholic Church that in some way I would use this syntagma, the state financed the church from the budget - a connection with forests and such matters. I strongly oppose this, and I will object if it ever occurs to negotiate every year again how much part of the budget would be taken by this or that religious community. To what Mr Gaber has said, I would say once again: let us give little trust to people, as even the old Yugoslavia has trusted them. If we go to get everyone home and everyone signs, they'll go around seven times because they're never usually all people at home, because we've already seen the censuses and we know how this thing works. And that now someone will come with a list of 33 religious communities, and he will share with the children, whether they write down, maybe half the terms will not even be known, but the mother knows how she is being raised in the house or how she does not. In short, I don't think we need to invent any new methods here, because I think these are stable forms of questioning and we can get a good look at this data. However, if this is so limited that no one can say anything about absent persons about these issues, then this information will no longer apply. Then I highly doubt the usefulness of such data, because it will be incomparable and political conclusions on this basis because of the complete or large change in the method.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u155	I would like to convince those who are wondering what the usefulness of this data is, because of course the question is relevant or how correct such information is. We will certainly face more than one situation when we assess how many members of such or different religious communities are in Slovenia. We're not gonna get away with this, whether or not this list is just gonna bring the data or not. Of course, it is difficult for me to say that there is no flaw in this way of capturing data. We've been talking about them. And finally, with one of our colleagues, we talked about the same thing, and we didn't understand it twice. Thirdly, I will not try, because this is related to the negotiation of the mill; but it is a question of whether this information can be valid, let us ask another question: whether there is a more reliable way to capture this data in Slovenia. We have talked a lot about Slovenian public opinion. There's a sample of 2000, 2,100 of these respondents and then a projection. Of course, as colleague Gaber knows, countries that have developed monitoring instruments for different data. Our imperial sociology is certainly not on the tail of these studies, but in spite of everything; when I weigh these data that they provide to us, and the assessments they offer us, and the opportunity offered by the census at this time, I support that we get these data from the census, and then the donkeys discuss whether they are good enough or not good enough, what the number of those who did not want to define themselves means, and - if you want to - again, mention that so many and so many people participated in the census and did this for their loved ones. Still, it seems to me that if we compare these numbers 2000, 2 000 100 to 2 million, the statistical possibility of error is significantly smaller. Of course, I could say that these two are incomparable systems, but then I would open up a discussion that is more -- I will say -- to social colleges than really to parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you. I thought that I would not have to answer because I had already made my position clear enough on the Committee, but nevertheless; in view of such a split of opinions, I would like to point out that there may also be a third approach, which may not have been sufficiently exposed today. This is an approach to the encyclopaedic type's data. In fact, the information on religion will be for me when I ask, if I am asked, of course it will be much easier to give, than to answer the question, say, what are the charges in my apartment or what is the cover of the house I live in. What I'm saying is that all the questions that this law raises serve something. We have heard many times the question of what they serve and why and where are those arguments that today's silent government does not answer. So much for the case, help. However, one discontinuity would certainly be done, if not only in the first decade of the 21st century, but also later on, but also in the future, not in the historical, civil, and, above all, in the first decade of the 21st century. Today, or even in the 18th century, and when we look at what the structure of the inhabitants was in the so - called spiritual sense and not only through this political interest, it is certain that these data have value. The data on who and when did the last cover - for example - the roof, as prescribed by the law, will certainly, I will not say, serve only builders, architects, urbanists, landscapers, certainly sociologists and statistics. Data on our sources of survival, as we ask, will be answered, about our property, how much time we work on a day, how we travel to work, whether we produce food or not, will certainly benefit, from agronomists, sociologists, sociologists and statisticians. That's what I'm talking about in history. Data on the number of people in the apartment, such as how we have a kitchen equipped, whether we have a bathroom and a toilet, what material is the bearing structure of our home, what we are heating up with and what kind of facilities we have, will benefit economists, stats, sociologists, sociologists and history, as I say. And also data on national, ethical, and religious affiliation will also be used by sociologists, sociologists, cultural scholars, and, ultimately, theologians and linguists and educators, if I mention only a few. All I'm saying is that this is also a simple, simple part of a nation's identity card and I'm treating it as an encyclopaedic information that's useful to the nation. Of course, all this data in a different way, of course not with an absolute sample, can also be provided by public research and we have this experience. Public research or public opinion research, if I correct myself. But this research will also need some prior landing when someone asks me if I'm ready to comment on my beliefs and beliefs. But in a separate study, which I hope that even if we collect data within the census, we will know more. We will certainly find out, not only whether you are an atheist or not an atheist - or we will not answer two questions, as I suppose, in this case, we would, but we will be able to determine what an agnostic is, what an atheist is; what is one who is baptized, does not go to church - like me - and what is one who goes more to church, regardless of whether he is a believer - such as a scholar of good subscribers, as once was a church, at least in architectural and other ideas. In short, I just want to point out that there is another aspect. And if this is regulated in a legal way, then this nation can use it in a very useful way. Information may also be useful if it does not have the will or consent to be expressed. But it will be interesting, and in a sociological sense, I am sure to compare it to the one from 1991 or earlier. In short, we can treat it that way and I can see it that way, and only in this sense do I see it, without other fears and implications, as some other way to approach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u159	I thank Mrs Shirci for her help to get clear answers to the questions - from the government and the secretariat. I just gave up trying to get them. In the second part, when it comes to comparing all data with data which are at issue, I must say that I would respect Mrs Shirca's opinion if we did not have Article 41 of the Constitution. In the light of the second paragraph, I think that this debate is offensive, Mrs Shirca, to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Banovac to provide us with explanations, at least in terms of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u161	I think we have a different view of the Constitution all the time, of the right to declare ourselves, not only do we not have to declare ourselves, but above all that we understand differently Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act, which sets out - so we understand - that for statistical purposes we can collect data both directly and from administrative sources, for sensitive signs that we all know. Here is our problem, which is, in fact, that it is probably necessary then to say whether it is a legal law on the protection of personal data. However, this law has integrated all the sensitive signs of the Constitution - I am talking about my or my professional beliefs. It is true that in the beginning we had a problem interpreting the matter, but I would now like to talk about professional matters, because I think it is also necessary. It is clear that one sign has opened the problem, probably, of almost all the signs now. Two of them are sensitive, you figured that out, and they probably have two of the same regimes, so no one can force anyone. And I think that in the previous list - here we might have a little miscalculation of these columns - it was actually very indicative that people who are unknown in relation to religious affiliation, that 294,000 to 300,000, which means that people in the family, or those who have declared them, didn't know or didn't want to say anything about them. "He didn't want to answer," 82,000, which means, of course, that he might be faithful, but he doesn't want to answer. And of course, "not a believer", including 85,000. Of course, these things must not be summed up, these are different categories of answers. Another thing I think is important. Clearly, one thing has to be said. All public surveys carried out by our researchers are also based on sampling from the statistical office, and these samples are from censuses, from many more signs, because the sample must be representative. The representation is not that someone is chewing out phone numbers, but the representation is that the population responds. These samples are calculated very precisely and I think that - of course, we as the office then give only the name, last name and address, and no sign, because they no longer get this because these are personal signs, but these collected signs serve to make the pattern perfect. So if anyone thinks that there are public surveys without state statistics - maybe there is one that goes, I believe, but at least those that are being done by the Science Office, I think they're all going this way. Inta mass data collection is mainly due to the fact that something like this counts and that we have a structure for about ten years, that we properly understand the nation, the country and more, and that we then properly measure some phenomena. Well, now it's a question of the same sign. It must be said that, clearly, the purpose can or may be very different. It's a story that's very difficult. You must also make political decisions today. But I have to tell you one thing: the decision is probably not my own anymore, it is my personal third census and I will not be in the fourth; but the fourth census is supposed to be in this country from registers. There will be no national affiliation in the registers and there will be no religious affiliation and there will be no register of religious affiliation, as stated in the Personal Data Protection Act. These data will be de-individualised and corrected. And one more thing. At this time, for two years, what we had with the money problem with the law, of course, we also made some preparations that you rightly pointed out could happen, either suggestive or so. One of these very important decisions is, of course, that the descriptionrs will determine in this way, that is to say, that they will come from environments that are not indigenous, if I say so - because sometimes this can affect the family line, but not just because of this sign, it is also a property and other situation, sometimes it is difficult. The second point is that the education of our censusers will be significantly higher. Ten years of what is only independent, I think we are talking about students now and so on, also of course appropriate. In addition, they are in criminal liability, disciplinary responsibility against the office. And it is essential: on the basis of this debate - of course, if you define yourself like this - we will also greatly increase previous preparations to make people aware of their rights, which you are alerting through. We are of course - this is now an extremely big problem; an extremely big problem to explain, because in such a case, of course, someone else may be involved in such a matter. You know that from other lists. However, I hope that the political decision, which is likely to be yours, will also respond to this and that, whatever it is, there will be no more major problems so that the census does not have a full so-called problem. Everywhere in the world, when this is voted on, it can suddenly be almost common. And maybe one more thing. It is true that there may be a bit too much discussion about a group of believers that is dominant. We have, of course, the 1991 censuses, including the groups that were here at the time - and Islam such matters - that we will never actually evaluate again. But that, of course, is a professional question. And please, as I said in the opening reply: you will decide, in any case, probably, as the National Assembly decides - correctly. By definition. We are this attempt to prepare these two sensitive signs separately, and we have also made them. And once again, the statistical purpose is not recorded. The statistical purpose is not the tax purpose, the signs that are specifically marked as the register of dwellings will only go on. And perhaps in the end, it is clear that we also have legislation that parents are responsible for children. And in such a case, of course, he is also responsible for children under the age of 18. Even in some things that are written. Now, if there's anything else you need to answer, I think you'll ask. On some things, of course we can't because we're not in these - I mean, outside. [[...]] And maybe one more question or answer: clearly, I suppose that any believer who religiously declares that we would and will not ask him, is also a mistake, it would be a grammatical mistake, or you said, or you didn't say. And that's the kind of warning I think should be warned about. He probably knows his religion. And one more thing - we don't describe church membership. That's why some of these rubles and results are such that they are also, I think, about 12,000 people have declared to be believers, but they don't say what kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, then Mrs. Bitenc. Mrs. Maria Possonec for Mrs. Bitencheva. Mrs. Flowers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that the arguments today that speak for adopting the amendment to Article 5 proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy have convinced me. After all this discussion, it seems to me that this issue, as it is here today in the National Assembly, will be as manipulated as this debate is today and as interpreted as this debate is today. I would also like to express my surprise at the change in the position of Members of the Social Democratic Party. If memory does not deceive me, it was those who, together with the combined list at the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy who made the most clear warning that the issue was constitutionally controversial. Today, their representative, Mr Cukjat, expressed a completely different position. And if I'm allowed to, then in the end, given that the media, after this meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, would like to paraphrase what was in the media, and I would say that today we will remember as the day that SDS representatives realized that they were defending a liberal state, they would shake and return to their old ways.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u164	Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u165	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. A respected choir! Once again, I would like to clarify the essential position of the Secretariat. With regard to the whole case, it is not problematic to collect the data of a confession when providing the constitutional option or freedom provided by the second paragraph of Article 41 directly from the data subject. The problem is the second paragraph of Article 10, where, in our view, the Constitution requires the installation of a cauldron which will enable the exercise of this freedom in such cases, i.e. the indirect collection of this data. We believe that this can be done and that this must also be done if the assembly decides to collect such information at the time of the census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec has the word and then Mr Brace's replica. I'm sorry, I already gave the floor to Mrs. Maria Pozsonec, then you'll replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. As a member of the Nationality, I do not picture the census of the population in 2002 without asking about ethnicity. Thanks to the censuses of the previous decades, we have been able to follow the fate of the Trianod to date, which I must say is a rather sad story. I also believe that it will be valuable, as for the members of the country, as well as for the country, what was the fate of nationality in the first decade of democracy in the new Slovenia. The possibility is that statistics or declines in the number of nationalities can be an alarm in national policy planning. So I am determined to collect information on ethical affiliation in the census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Brace to Mrs. Cveto Zalokar Orazem
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Well, we in the parliamentary group had a position, as I said on the committee. In coordination with the Slovenian Coalition, however, we have also listened to other arguments and have come to the realization: if people were to force themselves to decide what religions are and, of course, to declare it, it would be unconstitutional. That says it's not working. Then what else do we have? The right to choose. It was clearly stated here that there would be no such coercion. It is necessary to give people the opportunity to speak freely about this, because we are in a democratic state. In the Social Democratic Party and, of course, in Novi Slovenije or in the Coalition of Slovenia, we have a clear understanding of the matter. Clearly, however, the matter is not entirely clear in the ruling coalition. And when the Dominique mayor, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, was already talking about the roads, let me put it this way. The parish is today or at present with LDS. Her attitude, and her speech, shows that she is still walking along the paths she had walked before.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it's time to close the debate and move on to a decision. That is, I am putting an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee to the decision-making process, it is said that this is the first amendment to the review. This is to delete paragraphs 4 and 5. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This means that the amendment to Article 8 is also irrelevant. We are now obliged to decide on another amendment, which is proposed by the Cimperman Janez, as of Article 5. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. In favour of 29 votes against 15. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the amendment under 2 was adopted. Amendment to Article 8. I apologize, we are obliged to vote on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 31 to 21. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. The amendment to Article 8 has become irrelevant. This brings us to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 9 and on the article as a whole, namely the draft amendment proposed by the Commissioner Janez. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u171	In view of the outcome of the vote on Article 5, given the Secretariat's warnings and views and what you have also warned your colleague Gaber and colleague Lavrinc, it was necessary to submit - if we want to dissuade any doubts about the constitutional dispute - a supplement to the existing second paragraph of Article 10 [[I'm talking about Article 8 of the novel.]] . I would therefore ask him to wait because the amendment has been tabled and should be decided on. This second paragraph is complemented by a new sentence - this is a point where it has been pointed out that no one can provide information on other persons absent, but above all on nationality and religion. And if we want the law to be legal from this point of view, because otherwise it is constitutionally controversial, and this is also clearly stated in the position of the Secretariat, this should be abolished in such a way that data on absent persons, on nationality and on religion can, of course, be collected if the absent persons so agree. This is absolutely necessary, but the law is in fact constitutionally controversial. And this has been highlighted several times today. So I'd like to ask for a recess or a five-minute recess so that Members get the proposed amendment to the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Only, if you want to explain, Mr Vukko, have presented the amendment orally and would like to be interrupted for five minutes to give it to us in writing on the bench, as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. In ten minutes, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly - because this is a rapid procedure - it is possible for the Member to submit a written proposal to the amendment. We'll continue our work at 5:40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u173	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're detecting a presence. There are 58 Members and Members present, which means that it is polite for you to check the alerts of your colleagues to see if the cards have been inserted by colleagues who are not present. [[...]] We're rediscovering presence. There are 45 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is inconclusive. The presence is determined another time. There are 48 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. To Article 8, the drafter, Mr Dušan Vukko, submitted an amendment to the debate and decision-making session, which reads as follows: "In the second paragraph of Article 10, a new second paragraph is added which reads as follows: 'Data on nationality and religion for absent persons of all ages may be transmitted at the same time as the submission of its written consent for the transmission of these data." Anybody want to talk? First Mr. Wolf, then Mr. Rokavec, Mr. Peterle and Mr. Gaber. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! I would only try once more to substantiate the proposed amendment. Given that the debate has already repeatedly highlighted and highlighted the constitutional dispute over the indirect collection of data on absent persons, this is one way to ensure that this law is clean and cannot be, at least in contravention of Article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As my colleague Lavrinc has already said in his debate, it has already been pointed out on the Committee that it is a personal right which, of course, cannot be available to everyone. Of course, as long as those who have been absent before agree that someone - I don't know, spouse or mother or father - does the data on the fact that, of course, from this point of view is not disputed. I didn't go through with this amendment. And on the one hand, I can understand the concern, and on the other hand, I can see that the gentlemen of the statistical office are giggling with their heads, but if we want to make this law right, then it is - in my opinion - necessary. In view of the fact that the amendment on the list of religions was also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Look, the problem is we don't have the text of this amendment in front of us. Indeed, we would like to examine the text of the amendment before the decision is taken in the parliamentary group. I expected that after the end of this break, which you in some way defined, we would get the text of this amendment and in fact, after one consultation we could find [[...]] [[Vice-President from the background: "He's coming, Mr. Rokavec."]] In a way, what is the content of this amendment? [[...]] Only then could we make a decision in some way, because I think it is a very important and sensitive topic. A topic that needs to be examined in some way from the point of view of constitutionality and in fact also to be incorporated into the census law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u177	Mr. Rokavec, this moment is the amendment to the bench. But we also read it, and Mr. Vukko gave an explanation. Mr Peterle applied next, and then Mr Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u178	Your Honor! I would like to hear the expert opinion of the representative or the Director of Uda for statistics because I am interested in the feasibility of a census under such conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Banovac, would you like to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u180	As I told you before, they didn't want to define themselves as a religious affiliation of about 300,000 or we don't have a sign because they weren't present and so on. In this census, which we are preparing, we will give to all those we will get home, that is to say, to those at home, but to all households - a census, which will also contain information, that is, an address from the register of the population. So they can get ready for this. But there will be problems with those who would like to describe, and they are abroad, and they will not be reached by this list. The law doesn't provide for that. Otherwise, I think that there are also special problems with those censuses, mainly due to other definitions. But in principle, I think it would be because of the doubts you've raised and that this solution might even be good if we don't trust each other like that. Of course, we will believe what is signed so that we do not get notary and similar notes, but I think this is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you. Actually, I have two questions. Firstly, I admit that I am not close to being able to make a statement on this subject on the subject of religion. That means empower someone to talk about it on your behalf. I ask whether, of course, we will also write down which confessions we are, the one we will authorize, whether he will, of course, do so as our representative. But that's probably a matter for the secretariat. The second, which I think is certainly more controversial - although it is first for me too - is this reduction in the need for authorisation on full-year-olds. I would recommend that you look at the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'm afraid that doing this after 14 years without the authority to name a child would be controversial. I don't know, it's not my profession, but I've been taught something in recent years on this subject, but I believe someone else's profession is. And I'm just warning you, at least we need to think about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf and then Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u184	I'd like to replicate to Mr. Rock. Of course I understand his concern. This amendment was merely a result of the fact that the amendment of the committee was not supported. It's just an attempt to make this law constitutionally corrected. And I don't understand now Mr Rokavac, of course, that in this - before that, we have a secretariat, and perhaps the representative of the secretariat has said her opinion, I don't see any other solution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I must say that I am a little surprised if I have correctly heard from Mr Banovac, if I have not, I apologize in advance for this question. However, I would ask: if I am not mistaken, we are adopting the law and your interpretation of this amendment was, "We will believe the one who tells us so." I don't know if this is a completely acceptable, legislatively acceptable matter for us to decide right now - I don't define myself now, but I would like to hear how this will be ensured. But probably the way, "we're going to trust someone who told us that someone told him something" is not the best marriage basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Banovac will explain, then Mr Rokavec and then Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u188	I myself understood the amendment so that these two signs will be sensitive, obtained on the basis of the written consent of the members of the household who are full-time, and - if they want of course, this is always: if they want to. So, if he doesn't want to, he won't sign it - it's simple and it's under the Family Relations Act, and for -- and now that's really a question; I mean for children under 18. There is such a law that this amendment of course dictates to parents if the child is not at home. These children are sometimes not at home, these are people who are also in boarding schools and so on. That's how I understand the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I apologize to Mr Wolf, if - for example - he so understood that he would oppose this addition, but nevertheless I think that this dictatorship is probably too incomplete and not clear. That is why, Madam President, I would ask that before the vote on this amendment you allow our Group of Members a half-hour of pause to study this dictatorship thoroughly. Not for the purpose of countering this, but primarily for the purpose of actually exploring all the options that have been said by the government's representative at the moment. But it's probably a little too perfect. And it can actually happen that there will be problems with the implementation itself again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Would the representative of the secretariat like to explain, on the basis of Dr. Gabra's question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u192	Yeah. Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A respected choir! As regards the special rights of children before age, they are established by individual laws and are applicable to those areas where they are determined. It is certainly necessary to assess whether this can be done in this law. Now, as I understand it, this amendment is written to an average and normal situation where parents are legal representatives of their children by the age of 18 following the Marriage and Family Relations Act. It is, of course, also in view of our Constitution, it is possible to think about allowing additional rights for children to take account of their maturity and, in particular, taking into account their maturity and their ability to judge these issues before they reach their full age. So the matter will then apply to the terms of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok wanted to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Look, with these fast-growing amendments, the National Assembly would probably be able to take time to think about what that means. Look, the census is already going to cost, I think, three billion dollars. I don't know how you proposers imagine how the scribes are going to do this. Even now it's hard to find someone in your family at home to sign off on this job to get all this information. So he'll come, he'll find someone at the house, and then he'll say, what is your answer to the question of religion, and where do you have the authority to speak for more, what do I know - the husband of the wife or the wife of the husband. She'll say we don't have that authority, you know, come back tomorrow. We want to make a statement, but we can't. I don't know if that's it or if this list is really going to run out of credibility, or if it's going to just make up the data itself, or if it's going to collect it, it's going to show you whether it's going to put it somewhere in the statistical office that it's going to be ready when the Constitutional Court judges if some people are already predicting this constitutional dispute and so on and so on. [[...]] I think so quickly, but really the National Assembly cannot decide on such amendments, because then we will really make this law technically impossible in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain, Mr. Sok. We only have three minutes left, so we are actually continuing the debate. Even colleagues who wish to discuss, given that we will stop working at 6 p.m. and we will not yet decide on this amendment, I expect Members to be able to identify themselves by tomorrow and be able to make quality decisions. I give my word to Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Sok, look. This is not even a mandatory information which a citizen must give. At least I hope that's how it's gonna be. But if it's gonna be like it was in 1991, then it's mandatory. Because in the actual performance it was like, "What religion did you confess? - This is what I personally experienced, I said no one that I'm an atheist. And she said, "Well, isn't there any Muslim religion closer to you?" I said, "No, I live in a Christian environment." Flow, two crosses, for me, for my wife and, of course, for everyone else in there. And then, when we broke up, the idea of asking the lady what kind of sign she made there even fell. But it's a matter of performance, and with that, let our office crack its head. That's one. Second. What's so big that you let your family know? The days then and then someone will visit you and you need to be present and, apart from those who are by the hospital, on a business trip and so on, they can give all their details to themselves. Otherwise, if you'll help me, by rejecting this amendment that my colleague Wolf gave me, I'll be almost grateful that I'll be able to write a request for constitutional review more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one else, I am closing the debate on Article 8 of the amendment, and we are also ending the debate today, so that we will not take a decision on the proposal of Mr Rokavac. The debate is closed. I hereby suspend the work of the National Assembly for today and let you know that tomorrow we will continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda and then continue, as the National Assembly has decided, with the second reading of the bill and beyond as decided by the National Assembly. Thank you so much for your attention and good night.
