ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u1	I respectfully invite them to join me in the meeting room. We will begin with the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. That's a nice spring greeting for everyone! I propose that we begin with the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I begin the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today our meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Dr. Jožef Bernik, Bogomir Vnučec, Victory Jelinčič, Saša Pece, Leopold Grošelj, Villa Trofenik and Miran Ptrč. Please, by inserting the cards into the voting devices, determine the presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence in the hall! There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I also invited a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I say hello to the Minister between us. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 26 April this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We are moving on to enlargement proposals. Does anyone have a proposal in this regard? I'm guessing there's no such proposal. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole! I shall put the draft agenda to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. So the National Assembly has adopted the agenda and we are moving on to 1. POINT OF THE DAY'S REFERENCE - REFERENCE OF THE DRAFT DECISION ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE SUPPORT LAW REFERENCE ON THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE HEALTH AND PROCESSED REFERENCE LAW WITH BIOMEDICINE AID. The request for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum was submitted to the assembly by a group of 34 Members with a first-signed colleague, Dr Frances Tsukati. I'm asking Dr. Sugar, does he want a word? Please. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u2	Your Honor! Good-bye. In fact, in the past days, this law has had quite a lot of debates and in some ways divided this assembly into two halves: one which has advocated an unshakable, inviolable right to motherhood, and the other half which has advocated the right of the child to both parenthood, to the circumstances which this half considered appropriate for the development of the child. It was actually a competition of two interests. Each of the two interests is legitimate and respectable. Both have not challenged the rights of the opposite party. Certainly, the referendum's proponents have never humiliated or in any way challenged the right, the desire or any way to evaluate the desire of single women after motherhood. At the forefront, however, we had a child’s interest because we thought it was first. We know from experience that even when a child is adopted, it is not the child’s desire in the first place, but the child’s interest to come into an appropriate family environment. Even if a child lives in a legitimate marriage in a regulated family under a regulated family law, it may be possible for a State to deprive a real parent of his or her right to parental rights, violence, exploitation, or any other form of child abuse. So even in such cases, the child’s interest is paramount. Of course, the second condition advocated the interest of a single woman after motherhood, the right to a child. And here in arguments, the opposite side, if I may say so, served strange parables. It was constantly talked about unhappy women who, because of their unfortunate childhood experiences, are unable to have normal sex, have some traumas from their youth, or are otherwise able to be physically handicapped and unable to obtain a partner, it was considered as if out of mercy to these women we would allow artificial fertilization of single fertile women. Since, of course, this has been repeatedly repeated in such a case, the explanation also refers to a mentally disturbed woman as the argument referred to in the provision or justification of such a procedure. However, since fertilization of a female female fertility is not a treatment, because, of course, medicine has also been involved, including medicine, in this procedure, because in some way a doctor would be forced to perform something, exercise and guarantee a right other than treatment, the right to one, as I said, with some feeling or recognition, compassion or any kind of mitigation of this mental disability. The medical profession was also formally asked for an opinion by the legislator. The Commission delivered this opinion for OBMP. The entire profession, as you know, the OBMP Commission, the State Commission on Medical Ethics, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society, all those involved, wanted and proposed, like the opposition, to calm down the "ball", to calm down this division that has emerged in the National Assembly, and let's go in at least another procedure for a regular procedure and start talking to the public again, and try to find a solution that will be suitable for all, not just for the ruling coalition. You have, of course, followed this path, along your way, ignored the profession, ignored the opposition, which, of course, could not have shown this opposition to the rapid process as if it had left the National Assembly. That didn't bother you. Unfortunately, of course, all we have left is a request for a referendum. This is the more expensive option, the more expensive one you've triggered. Actually, the bill should be addressed to you. It is not only a question of fertilisation, but, as the Minister of Health put it, it is an eminent political issue. When it comes to eminent political issues, evaluation, re-evaluation, putting the interests of someone before the interests of the child, changing values, it is indeed an eminent political issue. On such matters, allow me not to use the voting, I would say, a shameless unilateral vote of the National Assembly or the public and the profession. We want this referendum because it is a real political issue to ask voters to decide. For this is what we consider, the opposition, that we have not made the right decision. There are not enough 46 votes for such important issues or as many as there have been, a consensus is needed for such a question, because it is indeed a political issue. I hope that the referendum will be carried out as it is for a democratic country, that voters will be informed as they should be, and that they will indeed be able to decide as they actually do in a democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Dr. Cuckoo. The proposal for a decision on the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum was prepared by the committee responsible, the internal policy committee. You've passed it on the bench. Does the president want a word? He does. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. At the 8th extraordinary meeting held by the Committee today at 9 a.m., the Committee prepared a proposal for a decree. In a discussion which was partly rejected or touched on similar issues, as Mr Tsukati pointed out here on behalf of the applicants, concerning the adoption of the law itself, the Committee also discussed possible dates. It decided that the date of the invitation to tender would be 7 May, i.e. the day of the invitation to tender, when the deadlines for the execution of all the works begin and only the vote shall be taken on 17 June. The reason is simple, in Ljubljana, which is one of the largest or largest Slovenian city, there will be a referendum at the time. In addition, I must say that in the debate itself, it has also been said that unfortunately democracy around the world has not yet found a different way of regulating these matters for the adoption of laws than for the final vote. Therefore, the thought that this was any wrong course in preparing this law is out of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the Minister of Health, Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. As I know that we are today on formal issues and not substantive, let me just touch on some of the elements that Member Tsukati used in his argument as a candidate for the referendum. In fact, at some symbolic level, his phrase "allow fertilisation" is very significant or we cannot, I can hardly quote, "we cannot allow fertilization to certain segments in the population". The fundamental question of these two laws, if I may use the expression of an old and a new law, is whether the old law has violated or has not violated the right of citizens to a procedure brought about by science and introduced by the State. This country has introduced not only infertility treatment but also in fertilisation procedures with biomedical assistance. In this House, this procedure has already allowed fertile women to do so in the old law if they live in community with a man. Of course, it's not a cure. It makes sense that I personally support such a procedure. But the fundamental question is, if she allowed fertility procedures for healthy women, if they were married to an infertile man, the question is why she expelled single women. And, of course, the answer is, and this is the question, where, and here I want to be misquoted, the part of the medicine involved in this law has exceeded its scope of treatment, but of course it has legitimately been able to politicize the law, which I agree with. The profession can also politicise the law and find that the single parental law is so harmful that it must be prohibited and that the law prohibits the possibility of single women, even after a careful procedure before the commission and not in the sense of being interpreted by some, fertilization. Another story I would like to tell, although it will be the subject of a later discussion. The talk is about traumatized women, and it is implicitly indicated that these women, of course, are not capable of caring for children. I will not mention this because, of course, it will be a matter of pre-referendum debate, under what and other conditions children live in two-parent laws, but this will be the subject later. However, I just want to say that those cases that we have used by the advocates of this new law to avoid blinding the public, that the question of women with disabilities, women who are lesbians, does not obscure the fact that the phenomenon of a single woman and a single man in our society is not related to these, let us say, very rare extreme cases. It's socializing both with us and in the world. People study, live alone, report, look for a partner when they're 30. There's a bunch of single women in my profession. And these women are not going to be traumatized by the external appearance of disability, wondering if they can have a baby. This Parliament or the advocates of the referendum seem to believe that only if they provide a male natural breeder in any way. I'd only mention one more fact. At least by the Government's proposal, I would like to mention the fact that, according to some, the old law is unconstitutional, and this is at the point where it takes away the right without a clear explanation to a particular segment - that is to say, to single women. However, of course, it was logical - and you know this procedure better than I do - that the change of law is a faster procedure than the establishment of a constitutional court, which may prove itself in the future. Finally, the story of the right of children to two parents. In any case, it must be said that there is no evidence or that they will have to be presented in a debate followed by one-parents - that is, children living only with their mother - are so severely deprived that their potential mothers must be banned from their motherhood. This will only have to be proved if we want the profession to defend these views with professional arguments. If this proves to be true, let me repeat what I said a while ago in this House, that we will have to ask ourselves whether we will then ban divorces because it is so necessary to have a child, or that we will ban them until the age of a child, etc. I would point out that everyone does not really own their parents, as it is said that a child is not the treatment of a mother, that a child is a living being who can himself - and thank God that is so - responds to the challenges of the environment, that he himself matures, that he grows himself, and that he is exactly the adaptability of man to the environmental conditions of the one who has arranged for what he is. In spite of all of this, it grows in the vast majority of cases into a competent person who can continue to respond to the challenges of the environment. It is very difficult to defend, especially professionally, that such maturity requires two parents. The referendum issue is, of course, consistent, the procedure is consistent, the position of the procedure itself, it is logical that the government has no comments. However, I would like to join the wish of Commissioner Tsukati when he wishes that the notification at this time to the referendum would be correct. In explanation, in the very explanation of the referendum question, allow me to claim that there are untruths, falsifications, lies in it. This, of course, is partly a matter of fear, but I think that we can all, together with common efforts, those who are against it, and those who are in favour of being able to beat them in the truth with proper publicity, why the law is actually going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The views will now be presented by the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, a colleague of Anton Delak for the DeSUS Group, will speak first. Does any other group of Members want a word about this? [[Yeah.]] Please, Dr. Bayuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the New Slovenia unanimously and firmly support the request for a referendum. In all possible ways, even with obstruction, we have tried to prevent the adoption of such a controversial provision that would allow female female fertilisation because we are convinced that comprehensive child development requires both mother and father. It is the duty of the State to ensure in all areas that conditions allow for normal physical and mental development of children. We must be aware that, through human history, only rare social institutions have survived, of which the family is certainly one. Family is the base cell of every company. In the history of mankind, there has never been a social institution that could compete with the family. Apparently, the husband and wife’s community is best placed to ensure the full and successful development of their offspring. We are also aware that there are not always ideal conditions for children's rights and interests in the family, but a better way to develop the child comprehensively has not been discovered so far. The disputed legal provision is not supported by professional arguments, but is only adopted because of political domination in this national assembly. The positions advocated by Members of the New Slovenia unanimously support both the medical and legal profession and the ethical commission. We do not deny the individual the right to free choice of lifestyle, but everyone must take the consequences of his decisions with responsibility. Members of New Slovenia are aware that the possibility of artificial insemination of a single woman can only be the first stage in interfering with values that form the basis of Western civilization. We will not be surprised if, in the near future, this majority in the National Assembly will adopt laws on human genetic interventions, cloning, euthanasia and so on. This way of working in the National Assembly is strongly opposed because such issues should be dealt with in a thorough and sound manner throughout society, the conclusions of which should be adopted by a wider social consensus. The call for a referendum will certainly also contribute to better public awareness of these issues, which will raise awareness of these fundamental human issues. We have the feeling that the adoption of the disputed legal provision is a deterrent to the Slovenian public from the problems that lie before us and concern all of us. In particular, we are thinking of ensuring transparency of public and private finances, consistent control over the use of budgetary resources and control over the privatisation of state assets and the approximation of European Union standards. Some of the ruling coalition preferred to politicize the law on the treatment of infertility, thus blurring such and other problems from Slovenian society. We hope that the electoral beneficiaries of the referendum will also say the decisive "no" decision of the core of the great ruling coalition on the artificial insemination of single women. Members of New Slovenia have decided to place the right of a child to normal childhood before the right of a single woman to maternity without a male partnership. We have thoroughly presented our arguments for such a position during the legislative process, but we have won the argument of the power of the ruling coalition. We also feel responsible for still unborn citizens and to ensure as favourable psychological, social and material conditions as possible for their growth and development. For this reason, we are prepared to put our views before the broadest and only credible forum: electoral beneficiaries themselves, who will be able to express themselves directly, as this allows them and ensures our constitutional order, or give priority to the right of the child to parenthood or to the right of a single woman to motherhood. Their decisions will not be able to vote on the core of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Comrade Delak, you will present the views of the DeSUS Group of Members. After you, my colleague Barovic for the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable National Assembly! In our DeSUS Group, like all other Members, we have discussed the topic ahead of us today. Formally, we have no comments on the conclusions to be adopted here today. The legislation allows for a certain number of Members or a certain number of voters to sign a request and, in fact, the matter is already closed in some way. But, of course, in this case, we were encouraged to think: Will we demand a referendum in future practice for every smallest thing in Slovenia? Of course, today I have heard that this is a big issue of eminent importance, a political question, anything possible. But for us, I must say that this is not such a big question. None. Now, of course, there is a dilemma whether in Slovenia we will require a referendum in the future for every smallest thing. And, of course, we're just going from the referendum to the referendum. We have, of course, considered that the referendum, for example, when entering the European Community, would be suitable for electoral legislation, that the referendum would be appropriate when the state actually decides on some big things, but not of course on such details as actually only a minority of our people. Of course, if someone else is standing in the background, then that might be a big question. The second thing that comes to us is the question of costs. Of course, it was more like that with your left hand, yes, because it's a little more expensive. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, nothing is more expensive, that is 500 million. You do not think that this money would be saved and given perhaps for a hospital that we have talked so much about, to remedy the consequences, when we have talked about it again, perhaps for a student diet or maybe for scholarships. And, of course, I could also list that. I do not know if respected colleagues and fellow Members are aware of the costs actually incurred by such a referendum. Finally, of course, in our DeSUS Group, we thought about what such a referendum meant for the future. Before entering the European Community, man would expect us to propose such measures so that we can bring this Slovenian nation together as much as possible. In fact, this referendum means once again a division, again meaning that people will break into two parts, because it is not a question of this topic that we now have on the agenda, the question is that we also take advantage of another law. It's just that, of course, we're going to break down the Slovenians in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u11	Thank you, colleague Delak. Mr Barovic will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I'll be just out of my room, because I'll be very brief, I'll speak. Members of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group are among the signatories to the referendum. This means, of course, that we also acknowledge or support the call for a referendum. Many truths have been told today by Mr Minister, Dr. Keber's doctor, who prove that the discussions on the law are still open, show that the opinion of the public is still different, that the opinion of the profession is different. It is also a moral-ethic issue, which is not a question of politicisation, which is not a matter of this Parliament. However, what I have said proves that this law should go through the normal procedure in order to bring these opinions in line with the normal procedure, and the opinions of the professions, the public, not least after that political side, the opinion of the Members of this National Assembly. If that were the case, then the call for a referendum would not result in high costs for this country. And once again, I'd really like to warn everyone. We have in Rule 201 of the Rules of Procedure, which very precisely specifies which laws may or must be followed in a swift manner. Sometimes I feel that many, including this one, go beyond this 201st Article of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr Jelko Kacin has the floor, he will present the views of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, followed by his colleague Dr. Podobnik for the SLS+SKD Group Slovenian People's Party. Comrade Kacin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister of Health, distinguished representatives of the media! Today we are talking about an eminent political issue, so our debate cannot be different from political one. We have dealt with this many times, and we have adopted a law that we have found to be flawed. Therefore, we have made changes or additions in order to prevent discrimination imposed by the law that was in force until the amendments to the previous law were in force. What I think is appropriate right now is a comparison. I'm not going to talk about single women and married women, but I'm going to talk about Members and Members. Here in this Chamber we have single Members and single Members. And we have married Members and we have married Members. Those who are or are single are divided into two categories. Those who are still single and those who are single or single again. But this division is artificial. We are essentially dividing ourselves into Members and Members who have been elected to this State Assembly directly or indirectly. And then we can divide again into those who are here from the beginning, or they're substitutes. But this debate is irrelevant. We're here, it's 90 of us, we're Members. Also, Mr President, all three Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents are among them are equal. We women simply cannot divide into those who are sosame and those who are married. Such division is artificial and, at least as far as the founder is concerned, is unconstitutional. And we're the founders. I don't know if the story of this referendum is going to end. This initiative of yours is perfectly legitimate, you have enough signatures. But what has been happening in the past days and what is happening today is, of course, also bearing other messages and self - examinations. The question is how much this referendum will cost us. Those who can calculate have calculated that this referendum, or the costs to be incurred, could carry out 2,857 artificial fertilisation procedures. That's how much it's gonna cost us. The assessment of those who know the numbers speaks of a small number of women. But even if it were just one woman, she also has the right to artificial fertilization, if so, of course, decided. It therefore seems inappropriate for us to discuss today how the ruling coalition has put you in a referendum and that we are, of course, the drivers of the costs that will arise from the referendum. 34 signatories are signed under the initiative and these 34 signatories must also bear all the moral and other consequences of the implementation of their decision. I don't object to your decision. Once again, it is perfectly legitimate, but please tell me that you have requested it and that, of course, certain costs also come from this title. Don't push it around other people. The second is, of course, a follow-up. Mr Minister of Health has started a very healthy political debate. He was talking about facts, he was writing down facts. Therefore, I would like to see that in these months and weeks following the referendum it is possible to discuss without an emotional charge the facts and to enable all those concerned to identify themselves. It is not appropriate to discuss in the way we have already heard today, but who are the ones who cannot allow it? We have full-year-olds in this country. And full-year-olds will decide whether or not to. There's only two options, yes or no. Today, I heard a diction called, and I wrote it down, "Definitely not." It's not like that. It's just yes or no. Anyone who is 18 years of age or 18 years of age has the right to surround yes or no. Those who are not 18 years of age do not yet have these rights and opportunities, as stated in our constitution. However, it is no longer necessary to collect signatures, look at the signatures collected for the referendum initiative and you will see that there are peers who will soon be 12 years old. 12 years old children signed the referendum initiative. Whether it is constitutional or unconstitutional, I would not like to distribute it, but to force children into it is inappropriate and, of course, these children will not be able to decide on it either. What now awaits us in the coming weeks and months and months and months and a half, if we take the decision to hold our referendum rationally on 17 June this year, is a direct and reasoned debate. The dilemma we are dealing with today is this: Is the legislator, the true national assembly, in front of the public, walking before it, or is the cap for the public and is the public in front of it? The answer to this dilemma will be given after the referendum. But what I personally want is that as legislators we would always be in front of the public and have something to say to the public. But it's not that the public has always taught us that we have to go back. This referendum, which, for the first time in the history of this country, somehow coincides with the 10th anniversary of our independence, will, of course, allow us to answer the question of how far we have progressed in these ten years, how much we have not resented, if I say, advanced and how backward we are. What he said was a political definition. I didn't want to qualify positive, negative. What I'm talking about is that in the past, they've always been divided into pros and cons. We can also use other terminology, conservatives, liberals, whatever you want. This self - examination will soon show us how real this dilemma is and how artificial it is. The number of participants in the referendum will also tell us clearly whether these 34 signatures have been given in accordance with the majority will of the people or not. The referendum participation will also answer this question. I am deliberating because I am a co-signatory of the amendment or amendment of the law and will stand by this mandate until the end of this term so that there is no discrimination. Once again, we have previously positively discriminated against women who live in a marriage union with an infertile man. Women who do not live in community with men have been negatively discriminated against. And I will always defend solutions that will not prohibit, but will allow. Those rare women who have such dilemmas probably have legitimate reasons for doing so. They also have severe personal difficulties. However, in order to decide and apply for such an intervention and to convince that a specially established or appointed commission is involved, it takes a lot of determination and a great desire for motherhood. Of course, I'm the father of two children, but I can hardly imagine how a woman personally thinks about these things. That's why I want women to decide. Those who have to or do not want to become pregnant in their own way. In doing so, let the Commission grant them this wish or not. I do not want to judge this on my own, on whether to judge for this specifically appointed commission, which will be appointed here by the Minister of Health sitting behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Comrade John Sponik has the floor. He will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD Group, followed by counterpart Montenegro for the United List of Social Democrats. Please, Comrade Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. Our Group will support the resolution on the call for an ex-legislative referendum. Since today it is only on the agenda that the decision of the National Assembly to confirm or not, in accordance with the Constitution and the law in force, is only a matter of course, that there is no opportunity to re-examine the substantive debates that have been presented on this site in the preceding days. Since the seven Members of our Parliament, the seven Members of the SLS+SKD of the Slovenian People's Party were signatories to the request for this referendum, allow me a brief introduction. First, it is also necessary to tell the public that Slovenia has a very good law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance. The law is good. I'm also sure if we gave it to foreign professional institutions, they'd confirm it. This law, which I myself have adopted, and also in the group of previous joint parties, we have sought for it, came into force last year, after two years of hot debates. The profession also participated in this law. We also split up in Parliament on just one issue. It was that question that now divided us again. And right in the amendment, which is related to the possibility that female women who are fertile may be entitled to this right, we split up a year ago and the minimum majority did not support such a solution. However, the law already has a provision that the special commission, which is appointed, is not only professionally concerned with the procedures themselves, but also has the opportunity to propose any necessary amendments and amendments to the law itself. So if anywhere in this law, which has been in force since last year, has shown that the law is incomplete, ambiguous, incomplete, even constitutionally disputed, as we have heard, then this expert commission that works well has been appointed in accordance with the law, the one that could propose a change of law. That's the first one. Secondly, today's debate is political, it's professional, it's medical and legal, and it's also the one we can say and rarely talk about, it also has ethical elements. With regard to the policy of today's debate, is there only one question: Has the Group of 34 Members, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, properly submitted a request for a referendum? That's all that's a political issue today. Is the question clear? Is it reasoned? Has the working body prepared a good decision on the basis of which we will determine the date of the referendum invitation and even when all procedures for the referendum begin to run? This is a question related to today's session. Then, of course, the debate, which is professional, medical-ethical, legal, psychological, sociological and other. It is a question of how will we enable our citizens and citizens to have as quality a debate as possible in these poor 35, 40 days in which the electorate and the electorate can be convinced in their own way which solution is correct: Can we vote in favour of not having the law in force, or should we enter into force? In this place, I would like, not as an advocate, as one who signed the referendum, to reject the disqualifications of the referendum signatories. This is a constitutional right and an opportunity. Today, for the first time since we have a law on referendum and human initiative, the National Assembly has decided that we will establish a confirmatory referendum, so this is a constitutional and legal category. At this point, I would like to draw attention to Council of Europe resolution 1121, which discusses the instruments of citizens in the participation of citizens in representative democracy and speaks in a very short and very good way about all the elements when it holds a referendum. This resolution has a special provision which speaks of the duty here, states that, in time for the referendum, it will allow for as high-quality public debate as possible. The wish of our party and our Group of Members is that this public debate would be a dialogue to be professional in order to respect each other. Because the fact is that we are on this issue, which is by no means marginal, political or any other issue, but it is a very complex question, which has different dimensions, so that we do not go into the field of ideology, on the issue of cultural struggle and so on. Let's respect the diversity of views, but let's try in the right debates, they can also be fiery, so let's not be offensive, convince ourselves of one or the other solution. I'd like to draw attention to something else that's too little to point out. Slovenia has signed the Ovietic Convention. The Ovieth Convention is the first international ethical document prepared by the Bioethics Steering Committee at the Council of Europe. One of the guidelines of this Convention is also the following. The law should express the will of the people. When a society intends to regulate the issue, which also has ethical dimensions, in a new way, it is right and right if it also asks for public opinion. This is also one of the provisions of this Convention which Slovenia has signed. This is an additional argument for a moderate and professional debate. I would conclude with the conviction that if citizens and citizens decide at the referendum that this law will not enter into force, there is still a question before us concerning whether all the provisions of the current law are such that they are fully feasible, that there is no possibility that anyone would doubt their constitutional integrity. If this proves to be the case, then we will plead in this place if it is necessary to amend the law, that they are adopted on a regular basis, that they will include all the professional institutions in their amendment, and that then, in the context of the dialogue in the National Assembly, a solution will be adopted that will no longer be shared by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Colleague Silva Montenegro has the floor. It will present the position of the Group of Members of the United Nations, followed by its colleague Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Hello, Mr. Secretary of State. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats unanimously decided not to support the proposal for a decree. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats has already supported in the debate the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and artificial fertilisation procedures with biomedical assistance, since it enables all women to have artificial fertilisation, regardless of status, origin, condition, mentality and the like. Somehow we have achieved that this is a universal provision and that accessibility to all these medical achievements is equally universal. Therefore, the United Nations Group will not support the proposal for a decree on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures. The constitutional provision on gender equality before the law is clear, clear and clear and without remainder for the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. This is also one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and citizens. However, the proposal for this decree would severely restrict and distort this fundamental right, because we believe that, in this way and in this way, equal opportunities for all before the law and access to this right will be undermined. The Joint List Group believes that a constitutional provision will also be cut down, referring to the right to freely decide on the birth of children whose reception we have all received in this National Assembly. The Joint List Group regrets, however, that at the time of the entry into the third millennium, Slovenian policy - that is to say you, Members of State and Members of State - to women on this sensitive issue are unable or unable to provide at least such opportunities and rights as have been guaranteed in the past, at least three years ago. In the Joint List Group, we rightly ask whether it is rational for such large and last but not least necessary resources to be used at the referendum to lose the opportunity to build some gyms or dozens of playgrounds for children, to turn their basic right to stay in this beautiful, beautiful world. Therefore, once again, in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will not support this motion for a decree for this very reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Comrade Battelli!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. It may be unusual for someone to hear from me as a parliamentary group on this issue. The fact is, in all these days, many people have asked me to say, however, that it is wise to oppose the proposal for a referendum on this subject. In particular, this is why I bear the view of people, because they believe that it is statistically so irrelevant, even though we know that this is a very deep issue, it is completely reckless to use so much energy and also the means to keep the whole country out of the referendum. They also addressed me because they knew that I had been involved in the drafting of the Constitution and that there had been a lot of speech and controversy about Article 55. What is worrying, I think, is the following for the initiators for the referendum. Such a provision of the law, which enables the artificial insemination of a single woman, actually means that a woman’s sexuality is out of control. The proposals cannot bear this; they see this as a threat to the basic system of values on which they are entrenched, I don't know, for example, the modern world. It's a typical masquilist look. They cannot bear that what they consider to be their right to control men's control over women's sex is not protected and defined by law. And that's what I find absolutely controversial. This is why I will not support this proposal either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the opportunity to present the views of the Group of Members. We are moving on to debates between Members and Members. A colleague named Danica Simščič applied for the floor. I don't have any other written applications. Comrade Rupar, anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] The rest of my colleagues, Merlo, I'm going to limit the discussion to five minutes. [[...]] The discussion also took place by Comrade Spokonik. Please, colleague Simšičov.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Minister of Health, distinguished other representatives and representatives of the government and the public! In the debate on this issue, which we have in our judgment today, if we go completely formally on the letter and on the provisions of the law on referendum and human initiative, it is, of course, necessary to say that, at the request of 30 Members, the National Assembly is obliged to call a referendum. That's absolutely true. It goes on to say that this request must clearly express the referendum issue, so that this requirement must be justified. That's what he's holding. I wonder, however, whether Article 16 of this Act also holds, where it is stated that, if the Council of State considers that the content of the request for a referendum is contrary to the Constitution, it may require the Constitutional Court to be judged. It is thus recorded in the first paragraph of this Article 16. And actually, I want to discuss this. Personally, this is a very strong question to me, because I believe that the content, as it is set, can be questionable from a constitutional point of view, because it discriminates against people, puts them in an unequal position, even more so, determines the labelling of individuals who say they are mentally disturbed. This is one question that I am actually asking both to our secretariat and to the Minister if you will consider it necessary to answer, especially the Minister, because in his opening statement he himself said that in this proposal and in the request for a referendum of sorts, I quote the ministers' words, "untruths, falsifications and lies," the end of the statement. I would like to say that I found at least two of them myself, in addition to the one that I have already highlighted and in which the first-signed Dr. Tsukati wanted to avoid this disqualification of single women who wanted to gain the opportunity to become pregnant by means of biomedical fertilization, by saying that those who advocated the autonomy of a woman were mentally disturbed women. I would hope that none of us have used it, but perhaps some others have certainly used it. Nor have we talked about unhappy women, even less so that these unhappy women need mercy and compassion. No, these women simply need equal opportunities to ensure equal rights. Absolutely no mercy and no sympathy. Given that it is, of course, an eminent political question, that Dr. Cukjat said that it is also a possibility of changing values, I also ask the question, but it is personal to me; whether the actual value is the question that we have to put at the referendum, and whether the values are those that we order and prescribe by law, whether the values are something else - what in society at dawn for years and decades. And this value, the right of women's autonomy, has been built over the past decades and has been in force for 20, 23 years, as we have already said. Last year's only step was taken for about a quarter of a century back in history. And that this is an eminent political issue in terms of the position of a woman in this society. And if, at the beginning of the third millennium, we want to put things into perspective by putting a woman in another environment and starting to take her rights, even though only at a symbolic level, then I would hope to raise a dilemma: are we really the kind of society that we are proclaiming as an advanced democratic society? And one more thing. I hope that all the signatories and signatories, 34 names and surnames under this request for a referendum, did not know exactly what they were signing. I hope so. And I'll tell you why. Because in this document under which the first-signed Dr. Tsukati has been subjected to a manifest abuse of the international convention to which it refers. This was the abuse of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 20 November 1989. So you know what I'm talking about. On the other side of this explanation is written. I'm saying. "In 1989, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which, among other things, states - and here the first-signed quotes: 'Child', followed by the text released and the text 'has the right to know his parents and to take care of them'. And they're rounding up that this is the first paragraph of Article 7. And whoever took the original convention into their hands can read "baby" in the first paragraph of Article 7 and all that follows "has the right to know their parents and to take care of them". The huge difference is that the right has an absolute and right, which is in the "opportunity" dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that it is not a simple matter and that when we decide in this country to ask a question for a referendum, I think that the content of the justification and the explanation must also be subject to such an opinion and that, in such a explanation, at least the abuse of an international document should not be if such indications - in my opinion, of course, disqualification - about mentally disturbed women. And another one, I'll tell the flower to either sneak up on the proposer or write it down consciously. And here's where I get the questions. When he wrote that assuming a child’s interest in having a loving mother is certainly an even greater interest in having a loving father. That's true equality, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u23	Thank you, colleague Simsich. My colleague Rupar has the floor. A replica? My friend Tuck, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u24	I'd only give one short replica. In addition to this Convention, many conventions speak of the possibility that a child may have this and this right if possible. Surely, if possible, my father died - so he died to me when I was a year and a half old, and no one could give me that right anymore. However, the State must not take this option away from the child in advance. That's what this is about, my dear fellow! Look. There is also talk of unconstitutionality that this proposal for a law on constitutionality is questionable itself. The legal service, which you have received, has told us that in the event of the adoption of this novel, it is a matter of non-constitutionality, a violation of constitutional rights with regard to a child who will be born in a full, single or extra-marital community, and a child who will be deprived of the right of paternity in advance. That was asked as a question. If the law is adopted, the constitutional rights of this child will be violated. That was true.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Member Rupar has the floor. Replica, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Let me just give my opinion on these conventions. It seems to me, in itself, that this convention was written for situations that are common and where children have - and even then not forever, just because of the fate of death - two parents: mother and father. Artificially fertilizing, insemination with the seeds of an unknown donor, even a couple, even if it's a couple, doesn't make it possible to know their father. There's no other way in a couple. Therefore, I would like only, and I agree with Mrs Simšič, in this case it is not possible to simply transpose the provision of this law, which speaks of the vast majority of cases of children born in sexual relations and of men and women in the case of a case that has been introduced in the last decade and for which, believe me, these conventions will certainly continue to be rectified in the relevant places in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Member Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself felt obliged to return to that question. In particular, because I have had a series of debates, a series of debates on this subject, from the date of adoption of this law to today. Even a few articles were worth reading. It seems to me that it is good and necessary for some in this Chamber to decide to give our consent or signature to the opening of this referendum. It seems to us that there have been many different opinions from this period since the adoption of the law, and also because we have estimated that more than half of the Slovenians are still in favour of respecting the basics of each society, that is family. I am sorry that the opponents of the referendum, but also, I will say, those who, in my opinion, have accepted the senseless novelty of this law, that you spoke of the family as the basic self-government cell, as the base cell of every society at a time when you had a much larger and stronger hand and more, I will say, aggressive policy towards it. Now you forget about the meaning of the family. Many times in these debates there are words of equal opportunity, equality for all. I am curious whether, on this side of the Constitution, all single men who want to have a child are equal, even adopted, that they will not again understand that I demand that a man wears or has an inborn womb. So it is exclusively and only an ideological way and an ideology, it is that, as mentioned in a series of articles in the newspapers, it proves that Slovenia in this, I will say, a campaign of incredible liberalism proves that the family is no longer what it was, that there is no more family, I will say, something that is traditional and, of course, it is about proving the supremacy of the power of the ruling coalition, with the exception of, I must stress this, over tradition or so-called - as one of today's speakers has said - over traditional ways or conservative ways of life. So it is only and exclusively an ideological supremacy and the destruction of this in Slovenian space. Unfortunately, this is proved not only by the words of the speakers but also by the influence these parties have on the media. I cannot pass the event that happened on April 19th, that is, the day you adopted this law, on Radio Slovenia at 6 p.m., where, in other words, the tone of that leader gives you to read something with force, but she said that the parties were, I don't know, Nova Slovenije, Youth and so forth firmly against the treatment of fertile women for the procedure that was just envisaged. So it's the distorted information that you put in public, so no one in this national council objected. Of course, it's about single women who have, as you said, resistance to men and so on. This is, of course, a family issue and a question of other addresses. Well, and how can we also talk about single women who want a child who want to fertilize themselves, but who, terribly, hate men or somehow, as one of the journalists wrote, will quote, "especially the primary fear of natural inseminations, these hairy males from rock caves who are afraid to take away their primary mission." Every woman, listen, can get her sperm spikes, so there's no need to import and so on. So it's about ways to manipulate the public and it's about misinterpretation. Our country or this Parliament should in any way do what most citizens expect. This is for children to have both parents, fathers, and mothers, or mothers, and fathers. It's simple interpretation, it's child rearing. I will never claim that women who are divorced and have children do not take good care of the upbringing of these children. In any case, however, it is much more difficult than it is in orderly families where both parents are involved in this training. Therefore, loading the burden on single women with this possibility that without a partner, mothers can be, in fact, unfair to these women. Personally, I believe that the National Assembly and all those who are called upon to do so should take the initiative to give birth to as many children as possible in the regulated families of mothers, that the family is still what it was, and that both parents care for these children. Unfortunately, in Slovenia the family no longer has on average two children, but less. This, of course, is due to this development or to this social thought that a child is too expensive, that a child has become a commodity that is bought, just like a salad: where it is more expensive, we do not buy it. And it's a shame that we made sense and that we don't stimulate a larger birth in orderly families. So, there's something else I'd like to warn you about the media. Slovenia has several magazines and several newspapers on the subject of the family, on the subject of children and family, even newspapers are often called family newspapers, and I will not talk about Jan’s magazine, from which I quoted a part of the article earlier. It goes, once again, easy to destroy a family. I am sorry that terminology has been used, which today has also been heard that we are some conservatives, that you are other liberals, and at the same time that it is a backward and advanced power. I personally very much doubt that this adopted law will lead to the progress of the family, the progress of this country. Personally, I think this may be the first step towards releasing all possible attempts that medicine can do, but I will not just say cloning now. I am also concerned that sooner or later, or in the shortest time, even because of - I will say - free voting or no reflection, or rather, just to beat someone, that we will soon vote on euthanasia. This, of course, is fear and, of course, needs to be given much thought in this direction, if such liberal laws are not so - I will say - free-thinking laws have already begun to enact more drastic or more such laws as I have mentioned them. Finally, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, let me also touch on the entirely ideological way of interpreting their votes against the referendum, that someone in this Chamber will start their implementation with the costs that will arise at the referendum, asking who will bear or whether the signatories must bear all the responsibility in the cost, political and moral work for this referendum, I think interpretation without the right argument. So those of you who said this ran out of ideas about the content itself or the very procedures allowed by the law. Why, whenever a referendum initiative arose, this was essential and the first issue was also in the media - not content itself, not the possibility of a referendum, with the constitution and with the laws that set up the referendum, we give the electorate and the electorate. So it's ideology and deception. I am sorry that, in the event that they were the initiators of the referendum from a liberal - I will say - a united retirement party, that at the time no one asked how much it costs, but in the past there were quite a few initiatives, I remember, around some forest returns, etc. So that's when the scheming goes on, it starts when it's necessary, and then you pull this thing out on a day-to-day basis. 34 Members, who have given our consent to the referendum, have just as many per cent of the voters as we are here. Therefore it is not by any means any will of these 34, you can also call us individuals, although this is a very nice number, it is simply the will of the people who have chosen us and these people say, "We want a referendum and do this". And that's what we're gonna do. All the legitimate and legal rights of these voters are to do so on their behalf. I want the referendum or the initiative to be voted on and that people will also be declared in the referendum in any way, but with all right. The fear of that, Sirs, is completely exaggerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Before I give my word to my colleague Merl, colleagues Jakič, Yuri, Kacin, Podobnik applied for the replicas. My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, I would like to replicate to my forerunner, namely, I would like to draw attention to some of the inaccuracies, irregularities that he cited. First of all, I would like to point out that I would like, at least in this national assembly, if we cannot reach beyond being offensive to no one, and in this case not to women. That's a first. Secondly, Comrade Rupar, it's really a difference. I don't know why the Social Democratic Party advocates that the basic cell of society is a family that is not in the world, because social democracy does not do this, but is closer to liberal groups that say that, of course, the basic cell of an individual society is, of course, an individual and of course its rights and freedoms. And that is why, of course, I wanted to tell my colleague Rupar what he has done with the term liberal several times, that of course it is not a question of liberality, but it is a question of liberality. And of course in this case I feel like a member of a liberal party and a liberal, but in this case I feel more of a liberal. And if you go to the dictionary, you'll see that it's a man who's a freethinker, which means a man who doesn't recognize dogs, especially religious ones. And in this case, Mr. Rupar, in this case, I do not recognize your fascist-showist dogmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u31	I propose that we do not let Members and Members in our performances qualify the performances of other Members and Members so that we do not qualify them with positions, but that we do our views on this subject without these. Comrade Yuri now has the floor, followed by colleague Kacin, Podobnik and colleague Rupar. These are colleagues who have replicas in front of you, Comrade Rupar, and you will get the word as soon as the list is exhausted. My friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u32	It's a very short replica to my colleague, Rupar. I'm not afraid of the referendum. Of course, I also defend the right of a healthy, single woman to motherhood. And I think the referendum will also vote on such a majority opinion. However, I must reject, of course, the findings of my colleague Rupar at the expense of this camp regarding some disrespectful attitude towards the family. If I belong to this camp, I would like to inform my colleague Rupar that it is for the May holidays that 25 years and 3 months have passed in a happy, fruitful family, of course, and I believe that such relations will continue to be completed. By doing so, I show my respect for my family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Kacin has the floor, followed by Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to object to my colleague, Rupar, who, like himself, is a Goran MEP. This is because he spoke in his opening remarks about the period from the adoption of the law to today. And if I understood him correctly, but I'm not sure that I understood him correctly, because we are not all so much alike here that everyone understands the thoughts and words of others, a lot of people have turned to me in relation to the adopted law, so somehow it was heard. I would therefore like to say that I am the co-proposer of this law, that I have run in two districts, but that I have not received one letter, a call, an electronic message or anything like that in all this time. Apparently, we're not all the same, we're discriminated against. Those who have done something leave us alone and some harass us. Well, but what I've come to the attention of, above all, is the debate of the esteemed colleague Rupar, who is talking about the costs, about some who are beginning to raise the issue of costs. Comrade Rupar, since you have been here since the beginning, you have made it possible to conclude, you can read a magnetogram of a respected colleague from your party, Dr. Tsukjati, who spoke in the introduction about the costs. He's the one who opened the cost debate. And if you don't think this debate is legitimate, that's your business. It is a little surprising, however, that within your parliamentary group you do not agree before and during the debate. I would never resort to comparisons as to how many artificial fertilisations could be carried out at the price of these 400 million Slovenian tolls, as far as the cost of the referendum is concerned, taking into account the indexation from the last referendum to today, if it had not been called upon by the proposer. Dr. Tsukati spoke about this as a proposal for today's decision on the call for a referendum. In your debate, you were talking about "buying children like salad" -- quote, I wrote down your thought. I don't know where it's done. It's not possible to get a baby by buying. A child needs to be brought and given birth, and this is something else entirely. I am a man, but I find it unfair to a minority of Members who are sitting here with us to talk about this act, which requires not only fertilization, but carrying, bringing and giving birth, as a one-time purchase of salad. Excuse me; this is offensive, especially to children who are dedicated to all of yours and also to your personal discussion. It allows for the possibility that some comparisons are not understood, as I would not like someone to compare children with food, with consumer material. But you, my friend, have used such a comparison, and I am personally offended by such a comparison, and I believe that there is someone else here in this room. So I object to your debate, and I ask you that when it comes to your replica, you try to conclude this part of the debate, so that we don't go one more round deeper towards Dante's Hell, because the debate you're initiating is always taking us down in these circles. Dear fellow former Minister, I apologize, the former Minister of Culture and former Ambassador to Paris has translated Petrarca, Dante's Hell into French and Slovenian. Maybe it's worth reading sometime. When we do this sort of thing, it's really hard to go back up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. First, he has a replica of colleague Podobnik, behind him a colleague of Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I would like to briefly replicate my colleague, Rupar, in three of his statements. She was the first to mention in his performance "the opponents of the referendum". I hope there's been a misunderstanding. I've also seen the performance of the esteemed colleague of Montenegro before. The National Assembly must call for a follow-up referendum later in seven days and make a request for a referendum. Today we do not decide: yes or no, today we will just determine whether the issue is correct, clearly. If the Secretariat finds that the whole question is clear - and it is a follow-up or confirmation referendum, it is understandable that if you ask whether you are in favour of the law entering into force, then the issue cannot be contrary to the Constitution. So I hope that there will be no misunderstanding, but today the National Assembly will most likely show such democratic will that it will, in accordance with Article 22 of the current Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, call for a follow-up referendum. This dilemma is not that it would not appear as if we were deciding whether or not to call for an ex-post referendum if all the conditions for it to be signed are and I believe it are. That's what the secretariat thinks. The second question is, the second topic that Rupar spoke about is the ideology of the subject itself. Our task force, personally, will not agree to this trap. If we redirect the debate to an ideological area, then we will quickly begin to interfere with the fascists, etc., as was the case with one of our colleagues when it came to it. Let us be Members and Members so wise and cultivated, and also here, when we perform, do not quote those writings - I saw my colleague Rupar, when he had in his hand a copy of an article written by a famous Slovenian political week, and I will not quote it here - negative, offensive, ideologically oriented, with a marked negative charge the evaluated subject here to re-examine, you simply give a tone to such a discussion. You will not hear such debates on our part. Slovenia and our citizens and citizens deserve to receive professional, even sensitive, even ethically justified but cultural debates on this issue by this time of the referendum. We will do so and invite all present Members and Members here to do so. However, we expect that civil society, particularly professional associations, will follow this, which is the most pitiful element of any civil society. And the third question, when my colleague Rupar - here just wants to add to or explain it - is to mention the ruling coalition and then turn to our parliamentary group as one of those exceptions. This issue, when this referendum is called for, is not a matter of government coalition: opposition. For the SLS+SKD The Slovenian People's Party, as a government party, has decided, after careful consideration, not to take part in the final decision, at the time of the adoption of the law. Then we made it clear why we did so. In particular, we have stressed that in the last period of the last month, in recent weeks, in the procedure itself, through the expert opinions of the various associations, there have been so many reasoned proposals that there is a regular procedure that this was one of the reasons why the proposed legislation could be followed up on this proposal - this was our first argument. Others, however, touched on ethical levels, and there we said that when certain issues, which are also related to the human world or to its ethical conduct, of course, become of secondary importance to coalition treaties. This is respected by all the democratic countries of this world, and that is why the seven Members have also signed this request for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My colleague, Rupar, his colleague, Potter, and his colleague, Peterle. These are replicas, and then he gets the word of his friend Merlo for the show. Yours is not a replica, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President, once again for your word. I am aware that the action gives birth to a reaction and, of course, the call for a referendum, and this question is only a reaction to action. This is the adoption of your marriage. So much for that. Mr. Jakič, I am very sorry personally if, after my implementation as a fascist and chauvinist, I am allowing your full liberal thinking, but please, if you are correct, because I think that, on my part, you have not received such a low blow on your performance or in the previous thread of your current mandate and, of course, I expect your apology. I was talking, of course, about the family as the base cell and would, I wouldn't argue, but I asked if you could read my performance again. The other thing is Mr. Kacin's replica. He probably would have recommended several times, not just reading some literature, but perhaps also some Member’s execution so that he would not have to rush into everything. Well, I was certainly talking about the baby and the salad, but I'm going to explain again in what sense. It's a shame, because today, in families, parents think about a child just and so on -- I'll say -- from material possibilities. In families in Slovenia, because we are such a society, we are seduced or where we are, parents about the child and about the birth of children always and mostly look through money. Everyone wants a baby, they have one, they have two families, and in the third, most people wonder what the cost is. So a child in a family is no longer the fruit of love, and a child in a family is no longer a desire, but the possibility is that, depending on the financial or social situation, the family may or may not have it. That's why I said that, unfortunately, we don't look at a child as a natural gift anymore, as joy in families, as what should be born, it's like life as a new life, but only and very often from the material possibilities that families have. And that's very similar to when we decide to buy a car, buy an apartment, buy an apartment, I'll say, even if you want, salad. I hope my interpretation has been clearer now. You can, of course, take Kacin again or take the right not to understand me. However, I hope that most people understood my comparison of children and salads, including journalists who laughed several times at Kacin's performance. Not to misinterpret every thing. Every word, even spoken, is not merely malicious. And it is not just any opposition to your liberal - or I don't know what links you still have - to your thinking, but also to your personal opinion, you can also think of a group that turns to voters. That's all. Mr. Kacin, I'm sorry that in a rather large number of votes you've received, people don't turn to you anymore. I'm sorry. I think your ratings dropped with that. That's evidence. There are, of course, people who are still turning to some and who also want to communicate their opinions through Members. Finally, there have been many articles since the adoption of the law. And, of course, I strongly recommend that you open and read a newspaper every day, Jelko Kacin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, do you want a replica or a show? You will be given the floor as soon as you are finished by your colleague Potrate and colleague Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The legitimacy of the call for a subsequent legislative referendum signed by two Members and 32 Members cannot be contested. The proposed referendum question is also raised clearly and we also concluded a consensus on the date on the home working body. After all, I have proved this position by voting on the Internal Policy Committee. Now for the other thing. In some debates it was possible to hear that time from the call for a referendum would have to be spent on a patient debate until the referendum itself. Here, however, I am asked a slightly more explicit question as to whether it can be counted on a patient debate and a respectful attitude towards different views, if it is possible to read in the explanation for the subsequent marriage referendum that normal conditions for the development of the child's personality and quality childhood can only be provided to a child in a two-parent family. If I link this to the fact that we haven't found another family model than parenting; it's another model - a single parent family. I do not see why this model would be so harmful to a child if article 54 of the Constitution provides children born out of wedlock with the same rights as children born in it. Finally, I am also asked this question in connection with Article 14 of the Constitution, which guarantees equality before the law regardless of the circumstances. I believe that such a situation may also be a woman’s decision to live her life in a single - parent family with her child. In doing so, I would like to stress another point that also casts a shadow on the tolerance or unpredictability of the patient debate in the future. Two views, which are set out here as highly exclusive positions, share those who advocate the rights of women or the right to freely decide on the birth of children - that is one group; and another group where those who represent the interests of children - these are medical professions, legal professions and international conventions. What, then, is needed to read this as if a woman who chooses to take care of her child irrespective of the social context, is irresponsible and does not protect her child’s rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My friend Jakich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. The replica will, of course, go to my colleague, Rupar. My colleague Rupar, when I said he was a freethinking man who didn't recognize dogs, and in that case he didn't recognize fascist-shoes, I'd say our friend Ivo Praise, that someone in there recognized himself. But I'm not gonna talk about it. When I spoke of chauvinism, I had in mind, of course, all the signatories under the request that Dr. Tsukati spoke about as on behalf of the candidates. Chauvinism is for me, of course, when it turned out that a man wants absolute control over a woman and also her sexuality, which Roberto Battelli was talking about, so of course I applauded him. When I spoke of fascism or fascist dogma, of course, I had in mind - here my colleague Gaber corrected me - totalitarianism or the narrowness of the spirit. The narrowness of the spirit, of course, was also discussed by Dr. Cukjat when he spoke of mentally disturbed women, whom, at least as I understood them, needed to be excluded from society. That this is, of course, fascism, totalitarianism, or narrowness of spirit, is bound by abortions, lunatics who had to travel up and down the Rhine, and were, of course, excluded from society. Fascism, totalitarianism and narrowness of spirit are, of course, also for me to talk about first-class and second-class children. I'm sure, Dr. Knockout, you've successfully survived your childhood. And I also believe that, of course, all children born in a single - parent marriage cannot be judged in advance that their childhood will not be nice and good. So, if I conclude: colleague Rupar, leave people the freedom of choice. And that, of course, is a liberal or free-thinking attitude.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Did you want a replica, Comrade Jerovšek? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Jerovšek, then Comrade Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I responded to the replica when Mrs Pótrata, our colleague, pleaded and wondered whether there would be a place for a patient debate until the referendum. In fact, unfortunately, it has happened that it is extremely patient - and I think that the well-founded - debates, which have also cited in some parts some of the professions, that the proponents and today's discussers or signatories of this referendum initiative have encountered absolute disqualification. My colleague Jakič came here the longest, and I really hoped that he would apologize to his colleague Rupar because his words really did not have a dance or a trifle of what he described him for. And I am afraid that the referendum will actually be about these divisions, which I have pointed out last time in my debate, is that it is exclusively the political objective of the law to share the Slovenian people. And unfortunately, in his opening remarks, the Minister also mentioned that there are many untruths, falsifications, lies in explanation of this initiative. I'd ask him to be open enough to explain it to us. In fact, I can see that a scenario has been made trying to get rid of this explanation. I don't know why. Is what the United Nations Convention says not true? Is what is said in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Nations not true? Are the untruths what the ethical ethics commission has given and we can read in the media? Is it not true what the Slovenian Medical Society wrote down? Are these not trues, lies? Then tell these forums that these forums have been profoundly wronged to work against humanity, against the family other I know what and that they are falsehoods, lies and falsifications. I'd really like this to end. In fact, the mistrust of sitting here in this place is completely irresponsible to me. Today would really be a place for a patient debate. And all those who signed and performed were extremely patient. He's very patient, and they've come upon a frontal attack. I don't know why. Why do Slovenians need to be divided, and these divisions need to be accelerated! Please, I hope that Mr Minister will be so correct that he will not continue with what he has somehow started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Before we proceed, the word first comes from Comrade Bevk, followed by Comrade Rokavec, then by Dr. Keber - Minister. I appeal to all of us to refrain in our statements from any statement that the opponent or the opposite party might otherwise consider to be an offensive statement. I don't think that's necessary, it's flying on all of us. My friend Bevk has a word behind him, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Earlier, Dr Podobnik, a fellow Member, commented on the position of the Group of Members, but I think there was a misunderstanding on both sides. Indeed, it is clear that the Joint List Group will support the decree, because we have nothing against the referendum, but other issues are, of course, emerging. And, of course, we are in favour of implementing the law that we adopted days ago in the National Assembly, so that there will be no misunderstanding this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You had a replica of your buddy Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. A brief replica of Mr Jakić, a respected fellow Member. Indeed, I must say, Mr Jakič, that you, as I, one of the signatories, as well as others, have been offended by the interpretation of the word that we are chauvinistic, because in some way we have made it possible to apply the Constitution, by applying the law on referendum and human initiative, the possibility for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on the dilemmas that have arisen in this law and it is probably necessary to ask yourself, in some way, why you have also asked yourself, in some way, why the confidence you received in the elections has been used, when the debate was held, when the first reading was open to many professional issues and dilemmas; in addition, the secretariat's comments on the legislation that it is a matter of constitutionally controversial solutions, that you do not have the confidence and power you have as a liberal democracy, to stop and give the opportunity to make regular treatment, the second and third reading of this law, which are all committed to the law. I think that the key question is whether in some way the trust given to you by voters is being used usefully and when dilemmas are a little halted and in some way there is time for a thorough analysis of the open issues, or whether all these arguments that have been given are ignored and only want to be exposed to their right or position. I also think that the question of this referendum is how to make the right use of voter confidence in democratic institutions, as is our political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u49	We have three who have applied for a replica of the speakers who have participated in the debate so far. First he will get the word of Dr. Keber, then the representative of the secretariat, then colleague Anderlich. For a word, then there will be Comrade Merlo, colleague Sponik and colleague Peterle. First, a colleague or a minister. Dr. Keber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for the opportunity to the honourable Member to explain exactly what I meant by the words I said. Yes, the interpretation under point one can be described as purely false, evident by the debates in Parliament and, of course, evident in the law that has been adopted. Indeed, this interpretation says that the two main positions that they represent - let me say here - were the bill-makers and the government. So the Ministry of Health. On the contrary, there is the absolute right of a single, fertile and mentally disturbed woman to artificial insemination, without regard to the circumstances in which the child is to be born and lived, and is represented by the Ministry of Health. This is, of course, an untruth, but by the way, a lie. In this regard, I would even like to ask myself, because I probably do not have this right as a member of the government, I would ask myself: firstly, I suppose this is the first confirmatory referendum in this decade to ask, irrespective of the logic that we will have a referendum and that this question is not disputed, but that the referendum question may be accompanied by an unrealistic and evident non-true statement. I would only suggest that this part of the statement should change because the interpretation of the legislator and of the one who proposed is certainly not so. Only the fact that there is a commission to verify the eligibility of the request means that an action can be refused and that the right to do so is not absolute. The rest of what I say, what I say -- pretending, doubles, etc., I'd say. With regard to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have already heard twice the reasons and I do not think I need to repeat it. In the position of the Medical Chamber, allow me to read what it says in the proposal itself. It states that the law should be withdrawn from further consideration and then made possible a public debate to prepare a new proposal, etc. There is no position here to oppose the current law, at least I don't know it. Another time. I will not explain what a majority vote in the Chamber or a majority vote in a medical society means. But what I'm trying to say is that these are cases when you get -- or, for example, all the legal profession. I would like to know how the motioners can interpret the point of quoting Ambassador Bajuk, who said, "all legal profession". This is supposed to be my explanation and, of course, it is also possible to call on Parliament's leadership to consider whether it is going to a referendum with such an explanation, which is not sufficient for the formal principle of reality. Since I'm speaking, that's all I'm going to say. The thesis is that this is about family. Family will survive because there are heterosexual relationships, there is love, there is all that, and there is no doubt about it. And this marriage doesn't talk about family. This law speaks only of a minority who have not created a family. This is a law that responds to great dilemmas, but for a minority, and therefore it would be correct, it would be right to talk about this minority, but not yes, I will say, falsely again - and in this case I indirectly use this saying - we use great stories about breaking the family. Family, because I believe in the relationship between two sexes and love, this family is not threatened, not by this law, and not by a lot of other people.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. First the secretary, Mrs Bitenčev, then colleague Anderlič, Partljič, Jakič and Kelemina in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would just like to point out more or less the need for a precise statement of the Secretariat's comments, as put forward in the legislative procedure during the adoption of this law. I'd like to point out the following. From the point of view of its tasks, the secretariat felt obliged to draw this assembly's attention to the situation that would arise with the use of the appropriate ones, I will say, biomedical assistance measures in fertilising the height and height of the child to be conceived in this way. We have explicitly warned that he is looking at, I will say, the usual conception of this child deprived - legally - for the father. We have talked about inequality, but we have also written down at the end that it is necessary to consider whether there are such strong reasons in favour of the proposed regulation that they consider these aspects of the inequality of so born children. I would like to say that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment, will say that certain inequalities also take into account the possibility of creating different situations. It's the next one. If there are strong reasons for creating different situations from another situation, the Constitutional Court makes such differences, which, of course, in the final stage cause certain inequalities, of course, it allows, but it is necessary to have valid and factual reasons for such creations. We've only been alerted to this circumstance. So we didn't go to a direct assessment that such a creation would be contrary to the constitution. We also did not - what I say here - say or find that the law in force, according to our estimates, cannot be indisputably argued that it is contrary to the Constitution, we have also made an argument, so that we have actually distanced ourselves from - I will say - assessing the constitutionality of these issues, because we believe that these are very complex problems. And besides, there's no jurisdiction in the Constitutional Court about that now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich has a word first. He's been followed by a fellow Partlych.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u54	When I listened to Mr Cuckati, I thought that it was not necessary for me to believe and that it was only his conviction that I knew: it is hard, it is unwavering and only recognizes his view of certain things, and apparently other citizens, he does not recognize citizens' right to be different. But that is, as a result of a real knowledge of his ideological definition, it is perfectly clear to me. And I accept that. Of course, when I listen to you further and listen to the teachings of Mr Rokavac, from Mr Rupar, Jerovsk and others, it is an improper exercise of voter confidence. Yes, Mr. Rokavec, what is the proper use of voter confidence? That you're going to tell me how to act in Parliament? And what should I support, what should I think? And it's this redesigned logic that you come from that has led us to actually be here today, at least I'm going to be appalled to hear how someone should, how someone shouldn't do something in this country under this constitution, under these laws and so on. But he can only do what I say - in this case you and you like - and you do not recognize different rights. Make the right use of voter confidence! Mr Rokavec, this is a statement that can really concern anyone sitting in Parliament. I don't mind if you ideologically impatiently put things to other people's minds, to those who are also susceptible to other solutions, which are the professions of science that civilisation has brought about by democracy. I confess, of course, that you can swear on the values of the 19th century. And swear on them. Not to teach me what I can and can't teach. So, of course, on my part, I already said this on Thursday, the question of how it was properly put, but all that was heard today was talking about that we, by some force, by some quick procedure and so on, forced something on you. No, dear gentlemen, because only gentlemen have spoken on this side of you so far, because ladies obviously have nothing to say about it, because it is your domain to say how you will deal with these issues. I already said on Thursday that I have absolute confidence that the right is on your side when it comes to a request for a referendum. And I do, if I didn't feel the insults I hear from the Rockman and others, that they would deny me that I'm thinking with my head and that the confidence of the electorate is acting as I think it's right. He's giving me all the right of the constitution, and I'm sure he wouldn't have called. But to talk about if I admit to you what I think is democratic, that you have raised the question correctly and that from this point of view there is little chance of voting differently, even though I think they are. Above all, this question could be examined. Then, of course, you must also allow the procedure for the adoption of this law to be completely corrected. Even if you have left this meeting hall because democracy is such that whoever wants and has something to say participates in the debate and finally votes. The one with one vote of majority won that vote. It is common hypocrisy to talk about that if there was a normal procedure and I don't know what, but of course there would be unification, etc. That's not true. It's not possible in dogmatics. We have a job, at least in the last 10 years, I remember the debate on Article 55 and everyone else, and it hasn't changed even by a millimeter. I respect that because everyone has the right to think what they want. Deception or manipulation of untruths, and I am surprised here to the secretariat that he did not warn, and of course also to the home committee that he did not point out what Mr Keber was talking about. You can't go to a referendum with false information, deception and imaginary things. The explanation is an integral part of the proposal, which is indeed yes, yes, of course, because only by reasoning do you justify what you really wanted to achieve. [[...]] If you say that you are in favor of this law, and you say so, it cannot, in our opinion, apply because the advocates of the law claim this and that which is in point 1. It's manipulation and it's not professional, not procedural, I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Partich! There's a fellow Jakich behind you. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u56	It was already spoken here with a different vocabulary, from a substantive to a few political reasons or interpretations of the proposal, to a legal rumor, political rumours, professional and, of course, to blows under the belt. Don't mind me, I'll speak in person, but whatever happens. Maybe someone's gonna cynically say it's reaching into the heart. But I have to say that I didn't mean to come to the phone and I'm kind of emotionalally upset. I am the son of a mother who is now 80 years old, who was the illegitimate daughter of a miller in 1917. You can imagine the social situation of the mother. She tells me that once in the city of Ptuj, Mom showed over one man, and she says, "You know Micika, that's your dad." But since he had one woman under his hood, when her mother wanted to run away, she wouldn't let her go to whoever she thought was her father. Years ago, when she was 70, she said to me, "You know, Tonk, what's gonna be the worst thing in the world? I will die, and I will never know who my father is." With this, I want to tell you that I know more than enough about this feeling of family and the need for a father, and I am a father and a grandfather myself, and I am doing it my best and even my best. My husband may be getting worse. When I read, not Cankar's blasphemy about hypocrisy, but the finder they found, no one wanted to be in the whole Shenthflorian valley, not his father, not his mother. When I read Prezhich's Meta, my first job was at Pohorje Ribnica. As you may or may not know, some certainly were there before the war, priest Joza Lampret, who was then in XIV. Division, you see him in the picture when he wears Kajuha, and he wrote in 1938 in Kocbek's Act on Social Affairs and I don't know what kind of farm Ribnica on Pohorje, where he wrote that at least, at some point, every other, or every fourth child, born in this farra, is illegal. Because the landowners have a blanket around them, and they have in a model family, with which they always kneel at the top on Sundays in the church, and piled under their armpits, even with girls and diaries, a whole range of children. And that was long before such communism. That's why I find your reasoning in one segment, not in all, hypocritical. Seems hypocritical. Alone, I think, you know all about these problems. Secondly, the doctor, Mr. Minister, warned me if I was leaving my mother. It was much harder for her to know that she was her father somewhere, but she can't go looking for him, and her mother didn't betray her father until her death, than the one who said when she was born, I won't say what name, accept it, you don't have a father. This child is deprived, but his heart wound, I guarantee you, is smaller than the one I'm talking about right now. So in these things I don't want to get a lot of publicity, because they're over it, it's not the ideology of the thing as it was said. I hope that the policy will go in this direction to less ideologies and talk about such things. The options for the incorrect discussion, Jože, were already in the beginning. The gentleman started by causing costs to the state, because perhaps, Mr Bayuk has mentioned, I don't argue, otherwise I don't want it to be a game in the back, that we don't want someone to control our budget, and we made it up. Do you find this way of discussing these painful issues really relevant? I think we're going to find a common language in some way, but I know things are getting too much to work with them with our sleeves wrapped and we're going to hit the left-hand side. Justice is absolute for the referendum, and I will support it, and the thing is to take time. It also pains me that in this debate I have heard as one of the greatest threats to this country's freedom of thought. But if we're going to be free, and there's going to be more, I don't know what kind of laws. I've always wanted to live in a country where I could think freely.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Comrade Partich. A colleague, Jakič, followed by a colleague of Kelemina, has the floor. These are still all replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Thank you, for your word. It's really hard for fellow Participants to talk because most things just say in another way, in my opinion, closer to all of us. But despite all that, he's replicating a fellow Rokavac who's been talking about a key issue or a dilemma that's supposed to be cleared up. I'll be very brief. I am sure that the thing is that I personally believe that, of course, every woman needs to be allowed freedom of choice to fertilize with biomedical aid, but of course, colleague Rokavec has an exception here. And we can't get together here. Because if we could unite, then Comrade Rokavec would always talk only about fertilization with biomedical aid for those who are infertile and married. And we are, and this is what the Minister made very clear in the last discussion when we had that, of course, we crossed one line. And this limit was when we decided that we could also help married couples, where a woman is fertile, to help her with biomedical help. That's what we've come up with in the policy field. And when we step into the policy field, of course, we react on the basis of some of our ideological beliefs. In fact, my personal ideological belief is that every woman needs to be given the opportunity to do so. It's a woman's thing, of course, whether she does it or not. And you're making a difference. Why do you agree with a solution that says that fertile women in marriage are justifiable and that fertile women who are not married are not justified? Arguments, I've never seen an argument before, except for those who speak of first and second-class children. First and second-class kids. You're talking about children who grew up with one parent being disabled in some way. That's not true. Then serve me with an argument, serve me with an argument, not with an argument that my colleague Partljič spoke about. Dr. Bayuk, I wrote it down. He wrote: "I hope that voters will say decisive not because of the fact, because this law blurs out the issue of the lack of transparency of the state budget." Please! This is not an argument in this discussion. Tell me, argue to me that this does not violate women's rights. And when you prove to me that women's rights are not violated, I will also vote in favour of the referendum. And I think women's rights are being violated if you let some women do something and others don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My colleague Kelemin has a word behind him, Mr Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In fact, if I evaluate it this way - of course, by my logic - there was certainly no need for much debate today. But I don't want to join in on this, this unnecessaryness and the inappropriateness. I hope that I will not be offensive, although there has been a lot of insult from certain individual discussions, including on my behalf as one of the co-signers. I would, of course, also ask procedurally whether the Minister has the right to replicas. I don't think so. Secondly, I also ask what role the Minister is playing here today: whether in the role of the government, as a representative of the government, or on his behalf. From his debate constantly, so today on the committee, I am somehow trying to understand, and also today, to discuss in my own name and on behalf of liberal democracy. Such discussions as he had today are also offensive to the National Assembly and also to the signatories to this proposal. I don't think I should have allowed that. There must also be some order here in the National Assembly. I would therefore ask you to continue to respect the will of the National Assembly and that the National Assembly will be the body to decide whether or not a matter is appropriate. You cannot make that decision, but you can, of course, if the National Assembly allows you to do so, give the opinion of the government, which you are also a representative of. That's my personal opinion. There has been a lot of talk here too - I must say this - yes - of course I have replicated to the Minister, especially on his implementation earlier and every time he comes to the phone - but regardless, I would also, given that you are talking about the violation of women's rights and that we do not like women, etc. Personally, I can tell you that I am firmly convinced that we have great respect and love for women in our Group of Members. Without them, there is no life on this earth. We're aware of that. That's why we're going to do everything we can to make them have more rights than we have men - that's a fact. We treat them more than equally. But there is always a question of what Mr. Minister has always advocated - unilaterally certain things and, of course, in liberal democracy and in the rest of the coalition, you have already unilaterally defended only the things that have answered you. On the other hand, maybe we're defending some things that only fit us. All that Mr. Minister has said and others can, under certain circumstances, hold or fail to hold. Do you understand? One woman, single - and you may have reasoned in your debates in the adoption of the law that a single woman who hates men or who does not want sex or who has a negative relationship with men does not want a man has the right to have a child. Well, I ask myself now whether all these women are capable of raising a child that will be acceptable in this society, which will also respect gender equality and so on. I wonder if that's true. You have highlighted this in the previous debate. Now, if you've made a mistake in these discussions and you've been defending the wrong things, then admit it, and then apologize, say, we didn't mean it like that, but we were just saying it. That's a fact. Of course, such a woman can also raise a better citizen and a better man than any other family. These are relative things, and we can't say on some abstract matter what I know, it's the only holy thing, so it's possible. No, society is very plastic, very diverse, and there are millions of things happening in it, and we can't say that it's one and the same, one and holy, just one thing and the other it's not. Ask my children, because I'm probably a bad father for them, because I don't have time for them, because I deal with all the other things, but ask them if they're ready to go away or if they don't see me or if they don't know I exist. Ask them, and I'm a bad father, probably. At least that's how I judge myself because I don't have time for them. Anyway, they're gonna say no, but we don't want to be without you. Yeah, that's right. That's right. You understand. And these are some of the values in people, in all of us that we are just defending and leaving us this right, that even if you have expressed your power, with your voting machine you have expressed this power, that you have voted our arguments, let us also enforce our arguments, and that we are trying to present our Slovenians, Slovenes, citizens, people, to judge whether it is just as you have decided, or whether it is just as we think it is. Give this freedom to all of us and let this dialogue be truly maintained at some respectful level. You always defend the fact that we can't complain. Please, we give you the glove in the most beautiful sense, and you accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. In answer to your question, colleague Kelemin, let me say that the government's representatives have already participated in the discussions, including with the replicas. The Rules of Procedure do not limit this option. In the beginning, I welcomed Dr. Kebra, Minister of Health, as a representative of the government, and therefore also the views of the government, unless he explicitly says that some position is his own, which he has already done today. My colleague Tsukati has a word first, followed by his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Your Honor! There would be a few replicas for the performance of the Minister. I'd only mention one where we're told that under the first point, we've listed lies, lies and again lies. Mr Minister, the Secretariat for Law warned that the legal issues of the consequences of paternity were not resolved in this law and that the question of a child so born with the help of the State would be determined by the State, provided for, provided for, and that this issue would not be resolved by reference to a child born, for example, in an extra-marital community, a different starting point, a better starting point. The same questions of children's rights were raised by the OBMP Commission. The State Commission on Medical Ethics also spoke with great determination and with many explanations of reference to the Conventions. The same questions or points of reference were based on the opinion of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society. And what happened to those opinions? The opinion of the secretariat, to which we have warned in the debate, has not been answered, you have passed it, you have not answered it. You haven't answered these questions, you can review the magnetogram. To the question of how the profession advocates children's rights, you have answered that they go beyond their profession, of course, and that they are at the level of civil society, whether you respect them or not. We don't have a single starting point or any evidence that you've been defending your children's rights as well. Unfortunately, we have this impression from all of your performances and from all the debates. We get the impression that there are two poles here that are different advocates, one side, the other side. It's okay if you do. Then we need another court to evaluate both lawyers, both agents, their speeches. Let's make this public. Let's make this a referendum. Why not? I think that's a fair approach. Of course, I would be happy if, during a public debate, which will certainly also be of interest in this pre-referendum period, you would certainly have the opportunity to explain many times that you would deny our opinion, which is written in the first paragraph, and that you would also show the interest of protecting children's rights there.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek now has the floor, followed by Comrade Rokavec. Procedural? Please! Excuse me, Comrade Jerovšek! I didn't realize this was a procedural proposal. You're ahead of the replica. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's no big deal, but my intervention is just for these reasons, because I think that the matter on the agenda of today's extraordinary session has gone a whole other way than it should have been. We have before us a decree on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, etc., for which a guide sent us a secretariat, which in his paragraphs wrote down what all this decree must contain, so that we can finally conclude that the referendum will be signed. We have come out of this today and are talking back about the content of a law that is not the subject of today's debate. We are not talking at all about the things the Secretariat has warned us about or given us a guide, which should be considered and perhaps two or three fellow Members, more like colleagues, have pointed us to the content of the decree to be discussed. The Secretariat notes in the first, second, paragraph of compliance, then in the third, that the matter is clearly explained, perhaps there is already a story to be considered that is not clear. At the time when we wrote it down, for example - this time I say for example - are you in favour of implementing the law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance adopted in the State Assembly on this and that. Just on the basis of the explanation behind, we can see that people will not even know what they will vote on to be manipulated. Now I don't exist to anyone. Again, the secretariat says to find out whether all the Members who signed the initiative are still insisting on considering what they have signed, and it is true that we are asking people whether they will also fertilize women who are mentally disturbed, etc. Let's try to find out what we're going to ask if we're even going to know if we're going to ask or if people are going to understand, and if this is the subject of this content that we're going to find out, the Internal Policy Committee has also said that it's okay, I doubt that it's okay, if it's possible to write it down differently and that it can run properly. Expecting very low participation, and at this low participation, people will not know what we are asking them. So, let me finish. In the framework of your options, Mr President, if you are able to put the matter back on this track, which requires us to talk about the decision, the correctness of its content and, of course, the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u65	Before the meeting, I consulted on whether any substantive debate on the law could be limited from the Chair's seat. This is not possible, since the explanations and introductory findings of the applicants may be either praise or objection. Thus, of course, it is not possible to make an exception in order to allow the applicant, in his explanation and oral presentation, to intervene in the content of the law, while other members and Members would not have this option. There is therefore no other option than that we do not discuss substantive issues on this request. We all know, and I would like to remind you once again that 34 signatories are sufficient from the point of view of the constitutional quorum for this decree to be signed. Of course, it is understandable that both of them want to explain their views about him. You must therefore understand and respect, fellow Members and fellow Members, that, apart from the calls that we, as President, are obliged to make to avoid unnecessary or even offensive statements in the debate, it is not possible to substantively limit the debate. Comrade Jerovšek now has the floor, followed by Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Keber, who has responded to my call to explain what lies and lies are not true, has been extremely pale despite his unquestionably rhetorical abilities and his logic in this answer. However, I must also say that he continued to be offensive to the signatories to this referendum initiative. Indeed, this "absolute right" relationship, as far as it makes sense to me, refers to the fact that those who advocated did not say that this right does not depend on the circumstances in which the child will be raised. And that's probably true. The arguments for this and such discussions have also been here today. I think that Mrs Črnugljeva and in the last paragraph Mr Jakič also defended absolute rights. In fact, it was based on the fact that this was based on the Constitution, that it was a constitutional right. And that's how I perceive your opinion. If this is a constitutional right, then the right is absolute. Constitutional rights can only be restricted by law. Then justice is absolute. However, let people think otherwise that other Members think otherwise. He's in the field now, in 14 days, I haven't been able to get into the content at all, a lot of concerns. And they're justified. See, even such thinkers or columnists, who consider themselves super modern, in their performances, have concerns. If I mention only Dr. Stern, who listed one thing that is very close to me. I'm not going to go so far into moral-ethic, but because I know something about chemistry and genetics, he also made one dilemma. If there's an abuse, it'll come to Incest in the second knee. And that's a very serious consequence that can. Very serious. They'll marry their brothers and sisters if there's any abuse. So there can be abuse, I'm really afraid. Mr Merlo said the last time he said in the debate - but I didn't want to replicate - that if we don't adopt this law, people will carry the money out. Is there only money here a criterion? Then, if that is the way women think, the consequences, then some count on it to serve, not to solve women’s problems, but to serve. I don't think the proponents have written anything, not harshly, not because this absolute right applies, you all think that it's not that important. Given the manner in which children will be brought up, this woman's right is absolute, and I'm spying on her, if that's what you think. Just don't insult us that somewhere else, some of us who signed ourselves aren't really so sure about this. I would really ask the Minister to distance himself from these graves, these very harsh allegations and these very harsh discredits of the signatories. I have listened to the Minister in the explanations of this law three times or three times - once in the parliamentary group, on the other hand, on the side of Del and the parable of the unfortunate Martha, and the third time here in the explanation where he said that the law had been annulled. Today we see that this law is not broken. At the time, I pleaded to withdraw the law because I then said that the law, which the whole profession, practically the whole profession, the more profession, the rejecter, could not be overthrown. But there was no response at the time, no response. Today we have what we have. I hope from now on we'll be smart, let's not get into low blows anymore. Here you have to admit that in defense of your positions you have used low blows and I beg you, I plead for this to end and that we go, we sign a referendum. Obviously this is a very important question, and people look at it very differently. Most of the time, however, I firmly believe that there are opinions that there is no need to play with natural laws. In fact, BSE, the crazy cows are the result of the cannibalism we have imposed on animals. Let us not impose certain things that have not yet been proven in science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. A colleague of Rokavec gave up the discussion, or replica. Madam Secretary Bitenchev wants a word. Then for orientation by type of colleague Sok, Shirca, Simšič, Anderlič and Dr Keber. Excuse me? [[A voice from behind.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Excuse me, are those still replicas?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u69	These are still replicas and the discussions are then reported. May I take this opportunity and ask everyone who is still in line to limit it, as far as possible, only for objection or for clarification. Please, Mrs. Beatenchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. A respected choir! I just want to give a certain additional explanation. Article 34 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative provides that a referendum shall be published in public, on the basis of which a referendum shall then be held, only for an act on the invitation to tender and for the text of the act to be decided at the referendum. Therefore, the requirement itself is only the basis for the national assembly to define the text of the referendum tender act and, as such, it is not, I will say, in a formal sense, the basis for deciding on the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, behind him is Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, honourable fellow Members and Members! I'll try to be very brief. But I'd like to replicate some of the pronouns. Look, when I left Ormož today for the meeting of this extraordinary session of Parliament, I actually thought that the meeting would be very short, that it would be for two things. It is said that the parliamentary majority has passed laws, adopted amendments and amendments to the law by means of a rapid procedure. As opposition Members, we have taken advantage of this opportunity through the referendum, have collected 34 signatures and demand that a subsequent legislative referendum be signed and that the citizens at this referendum give their opinion on this amended bill. Everything we've talked about here today has already been said. There's nothing new. I'm sure we just can't convince you, you obviously can't convince us. So, there is only one fact left, and this is the last word the Slovenian voters have to say about this. We are really involved in substantive discussions or even more. I have learned from some Members here today, given that I am one of the signatories, that I have taken advantage of this legal possibility, that I am a fascist, a totalitarian, that I am even spiritually narrow, that I want to control the sexuality of women, that I am dogmatic and I do not know what else. So, all those words were said here today. But I wonder why. So, personally, I wouldn't want to hurt anyone. You just did what you did. And we also want to do what the law and the Constitution allow us to do right now. That's all it's about and nothing else. This session could be over for me today. That's what I told my wife and daughter that I took with me. I said we'd go to Arborettum after this is over. And we're going here, we're going to do the same thing, and we're going to have plenty of time to tell the voters. We only have 34 votes, you have a lot more, 56 votes, but I still feel like you're afraid of this referendum. I don't know why either. It's about money and all that, of course, it costs. We could think about this together when we adopted this law. I would not like to be the lawyer of the president of our party, Dr. Bayuk, who presented the position of our parliamentary group. I must say, however, that I am deeply disturbed by the fact that some Members take sentences out of context and then chew them like chewing gum. So in his opening statement, Dr Bayuk said that public attention is being diverted from more important topics because of such and similar laws and he mentioned public finances, the budget and these matters in this context. So maybe it would be a lot better if we listened to each other more. If we could listen to each other and respect each other much more. Let me get this straight. But I am also disturbed by the Minister's intervention in this debate. I think that from the debate to the debate it is becoming less credible and that this will also have its own reflection and influence in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u73	I must explain once again that it does not interfere with the Minister's debate, nor does the content of the debate conflict with the Rules of Procedure. The applicant had an introductory explanation and was also of a substantive nature. I have no options in the Rules of Procedure to take that possibility from him in the opening statement. When he presented his views, they had the right to explain their views to all other Members and Members. So the debate is absolutely legitimate in this respect, it is not possible to limit it, except when it is offensive to someone and we have done so. My colleague, Shirca, now has the floor for her, colleague Simšičeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Your Honor! Not only today, but also lately, I am extremely concerned about the attitude that this National Assembly has, increasingly, has on the issue of women's issues, women's equality, which are already so impatient when it comes to very, very symbolic moves such as, say, the use of both sexes in the Slovenian legislative dictatorship. The intolerance in this regard is worrying, not only because it is being implemented in a sufficiently underestimated way when it comes to the whores that were last quoted, inappropriate for today and for the moment. But I am also concerned about the dictions that are being used, not only in today's debate, but mainly in the explanation that we have also drawn attention to on the Internal Policy Committee. The minister walked completely sovereignly, like everyone else, through a dictatorship that we still think is controversial. In fact, the first-signature acknowledged today that we would be demanting the first point, that we would deny the first point in the next hearing or in the future debate before the referendum itself, but not now, as was the case, not after the decision of the committed party, on the Internal Policy Committee or, as has been repeatedly asked today, whether claims that do not hold back or that are very relative can be corrected. Because, according to my assessment of the text, which I have interpreted with great scepticism and, of course, with great sadness, I believe that we are addressing the Slovenian people with a question that is not really being asked, whether you are in favour of the adoption or approval of the law that was adopted recently, but is turning or using a dictatorship that speaks of dealing with some rights that have been allocated to disturbed women, to women who are fertile but who are without a partner, so they are bizarre, perverse, they are harmful, they are inappropriate, they are unattractive and they are undesirable. These women, of course, are also egotistical and overly. There are women who don't give if I change the rather clever and very savory explanation of my colleague Battelli, who do not offer pleasure and who require pleasure only for themselves and who turn pleasure into a right they substitute for pleasure in motherhood. Above all, they take delight in another. Certainly, as has already been said, today Mr Partljič rightly quoted passages and early childhood from Slovenian literature. I also remember you on this occasion a passage from one of the Slovenian works dealing with people who were self-governing. It means they grew up alone with their mother. This week we buried a lady who said that in a way that still happened to us, even after so many views, a knot in our throat. She was talking about being beaten on behalf of the ground and on behalf of the cross. So two, I'll say, ideological or material backgrounds. She was beaten because she had and herself raised children who were proud, who were pieces of course grounders, but certainly, as she had concluded in one last frame, then multiplied and confidently marched on from seven to two million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. Before the break, they'll get a word for the replica to three other colleagues and a colleague, then there'll be a break. This will also close the list of those who applied for the replica, and Dr. Merlo will finally be able to perform. This will first take the floor for the replica of colleague Simšič, colleague Anderlič and finally the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking again for a simple reason, in fact, because a number of fellow Members of Parliament, including Member Rokavec, Rupar, Jerovšek and some others, whom I did not exactly write, asked what substantive concerns we have about the explanation and what is wrongly written in there. In fact, if I speak very directly and very simplisticly, there is almost everything written wrong. I will explain and call once again, Mr President, if possible, for a clear answer also to either the Secretariat or you, or for the State Assembly to decide on the basis of data and views that are not in line with the truth. I think I've drafted the address correctly enough that's not in line with the truth. And if we're gonna do it right again. In the case of both formulated positions, which, according to all the signatories and the first-signed Dr. Tsukjati, divides this assembly into two groups, the Minister has already stated what is not true. It is not true that we represent some of the absolute right of a female male fertile and mentally disturbed woman to artificial fertilization, regardless of the circumstances in which the child is to be born and to live. And here under the line, this law and other laws do not define whether a child is to be born under circumstances and under what circumstances and conditions. I think that this goes far beyond the rights defined in the Constitution as fundamental human rights. The second group to be formed is the group that represents the interests of the child, the medical profession, the legal profession and the international conventions. It's not true again. We have advocated and highlighted the interests of children by a number of Members and Members of Parliament, members of different parties and members of parliamentary groups, and not only those who are among the signatories. That's the first one. And secondly, the international convention was abused by those who wrote this explanation. Once again, in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed or adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations and quoted here, you have distorted the content of the communication. And you wrote, "The child has the right to know his parents and to take care of him." That's what you wrote. This is what all Members and all Members of Parliament have received. While Article 7 of this Convention, which you are quoting, states that the child has the right to know, if possible. Look at the text and don't tell me you're not smart enough to write it the way you are. Well, that's not true either. Not the third time. And the fourth time. When quoting the first paragraph of Article 3 of this Convention and stating that all activities relating to children must be the primary management of the child's benefits. However, the text is omitted, which is, of course, crucial in this case. It is all about the conduct of institutions, that is to say, either social protection, courts, administrative authorities and the legislative body. It is written here in the context that this text must therefore be understood in such a way that the child has not only the right to a loving mother but that his interest is even greater, that he also has a loving father. If this is not, to put it mildly, a suggestion that I do not say anything else, in the context of the convention adopted in the organization of the United Nations, to include and take these things out of the way, I do not think it is true. And once again, in the end, at the end of the last paragraph, you write that there has been inadmissible disregard for all international conventions. Or is the free adaptation of the texts of international conventions acceptable? So I ask myself, I know, 30 signatories to the request for a referendum are enough to actually decide on the basis of data based on a justification that is not in line with the truth. I know. I can get an answer. It's just the state of the spirit here. Okay. But I can say, and I have this constitutional right, and I'm going to use it, and I simply object to this state of spirit by objecting to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u77	Once again, last time, I explain the status, the formal status of the explanation attached to the invitation to tender. This explanation is not an integral part of the explanation in the judgment. This is the right that the applicant has, and is not an object, not a formal component of the document that we will accept today. Once again as an explanation It is not possible not to amend it, not to change it. It's not up to us. My friend Anderlich asked for the floor. Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u78	I think that your orientation has now been incorrect, as it concerns the explanation, because the explanation comes from what we decide. And the communication to the public will be indisputably clear through a decree that is justified by justification. And here it goes, Mr. Cuckoo, but I thought it was a lapus with you, and apparently it's not. When you say, "our opinion is in point 1," it's not true. At the time of the debate, two views were mainly drawn up. And then you carry on. Kamreč, if there is a position, is a position that is adopted, which is uniform, and which you do not think can be interpreted as such, but in our view you are manipulating, but which is truly unworthy of this house. We have written down such an opinion, which does not correspond to a position which does not correspond to the facts, but you will have plenty of time in public debate and campaigning before the referendum, tell us what is really right. It's not a democracy, it's not fair, Mr. Tuckati. And Christian morality does not allow that, nor does mine, because I fight specifically for justice. Mr. Sok, the longer you mention your things, the later you'll go to the arboretum. It's just that. If you think I came here, I'll confirm it, because it's possible anyway. I suggested this to you on Thursday, you agreed with me, you even supported me in this, and then you made it as if it wasn't at all. But we're only talking about morality. Mr Cuckoo, it is not fair, it is not fair for you to tell the public what your opinion is, which is contrary to your point of view, and to change your position into an opinion, if you, the opponents think and defend it. That's not true! And let the opponents go public and explain. A, you know what's basic. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the rule of law in our country? [[...]] You probably know better than I do. Well, not the one who has to answer the lies and the lies, but the one who spreads the untruths is responsible before the law. And he asks himself what he meant by that and why he cheated, why he manipulated and so on. And you're going into a different logic. I am absolute, I say this, everyone else explain, go to institutions and prove that I was wrong. It's not fair. And I fight for the truth and only for the truth. And if it's a democracy, Mr. Sok, that you say, I came here, that's where they're waiting for me, I'll confirm it, and so on. You have the right, and I have undisputedly made it clear, you tabled, I will finally vote, I said that last week, but not manipulated. Look, in the previous one, I also speak to those who speak, yes, if there was a normal procedure, it would be different. In his previous reference, he was chairman of the Disability Commission. And he came to us who were supporting the marriage, and he said, for God's sake, in our hills high above Škofja Loko lives a young lady 35 years old, a biological clock is running out, he can't provide an heir under normal circumstances. Give it to her, but of course not to everyone else. So who's the one who can judge in this way? So he who understood some hardship of one woman and came and because he had this, this power and this possibility, he said to you, yes, to the others, but no. No, before marriage we must all be the same or such a marriage is bad. It can't be better for some, but for some it's less favourable for the law. Now that we are talking about these explanations, the secretariat and the President can explain in any way, but it cannot be said that this explanation, which includes the decree, has nothing to do with the decision and that it will not be made public anywhere. After all, it is a public document. If we do not have those who think we are credited with something that is not our position, which is not our claim, which is attributed to us by the counsel, if we do not have the right to demand that they really be published in the explanations of the position which are credible, which sums up what was, but that someone - I really do not know what kind of morality this is. I'm just surprised. If there's not enough trust to say, I'm sorry, it's written down differently than it's actually true. Moreover, to change your views into an opinion that we should correct in public debate. Of course, if I also take into account the level established by Mr Jerovšek that he compared the discussion with the mad cows, then we are on a bad path in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u79	So, once again, now I'm just going to give Dr. Kebra a word before the break. And once again, I have to explain that there will be no misunderstandings. The decree has one explanation. This explanation is made on the other side of this Decision. This is an integral part of the document that we will decide on today. The explanation attached to the request is the justification given by the applicants. It may or may not be agreed with, but it cannot be amended. So much for an explanation. Dr. Keber, you have the floor, then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u80	Dear President! My two predecessors, or more, have taken away some of my discussions. Nevertheless, I am obliged to explain my frequent advertising, regardless of the fact that you have explained that I have this right. In this explanation for the referendum, the government and the Ministry of Health are explicitly appointed. They are mentioned under a statement which not only does not correspond, but this Parliament has voted in a new law, which is different. The government and the Ministry of Health were the ones who absolutely reduced the so-called pre-election proposal. And this is also acknowledged by that group that I now potentially refer to as opponents of this law. We were talking about closed doors. We were talking about a commission. Now I don't know if it's just a semantic question whether it's a question of a foreign dictionary or something else. But it is not literally true that the government or the Ministry of Health would represent the absolute right of single, fertile and mentally disturbed women, etc. If I can accept this as a political game, it is more difficult to understand than my naturalist colleague, Dr. Cuckati, to avoid it. That's the truth, Dr. Knockat. In particular, if I join Mr Anderlich, he will perform when he actually becomes the definition of two camps. One camp, excuse me, is now absolutely forcing me to shorten, mentally disturbed women and the other camp children's rights. And let me put it myself, in which I would say this again is my personal opinion, in the state I have no right, amazement that it is easy to say that this was not the decision of this House. It is very likely, or I believe, that it is not, but in public, that this problem will be identified in the media precisely by these two paragraphs. And I'm just wondering if you can at least distance yourself from that explanation. But now I am interfering with the rules of procedure of this House. I'm sorry. The first sentence, and of course the second one, do not fit the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u81	Procedurally, then I'm taking a break. What is your procedural proposal, Dr. Bayuk? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. I would suggest, procedurally, that we continue the debate and not take a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u83	This is possible if the majority of the national council so decides. I put this procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present. Dr. Bayuk's proposal to continue without a break was supported by 32 of them, 9 of them opposed him. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that it has been adopted and that we can proceed with the debate. A colleague of Sok is also reported for the replica, followed by debaters, fellow Merlo [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Comrade Peterle, you are twice then reported for replica and thank you very much. [[...]] Comrade Sok, behind him is fellow Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. For a moment, I would like to replicate to Mr. Anderlich, who is concerned about my leisure activities. So I just wanted to point out the nonsense of this debate that revolves around in a vicious circle. That's what I was gonna say. And it's true what was said. The explanation is just the way it is. If you agree with her or not. The explanation will not be a matter of a referendum question. The point of the referendum question is what is written there in the decree itself. As far as accepting this is concerned, I'd like to tell you this. Mr Anderlič, on Friday at quarter to six, you suggested that the National Assembly should suspend the work, even though it could then proceed to the consideration of the plant health law, which should be adopted due to the emergency needs of the State under the rapid procedure. You suggested that the Parliamentary meeting should be suspended in order to convene a college with the President of Parliament. With the President of Parliament, you have asked the National Assembly to proceed immediately to the debate on this referendum decision. So, you stayed with that claim. And since others did not give you a hard time about it, you also referred to or showed where our Christian moral values were and so forth. Look, that's when you wanted to make things quick. You said it was just a matter of deciding that signatures were collected, that we didn't have much to talk about. Today, however, you speak quite differently. Today, however, this debate revolves around one and the same issue that we have already heard in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. First, my friend Peterle, behind him is colleague Anderlich. These are also replicas, and then Mr. Merlo, Dr. Merl's performance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Mrs Simšič has talked a lot about rights, others have talked about it, and when Mr Jakič, who I also thought to replicate or take advantage of this opportunity, has twice explicitly said that it is for the right of every woman to have the right to do so, this is very contrary to what Mr Minister or someone else has said. [[...]] However, I believe that this position is sincere and, as it is said, we have a perfectly correct and appropriate interpretation in this regard. And it is obvious that this illegally executed rapid procedure against the 201st Article of our Rules of Procedure has been overshadowed and has become a very long process. And, gentlemen, those who went against the rules of procedure, you extended this debate and, of course, led, by decision, to the referendum. Those who have formally proposed this are merely the result of conduct that does not have a basis in the Rules of Procedure, because it is not the interest of defence, not of natural disaster, nor of emergency situations. And I got in the hands of Professor Karl Zupančič from the Faculty of Law, which is very clear and professional, and I quote him because I am not a lawyer and a specialist in these matters. And with regard to the rights that are so high here, and which are so misleadingly processed already in the objectives and principles of the law, as I once said, in this regard, the legal opinion on this line is very clear, not Mr Zupančič says that the President of the European Court of Human Rights, Wildhaber, is of the opinion on the right to family life - this is Article 8 of the European Convention, perhaps many do not know that there is also a right to family life, that the right to natural human reproduction does not necessarily give rise to the right to artificial reproduction. This was published in 1995 in International Comments MeusehenrechtsConvention, page 75, paragraph 192. And then the thing that I'm reading with even more attention: "...specially", I quote, is unacceptable from the point of view of protecting the benefit of a child initiated by [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , expressly required by the second paragraph of Article 2 of the Law. [[...]] Protecting the benefit of the child is a principle of family law and especially of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is part of our law." It's part of our right. "The Convention stipulates that in all activities concerning children, the child's benefits must be the main guide ", the English text speaks of the greatest benefit of the child, the best interest of [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] ‘Article 3, paragraph 1’. [[...]] And so on. There's also something to say about the constitution. And I'm in favour of being culturally aware of the various rights that are taking place here. And what I'm saying is this derivative position, which is -- it doesn't matter to me whether it's one person or a few thousand, because it introduces some principle, the introduction of some rights for which a majority chooses. I think that this approach is, in principle, controversial and that there has been a law of misprincipal assumptions or starting point. That is why we have problems because it is fighting with other rights, which also take place in the circle of those involved in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u88	Well, it probably doesn't make any sense, as Mr Sok says, because he's here, I'm sure, as is probably the case with others. But if I had closely followed this debate, I could have found that I did not apply for the debate, but I responded to the discussions of the signatories of the request for a referendum, which were mainly - I started with Rokavec, Jerovsk, Ruparje and I did not think I was worthy of replicating it, but, of course, as Mr Tsukjati's chief spokesman - that, of course, when they justify the request for a referendum, they simply abuse the facts. This is unacceptable, and I, of course, as a Democrat, as a human being, as a Christian, cannot go through this. Of course, I'm "Christian," even baptized. Of course, look, you can't say that the explanation "doesn't matter" etc. Any recorded case going through this procedure in the National Assembly must also be critically judged in terms of whether or not it contains such claims, whether they are true or not. It cannot be said that an explanation containing views can be any different from a credible reflection of what they mean. We're not dealing with this here. In this case, we have nothing to do with this. I'm sorry it's like that. But if we--and here, of course, talk about trust, about honesty, and I don't know what else. Admit it or not, I don't care, I've created my own opinion that it's really a deception and manipulation if it's claimed at the first point what's said because it's not true. Of course, when you're trying to say now, "Mrs, that's what we have the right to do; certainly, ten times I've said, there's no dilemma." When I proposed on Thursday on behalf of the Group of Members who authorised me to suggest that, if possible, even courage, with your support and your agreement, when I spoke to you that it would be best if we could just finish what we did on Thursday, and then, of course, you clearly denied it. My Christian morality doesn't allow it, I suppose yours can. I have suggested this, no one can demand it anyway, because most decisions are made and at this level it is a shame to lose words. I think it would be right, however, for credible things to be communicated from this place, to be presented with truths, including opinions. I absolutely think it's right for opinions to communicate what someone thinks. Of course, it's not the way to say it: it's my opinion that they're saying it and that's it if it were, but it isn't! They state: their position is that, not in my opinion, their position is that; but: their position is that and they are burned, and ours is different. And that's for democracy. That's bad. For even - I suppose I have no hope of convincing anyone - even if we, of course, correct this dictatorship now and state the truth, I would not suffer the demand and the decree itself, which I believe is just before the adoption and the invitation to a referendum. This has nothing to do with it. But; it has to do with talking about trust, when you talk about honesty, when you talk about everything, what, who's behind the ridge, then of course it's my desire that the truth be true, at least as much as possible in this space. If you don't care what you claim, even if you're misleading, then it's also right; but really, I'm not going to make any more calls, and at least I'm worried about what you're going to do this afternoon. I was thinking more than anything, given that you mentioned in the previous debate that you wanted to go to Arboretum, that I was thinking of helping you on Thursday, but you didn't have to agree that we could have all day. I went, say, to the Savinja grove yesterday, and it's nice there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. My friend Brenčič has the floor. This is also the last reported replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had to make some kind of call, given that so many speeches are mainly by Anderlič's colleague on credibility, the truth contained in the explanation of this request. I say that the amendment of the law, which is unfortunately also the subject of this requirement, brings some positive things that correct the weaknesses of the roof law that we have adopted. And I'm going to leave that part that's "discussive" and controversial and that's kind of a stage of transition forward into our society that people should decide about. But honestly, Mr Anderlič, if this law, the amendment of the law had in its explanation, in its introduction a little more legal matter, to say this, which must also be an introduction, an explanation, a little less tendictive, a little less criminal at least to those who were involved in the basic version of the law, including Dr. Brain, who quoted it earlier, would also be a positive result, at least today and the subject of which is your replica: the reality, the credibility of the justification of the request, would probably be different. So sometimes it is necessary to be somewhat self-critical and look back on what kind of traveler this law got when it came to Parliament. After all, the matter has ended well, and I hope that people will also make a decision in this regard according to their most positive assessment. But I can say that marriage is as it is, because marriage is much better in its final form than it could have been. I would also like this referendum to be successful in one way or another for this novel, or to stand if it does not stand, that the Minister will be the first to approach as he has now approached, to make things right in the roof law, to be operational and acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Thus we have exhausted the circle of replicas and I invite my colleague, Dr Merla, to present his position and behind him colleagues Podobnik, Peterle and Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues! Well, I may have calculated that this story would go a little differently than it did. Perhaps also because this figure was mentioned at the outset, the amount that should have been high, and I reckon that an initiative would have been given to a constitutional court that could have resolved to this indent of these so-called'same women', would have given its opinion and, therefore, this could have been carried forward quite quickly; in short, the law was implemented. Well, I have to admit, I haven't seen as much of this as -- let's say -- they were listed, I don't see them either. I must admit, once again, that this state commission, which we have already accepted somewhere, and it has been some kind of tribute, a real gift, is essentially right -- let's say, dealing with these very borderline cases, which are so-called if I use this term,'same women'. Other than that, everything else we've pulled out somewhere to go into some sub-inspirational programs. So that I think that the disturbed persons and the like that would have been possible for them to be able to now through this committee would not have been able to imagine that -- let's say -- we would go through this commission. And it's actually the only job that this committee should have. So that I do not have these concerns and this was a surprise, this proposal for this resolution on the invitation to this referendum for me, I must admit, is a great surprise, but surely what this amendment of the law of implementation is moving us back into some future. And we know how that's why we tried to drive these things quickly, because the couples who kept asking us to do something as soon as possible, we tried it, but it didn't work out the most. However, I must admit that in all the story I may have been struck by one thing, that my colleague, my fellow Member, Mr Tsukati, may have touched all health profiles and I do not know who, not all, from the chamber, I think that the medical society, I do not know, was not careful enough, but the union may be a doctor who is also an extremely powerful, influential lobby. So, I didn't get that straight from that, so maybe I was a little unwarranted. In short, I have little problem with the fact that when it comes to the adoption of a law, which is also said by my colleague Tsukjat, that it is exclusively a political issue, a political issue, then the day such emphasis is given to these professional associations, but certainly to doctors, who know that it is our duty to be over health, for example, we may say, over life, but now we are -- as you can see, we are already going so far -- they are also asking about death and asking us what we think about euthanasia, if we do euthanasia and so on. So maybe the journalists are giving us some kind of validity that we're not even good at, and maybe they're raping us into some statements, thinking, and some kind of question, as if we were called upon to give "urbiet orbit" statements about what I can say about life and death. Well, to me, I have to admit, that's what he's really up against. I think, as we're going to get in the medical types that are in favor and against this issue, we would also probably get an extremely negative opinion or we'd go asking gynecologists what they think about abortions. It would probably be rare to think that this is nothing to be done and so on. We'd probably all be almost against it. And what does that mean? That the law makes this possible, and then all of a sudden we suggest to him, practically in the profession, that he doesn't do it. But I think there's some real danger in these things that we start showing up as doctors as some kind of public opinion supervisor and something like that, and we write in the media, what are the risks that I know are yellow or I don't know what kind of children. For me, the child is a child. I have given birth to one and the other, whether he is healthy or less healthy or similar; but the child is a child. And through this prism I have a little, I have to admit, now also scared, what my narrow profession is telling me is that the danger of ban -- we know what points along with this law are attached to this possibility of allowing abortion to women up to 10 weeks of pregnancy. I think we're close and we can go through this, in one referendum, soon even on the prohibition of abortion. I told you, I'm sure he'll be afraid that if we were to ask him professionally, we would probably be in a rather negative mood, until the act itself, because we know what happens to the child at the end, how it ends and so on. And I think that from what I'm saying about historical memories, I'd be able to get rid of it pretty quickly, and from the memory of how our women didn't die that long, or how these richer layers went out, and with the rest of them, what happened to them, we know that. So to me, the whole thing - I have to admit I didn't count and it surprised me that she went as far as she went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Comrade Merlo. Comrade Drobnic has the floor to explain the previous debate, followed by his colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I would like to submit a replica - Mr President has slightly overlooked me - to the debaters, especially Mr Kacin and others, on the basis of this and the reasons and the avant-garde, the advanced ideas behind this bill. Given the advantages and the conservativeness here we find a lot of reasons to look at the family, how it went through the historical prism, we see that actually, if we study it now, it goes more in terms of regression and what's going on now, you can see this slightly. So, given the advantages, and who's capping for or in front of the public and who's walking in front of the public, we also have experience with some 40 or 50 years, when we've always listened to some avant-garde, and then we've found that we're far behind, both in an economic sense and in a scientific sense, in a sociological and I don't know what else. So would Switzerland, which has a lot of, I'll say, the law in terms of biomedical assistance in the treatment of infertility, that it also allows only married couples, that it's not some backward country and we could follow such examples [[...]] Otherwise, with regard to the liberal spirit, let me tell you: the liberals were at the beginning of this century against the right of women to vote. So in terms of this liberal spirit, I don't consider this to be some kind of continuity up, but we're traveling in some sort of horizontal way, where maybe technology, the technique is progressing, and while the other area is actually still on the same level, it's just spinning. Is this the subject of the referendum or not? This was discussed mainly by DeSUS, Mr Delak. Yeah, that's a very important ethical question. And perhaps we will face another one if we adopt such laws that open up extremely important or difficult dilemmas so quickly. Why did I, in fact, decide to support and sign this request for a subsequent referendum? Because, for the first time, the legal profession had serious concerns; because those who deal with ethical issues in the medical field had serious comments and the medical profession itself and also my ethical stance. I have the right to this ethical posture. And given which voters I represent, I am sure that I am representing this part of the electoral body that is determined to do so, and I have the right to do so, and that is why I will vote accordingly. And if it's on the other end, so, another opinion that's different, then I'll leave it to that second opinion to decide. However, I must point out something: that there are two points of view which are quite well defined in this explanation. I am simply stressing or thinking that the right to children's rights is stronger than the right to maternity. It is also the principle of the law that the one who is weaker has stronger protection. That's why this is it. There's no record of a woman's right to a child in the constitution, but it writes nicely, children enjoy special protection and care, and it's well-founded. It is precisely because of this fact, because it would be there in the case of a child who is already in a worse situation because he cannot make a decision, that is why we also have an adopted law, so we have laws protecting him so that this matter can be levelled so that the rights can be levelled. Then about the costs that were mentioned, 500 million. Really. This will cause We could not have a referendum if it were a different decision. [[...]] But surely the costs will be higher if this practice continues: without parenting one of the parents, because someone will have to cover these costs. I am not only talking about the costs of fertilisation itself, which are relatively high, but also about someone taking over such an economic maintenance function. There is something else I would like to stress here - the right or obligation of parents to take care of children. To give them education, to give them the opportunity to meet and learn about the role of both sexes. In this case, they're underprivileged. We can talk about economic and other social disadvantages and we do not need to create such a situation for deprivation by law, because only life, natural life, brings this deprivation. These are the key reasons. On this point, and then, Mr President, I conclude. With regard to parenthood and this idea - in particular the combined list of liberal Democrats - responsibilities, parental responsibilities, the responsibility we have towards children. In fact, we deny that idea and the idea of responsible parenting. For this child will not have a child - or a responsible fatherhood, that I am more precise. That's exactly what it is: we're essentially creating a state where there's not going to be any responsibility. That's what the state does in advance. In fact, in every community, society, there are things that we prefer to do, but the things we allow are not criminal, and there are things that we prohibit. This is to be distinguished. But with this substance, you can put where it's going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Member Beumann has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Let me first say that, until now, I have somehow abstained from reaching into the debate, because I believe that it is far beyond what was actually meant today. Unfortunately, I don't see a representative of the secretariat here right now. If I were here, of course, I would politely ask her how we should actually vote today on the decision that we are intimately strongly opposed to politicising this matter in the way that it has politicized itself, and this legal requirement that today the State Assembly should decide in general as is the case with the law. So now to the replica. I must certainly replicate to my fellow Member, because when he speaks of children's rights being certainly stronger than the right to maternity, of course I remember the big discussions at the 55th Article of the Slovenian Constitution. At that time, the right hand also spoke of one absolute right, namely the right to life. I apologize to the gentlemen, but this is not going well for me: on the one hand, to defend the right to life, and on the other hand, in all such and other ways - here, in the whole attempt of the referendum decision - to prevent a woman, any woman, from producing a new life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u97	Thank you. I must say, a few other Members have raised their hands. First, Mr. Wolf. Your turn, of course, Member Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u98	It probably wouldn't make sense to replicate, but you have to distinguish what the right to protect lives is. If there's a life once, then let's keep it. When he's gone, we don't have to discuss him because he's gone. And so does the Constitution, and so do we. Once life is whatever it is, even if it is - I don't know that she's just a single mother, we protect and keep it. That's our opinion. And that's how the Constitution talks about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Member Wolf has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In my debate, I will not touch on the request for a post-referendum, because I personally believe that the request is legitimate in accordance with law and law. The new law, as far as I have represented it, on the treatment of infertility and procedures with biomedical assistance eliminates the discrimination of single women and eliminates the restriction on the right to artificial insemination based on singleness, so I understood "represented". For the original law allows this procedure only to a woman, and to a man living in a marriage and extramarital community, to have only such a child as to have normal conditions for the development of his personality and not to be denied the right to parenthood. That's what was written in the explanation. This way, of course, we place, in my opinion, "the privileged position of a married woman, or those living in an extramarital community, clearly with a man. But I'm surprised the Shadowsman, at least here, didn't ask what kind of man or father he was with. In the debates I have listened to, I have remembered an article by Mrs Dese Muck, who deals very much with this type of writing, on the subject of child abuse and sexual abuse. In her article, she described a letter she received from a young girl. The girl mentioned first, described her story, and wrote that when she was seven years old, her father first touched her, began to suffer her. The result was that she shut herself up and was quiet. She was afraid of being with her father. When she was 14 years old, she wanted her father very much to leave this family and leave her mother. When she was 16 years old, she wanted her father to die. When she was 18 years old, she left home and asked her mother, "Mother, why did you let all this happen?" And my mother's answer was, "For your sake, children, you will not live without a father." I also think it's very important: to open the second side of the medal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. It is now reported in the order of colleague Podobnik, who is not among us. That's why I give my word to my colleague Peterlet, and to my colleague Diaca, on the list I have before me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! I have to say that I expected the debate to go on this side, even though I wanted it to be different. Probably, when it comes to talking about values, there can be no debate over ideological dimensions, and this is happening to us from the very beginning, and it is actually continuing as it began. Today there was a lot of talk about deception, lies, etc. But the lie or deception is incorporated on page five of the rapporteur who presented this law in the aims and principles of the law, for a simple reader - it is particularly worth highlighting that it is the right to treat infertility. Especially after a quick reading, one would say, this is an absolute matter to greet or support, and so, of course, many in the public run that there is some terrible truth that fights the treatment of infertility, but there is something else to offer. The Kal of this deception is described here for the very purpose of the law. Of course, because the ideological justification is such as here, where there is talk about the threat, the conservativeism, the retrogression, etc., were added today from the old arsenal, I would say, from the old party closet even those distinctive words that are gladly used and I will not repeat them here. I just want to say one thing. Look. If, ladies and gentlemen, we all say that we are in favour of Europe, then let us also take conservativeness as a democratic choice that has its legitimacy. And in European countries, in the Member States of the European Union, as well as in other Member States, these party divisions do not use conservativeism - bad, progressive - good. There is simply no such division, and I advise you not to talk like that anymore, because we do not benefit anyone with this kind of ideological speech. I'm for ideological talk in the cultural context. This conservativeness, however, is absolutely unnecessary and also harmful, including to this national assembly. At the time when the European Conservative Line fought for Slovenian recognition in the European Council and the European Parliament, no one spoke of conservativeism in this way. If you're having a hard time today, let me know. Second point: Disqualification of the candidates of the referendum in relation to costs. Those who talked about it, I would like to ask, when did they turn against the terrible waste of state money that they burned -- let's say, I give you just one example, managers in companies that have spent years doing business with state money, losing it, and so on. When did they speak against a changing fleet in some government institutions and government houses themselves? When did they say anything about ten security guards for one Prime Minister against two security guards for another Prime Minister? When did they say anything about travelling high-ranking Slovenian national dignitaries with Concord to America, because it is also necessary to have experience with Concord? And so on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's spar' where it is absolutely yes, and do not undermine a democratic initiative or the most direct democratic instrument, such as a referendum with such disqualifications and poorer treatment. This, of course, has also happened, and I think it would have earned more than just a replica that one of the parliamentary groups had announced a vote against the decree. So, the predecessor of the same party would have called this a few years earlier an assault on constitutional arrangements. It was a syntagma that we listened to when we thought otherwise, but there was a wonderful article that could always have been inserted where the party was of its own volition. So here I advise, although I think someone said something else, but on behalf of the Group of Members it was said: we will not support this matter. I am aware that in this political picture, such as that of witnesses of capital and ideological concrete for years to come, but I would expect a Member who was democratically elected to have some measure and to maintain at least some minimum democratic standards, respect the rules of procedure, do not rape us with procedures that are not in law or in the Rules of Procedure, allow for a debate on things like this, which is obviously not simple and has raised more questions than she has solved. And that's what I'd say. The experience from other countries, as I have seen, is this: when a committee, in particular if it unanimously decides, supports a matter, then, as discussed here, does not debate further and even threatens to vote "against". If the Committee so decides, it is generally in the National Assembly that the matter is supported. There's another brighter one about single women. I've been dealing with this issue, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u103	My friend Peterle, I'm afraid time has run out, so it's all the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u104	And since I loved single women very much, I married one, and I've had enough, and I'm feeling pretty good. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u105	We will not vote on this. My friend Diaca now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the SMS Group, there is a difference of opinion about the law that we are going to call a referendum today, which I have no doubt, and we have each of our own views. I will not go into the very content of the law, which, in my opinion, is not disputed, at least to allow the right - I emphasise - to enable single women to be fertilized, legitimately and constitutionally. At the same time, in my opinion, the law does not command anything in this segment, but it does. And that, in my opinion, is the point: to make it possible, in a pre-requisited procedure and to be aware of the consequences. Today's debate shows, in my opinion, different worldview views. I respect the willingness and opinion of the signatories to the referendum initiative, which is likely to be avoided by regular procedure or not, but I must admit that I regret that the funds we will spend on the referendum have not been earmarked for construction, such as for paediatric clinics, and that the debate will continue in these premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of niggers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I must also find this way that my colleague Drobnic has also shown a great deal of honesty today, when he has theoretically defined the family, its origin, its development and today's crisis in which it is undoubtedly located. However, I think that we have all somehow forgotten what is really necessary for children today and what is needed to raise and raise children. Children need to live in a warm, sensitive, safe and caring environment. This environment, of course, is not necessarily just a family environment and the family is not the only living cell where the child grows up and grows up. This, of course, can historically be proved by thousands of children who grew up without parents after World War II, including thousands of children, today still grow up in different homes, as well as in foster families and so forth. That's what we forgot to say when we were talking about it. But I do not replicate this, but I replicate in particular the fact that Mr Drobnič wanted to show and demonstrate in one way that some constitutional rights are in a higher order and some in a lower order. And if we build according to the number of articles and how Slovenia defines it in the Constitution, it is the first article, but the 55th article, which speaks of freedom and freedom of thought on the birth of children, is only the 56th article, which speaks of the rights of children. That's what they say. The kids are when they're born, and today we're talking about it. After all, article 14 is the one who is decisive, who speaks of the fact that we are all equal before the law and equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-03-SDZ3-Izredna-07.ana.u109	Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] So, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the call for a follow-up legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Fertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's what I'm putting to the vote. There are 60 Members and Members present. 31 Members and Members voted in favour of the decree, two of them opposed it. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I also conclude this agenda item and the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
