ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings as follows: Lidija Majnik, Franc Kangler, Bogomir Vnučec, Ferry Horvat from 11.30 p.m., Richard Beumann, Josef Školč from 12.00 p.m., Borut Pahor, Irma Pavlinič Krebs from 12.00 p.m. onwards, Ivan Bozič from 12.30 p.m. and Vojko Čeligoj. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we establish our presence! Please insert the cards. [[60 present.]] The Assembly may decide. We invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the candidates for judges of the European Court of Human Rights: Dr. Arnej Mavčič, Prof. Anton Perenič, prof. dr. Boštjana M. Zupančič, who accompany this point at the gallery, as well as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone. Today's follow-up to the 2nd session will begin with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda - the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint three candidates for the judge of the European Court of Human Rights and, of course, on the agenda ahead. I would like to inform you that we will move item 4 to Tuesday due to the proponent's restraint. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm moving on to 2. Agenda item - Defence proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination of three candidates for the Court of Justice of the European Court of Human Rights. The President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed that Dr Arnej Mavčič, Prof. Anton Perenič and Prof. Bostiana M. It's a toothpick. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No one's signed up to this point unless I'm wrong. [[They don't want to.]] Thank you. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There's no interest in debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. In accordance with Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 80 of the Constitutional Court Act, the assembly on the appointment of candidates for judges of the European Court of Justice shall vote in secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the President, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups made the following proposals for members of the electoral commission: Rudolf Moge, Branko Kelemina, Aurelio Juri, Sonja Areh Lavrič, I am also a member of this commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? It doesn't look like it. Thank you very much. I propose to the vote for such a composition of the electoral commission. Let's find out who's here! [[70 present.]] [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, votes will be delivered to Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the voting shall deliver three votes to each Member, and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall indicate on the name and surname of the Member in the list that the votes have been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. On the basis of Article 80, in conjunction with Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, each proposed candidate will be appointed for the proposed function if the "yes" majority of all Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber, at the table next to the voting booths. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we just move on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist in the vote are requested to report immediately to room 117, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 10.30 a.m. and will last until 10.45 a.m. Fifteen minutes will do? Okay, let's add five more minutes just in case - up to 10.50 [[Twenty minutes will do.]] . Members who will assist me in voting, please meet in room 117 after the end of the vote. I suggest we continue the meeting at 11:15. Thank you very much. So the vote will begin at 10:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. Please, let's find out who's here! [[69 Members and Members.]] The assembly shall be adjourned for publication of the outcome of the vote. Allow me to read the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the designation of three candidates as Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. a) For Dr Arnej Mavčič, the vote took place on Friday, 26 January 2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 were invalid, 6 were valid, 74 were valid. The "yes" was voted by 55 Members and "against" 19 Members. On the basis of this outcome of the vote, Dr Arne Mavčič was appointed candidate for the European Court of Human Rights. b) For Prof. Dr. Anton Perenič. The vote was held on Friday 26 January 2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 votes delivered, 5 invalid, 75 valid. The "yes" was voted by 64 Members, "against" 11 Members. On the basis of this outcome, Prof. Dr. Perenič was appointed candidate for the European Court of Human Rights. (c) Prof. Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič. The vote was held on Friday 26 January 2001 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered, 3 were invalid, 77 were valid. The "yes" was voted by 60 Members and "against" 17 Members. On the basis of this outcome of the vote, Prof. Boštjan M. Zupančič was appointed candidate for the European Court of Human Rights. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has appointed the following candidates for judges of the European Court of Human Rights: (a) Prof. Dr. Perenič 64 votes, (b) Prof. Dr. Zupančič 60 votes, and (c) Dr. Arne Mavčič 55 votes. All three honest congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to the next item in the agenda, that's 3. Dot of the Day - Third Defence Proposal of the Audit Law. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. Does the government want a word? Dr. Nina Platt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you. In preparing the Third Treatment Act, the Government introduced amendments to the second reading law. However, since I already have the floor, I would also like to say that the applicant supports or agrees with the amendment proposed by the mother's working body and for the same reasons why the mother's working body proposes this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. He wants to speak to the committee rapporteur. Please, Mr. Pucko, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u5	At its 1st meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposed law replacing the text of the draft law submitted by the Government in its previous composition in the month of August last year. The discussion focused on the following. In particular, questions relating to the proposal to further general or partial explanations of the individual solutions submitted to the draft text, with particular reference to the apparent divergent position and definition of the proposer, the government in the previous formulation and this proposal for a law. In the light of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, which notes that all amendments were adopted in the second reading and that it allows for the amendment of the law as admissible editorial corrections of the text and does not at the same time have any other comments, the Committee of the State Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed amendment of the Committee should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I've already got one written application here. It's a mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please present your position or on behalf of the Group of Members, then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u7	President, thank you so much for your word. Honorable representative of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! The Audit Act is classified among the laws to be aligned with the legal order and standards of the Member States of the European Community or to take as much account of the regulation as possible known by the developed European countries in this area. When the experts of the previous government took over the preparation of the new revision law for the third hearing in the National Assembly, they found that the law does not meet the objectives for which it is necessary to adopt it. Some provisions even provide for solutions worse than those found in the current legislation. In preparing the Third Review Act in the National Assembly, we found that, in the first and second readings, the most important provisions of the new law were not amended and supplemented so that they could also be amended for formal reasons. Nevertheless, we have prepared the most urgent amendments and amendments to the law in the form of amendments, with the necessary justification, and have sent such a law on revision to be examined, with the proposal that the National Assembly reject it, while at the same time sending the same text of the law with the amendments included as a new law to be dealt with quickly. To our great surprise, the current government or the new coalition has already committed itself in the coalition contract to withdraw and replace the third reading law submitted by the previous government in the original text without considering it worthy to define the amendments and additions made in the 37 amendments. Therefore, we are firmly obliged to say that the law on auditing, as presented for third reading, does not mean that there is real coordination with the legal order and the standards of the Member States of the European Community in the most important objectives. In particular, it seems important to us that the second group of requirements of Guideline 8 should be aligned with the new auditing law, which relates to the fundamental principles to be met by the audit activity. These are: the principle of independence of auditing - auditing must take place independently, impartially and in accordance with the rules of the profession; and the principle of control - the State must ensure that auditing is carried out in accordance with the principle of independence of auditing. However, it is precisely these fundamental amendments that the new revision law does not provide, and it is precisely this group of requirements that relate to largely the changes and additions made by the previous Government for third treatment. I am probably, or I am sure, that the competent authorities of the European Community will determine when they will translate the law that we have failed to fulfil the task or that we have failed to comply with the European Community guidelines and why the new auditing law does not provide for the implementation of the principles of independence of auditing. The current law in Article 27 prohibits auditees from carrying out this activity if they are in any way capital-related to undertakings and other legal persons. So, regardless of the size of the shares or shares. It also prohibits auditing in legal persons where auditors are related or otherwise linked to members of administrations, supervisory boards or owners of legal persons. The current regulation of the definition of independence, according to experts, is not complete, because it does not define independence in the reverse direction. This is when companies or other persons, for example, are participating capital in audit firms. It is certainly better for our situation than proposed in the new auditing law. In contrast to the current arrangement of the capital link, they are not completely prohibited, but are set out in this Act by those definitions of shares or participation in a qualified share or proportion of voting rights. In doing so, the following two or even more vital questions are raised. For example, can the audit firm audit an undertaking where members of the board, the supervisory board or employees under individual contracts in an undertaking or other legal person, the auditor, have less than 10% of the voting rights in that audit company or a qualified proportion? Therefore, if they have only a 9.9% share in such an audit company, they may order an audit of the accounts. In the law proposed in the third reading, there is no limit, nor is it up to 10%, that the audit firm should not audit the company if one of its auditors has an 80% share in the company, then the audit may be carried out by its co-worker or another authorised auditor in that audit company. We also need to know that most of the 45 audit companies in Slovenia are small, with a small number of authorised auditors. The very important question is whether you, my fellow Members, seem to have the possibility of such revisions, independent audits. Why we also consider that the new auditing law does not provide for the implementation of the fundamental principle of State control over audit companies. The eighth directive of the European Community requires Member States to test whether audit firms actually comply with the guidelines laid down by the conditions, with supervision by the competent supervisory authority of a Member State. In doing so, it provides that the competent supervisory authority shall also be an appropriate professional association in accordance with this Guideline if, for the first time, it has, under the law of a Member State, a public authority to decide on the permitted work of auditors and whether it has the power to exercise control. Such powers, i.e. public authority to exercise control, are granted in Slovenia to the Slovenian Institute for Audit as a professional association or residence institution. However, I stress that the new law on auditing regulates this control very poorly. The law does not clearly specify which body of the institute and with what powers it carries out the control procedure defined in that law as a specific type of administrative procedure. It does not lay down the responsibilities of the persons exercising this control. The responsibility for the exercise of public powers by law does not even have the designated Slovenian Institute of Audit as an institution; it is also obliged to report on its work annually to the National Assembly. The National Assembly has never before considered the annual report of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, only by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The responsibility of the Slovenian Institute as a holder of public powers should be defined in the law even more clearly and unequivocally as it has the status of a private institution, the founder of which is the association of accounting companies, financiers and auditors of Slovenia. We are convinced that this National Assembly cannot be a silent contractor in a coalition contract of certain commitments when it comes to meeting such important obligations as the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the legal order of the European Community and in line with the established standards of the Member States of the European Community in the field of audit activities. The capital market, which we must open up because of our own development of the interests of the approximation of the European Community, requires, on the contrary, not only the determination but also the implementation of uniform auditing standards. The National Assembly should, with full responsibility, address amendments or amendments to the audit law prepared by the previous Government, reject the current proposal and start a new first review of the revision law with all necessary additions. If nothing else, the Government should clearly define up to 37 amendments tabled by the previous Government on the basis of an expert opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr. Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This proposal, which is before us today, is crucial to the functioning of the market economy in the future in our territory. It is impossible to expect that the market economy will truly live, that we will have such a capital market if one of the key institutions, which is precisely the revision and credibility of this revision, is not clearly defined in the law. Surely this law we had so far needed some changes. That is why the National Assembly in its previous composition also went after him and tried to fix these things. When we received a proposal for a third-reading law at the time of our government, we reviewed this matter on an expert basis and concluded that all 37 amendments were necessary. Due to procedural difficulties, we were unable to present them all, we sent them to the National Assembly, asking that the law, as it was, be rejected and that after a rapid procedure, the National Assembly should undertake an analysis of this view, which we have had on this issue and we still have. I think that the law that we need not only to harmonise our legislation on the European field and those things that we have committed ourselves to, and which require us to follow these guidelines in a consistent manner - is the eighth guideline - that this is not only because of them, but because of us, we need to examine and analyse this wisely. The law before us today does not solve these questions. As a colleague of the Social Democratic Group has already clearly indicated, we propose that this be rejected and that the National Assembly take some time, and it would be wise to apply the principle of 'festina Lente' here, in a hurry, because this is crucial. The ambiguities in this law are obvious, and some mistrust of our own profession is also established. Injaz, I ask you to listen to this invitation, to review this law again and to finally enact such an institution that will give the Slovenian economy credibility that is not yet in place. And it's not like we're pointing fingers at one or the other. The fact is, we all have to adapt to new times. And believe me, it is impossible, it is impossible for us to expect that we will indeed have such a boom in the domestic capital market if we do not assure all our citizens and citizens and also the foreigners who will operate here in the future, the credibility of our institutions. The independence of the professional approach must be ensured. It is true that in some countries there are the same principles as they have here so far. I now turn to the issue of control. But in such a limited area as Slovenia, where we have about 45 houses, "pr revue" is a very questionable thing. We need to think carefully if the time has not come, that we will have different control over the institutions which, on behalf of the State, will verify that they will actually be able to do so. There have been too many strange things in our area, especially the capital market, where things happen, when people do not finally have credible information about the situation of our companies. Auditing is crucial to the development of our economy. Please, we will not vote for this because we cannot do this in good news, but we ask all of you to give ourselves this time to take a serious look at what the professional amendments to this proposal were and which, due to procedural problems and everything we had in the middle of the summer in the Slovenian political space, did not really have time to study as we would have liked. Therefore, Nova Slovenija cannot support this law, but asks the National Assembly and all colleagues to be professionally defined in this regard, including with regard to the 37 amendments proposed by the Government at the end of August. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Any other leaders of the parliamentary groups would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. I have not received written applications for the debate, so I ask if anyone wants a word. Please. Please, Mr. Squirrel!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow me a brief performance, which is in fact a matter that can touch on the business procedure in this law. To avoid a misunderstanding, I would like to draw attention to the last paragraph of the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy - something probably does not. If he holds the second paragraph in the report, then he can't hold the last paragraph. The second paragraph reads: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia replaces the text of the proposed revision law with the above proposal. Sent by letter [[and then there's the number]] ".. On this occasion, I do not go into this "by pass", i.e. the replacement of any legal matter in any treatment, and especially in the third, if I do not go into a dispute of such a procedure, I point out the last paragraph: "A brief introductory explanation of the proposed text was given by the Minister of Finance, who stressed" - he stressed that he knew what he was saying - "that the text of the legislative proposal under consideration, the speedy procedure", the rapid procedure "which the Government had submitted on 28.8.2000 in its previous composition, and was withdrawn from the procedure on 22.12.2000, has not changed significantly". Has anything been removed from the procedure and what speedy procedure? So, this question needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Perhaps just on this issue, Dr. Sponik would be stopped for a moment and asked for an opinion from our Law Service, the Secretariat of Law. The chairman of the committee is here. Can't I see him? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u13	If I may pass. Although the secretariat is not directly authorised under the Rules of Procedure alone, only an explanation can be given. The text of the law, which the government, I will say, in its previous composition, submitted to the National Assembly after a rapid procedure, was withdrawn by the new government. Thus, in the course of the procedure, the text, which the Government, even in its previous composition, proposed to the national assembly not to accept. All amendments were also withdrawn to that text, leaving the text ready for the third hearing in the National Assembly. This text contained a multitude of technical errors and only these technical errors were corrected in this text by a technical rather than a substantive replacement. So that we are now confronted with the basic text of this law, as follows from the second consideration that has already been made in the previous composition of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you. Who wants a word, please? I find that there is no particular interest in the debate. Procedurally, please, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Even after what I have noticed so far, even though I am not dealing with it, it is clear that this is a procedurally totally unacceptable practice, I think, a business unacceptable practice. For this reason, I do not believe that the National Assembly should allow itself to work contrary to the Rules of Procedure in this reference at the beginning of its operation. Therefore, I propose that we stop this discussion, that we meet, today or once again, the Rules of Procedure Commission and that we have a clear position on this; only then can we continue. Personally, I find this to be an unacceptable procedure, what the government has allowed to send to circulation. And I am also surprised to see Mrs Bitenchev that, now that she has allowed such business and procedural discounts in the new appointment process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you. I would also ask the chairman of the committee if he could explain what the position on the committee itself was on this procedural issue, which, of course, is also substantive.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In a brief introduction, I said that these questions had been raised on the Committee, but from what the Secretariat had considered and from taking into account all the amendments adopted in the second reading, it was more than evident that the law which the National Assembly had brought into this stage of the adoption of the law, where there were no substantive amendments that would suggest that anything was wrong with this law. The Committee's assessment was that such a law should also be adopted in order to comply with European legislation itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Formally, I have no proposal. We have only heard different debates, I have not received a formal proposal. So please also a representative of the government, then a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u19	Just enough to explain. This replacement of the text, which is in fact only a replacement of the text which was made because it was scanned for publication in the Rapporteur - and the scanner, sometimes because it was not in electronic form, changes "o-j" to "zero", which can also be seen from the publication in the Rapporteur - the government received from the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy a letter from the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Willi Trofenik, on 12 December 2000 saying: "I inform you that the expert service of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy in reviewing the text of the draft law on auditing submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 24.8.2000 in the third reading, found that the text presented contains a series of verbal and technical errors which, due to the lack of clarity of the text, could lead to complications in the content of the proposed law. In view of the above, I ask you to replace the proposed legal text with a new text of the draft law on revision - third reading." And that is exactly what has been done, and if you compare the text that has been submitted with the text submitted for third reading and published in the Rapporteur in which this first proposal was published, i.e. in Rapporteur No. 74/2000, you will see that the text differs only after these errors have been made, when the scans have changed to zero and so on. And absolutely nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you. Now, if I understand the procedure correctly, the third reading may or may not accept the matter. Mr Jerovsk's proposal was, however, because it was not clearly designed to withdraw somehow. Please, if you can do it again, take into account the explanation of the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u21	Even after these explanations and after what has been written, as Mr Podobnik has already pointed out, I believe that the matter is not so simple and that we cannot go arbitrarily through. I also think that the Secretariat, with sufficient consistency to the government, is interpreting the whole matter, and I therefore once again propose that the point should be suspended, that the Rules of Procedure Commission meet and that it should give an opinion on whether the conditions for the law to be taken forward in such a form are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u22	It's a complicated matter, procedurally. I suggest a 15 - minute break or a rejuvenation. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! On the screen we see the number 70, but we see that there is a difference between the electronic state and the actual state. Who'd have thought there were so few people in their 70s. Now that I see from here that some of the colleagues are gone, and their cards are inserted into this slot, I fear that this is a problem that will accompany us for a while, until we get used to it when we go out of the hall to take the card out. That would also seem to be the rule of new rules of procedure. Well, while we're trying to reconcile the actual situation with the electronics, I'd like to say this. We have now found that there is a possibility, however, that there are some inconsistencies in the text proposed in the third reading, and in order not to make a serious mistake, so that we can avoid any problems and readings later, propose a procedural conclusion that we stop the item today and continue it on Tuesday at two. However, the reasons for this proposal are clear. In order to examine in peace both the government and the proposers, whether it is a mere editorial change or a substantive one. This cannot be established in 15 minutes, so I propose this procedural decision. Can we please vote on this procedural decision? Please, let's vote on the procedural decision. Let's find out who's here! [[60 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] The procedural decision shall be adopted. We continue this on Tuesday at 2 p.m. We also moved point 4 to Tuesday, as is known, due to the absence of the proposer. And that's how we move on to 5. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Statistics. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. Does the government want a word? Mr. Banovac, Director, Mr. Banovac. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u24	Your Honor! It is a so-called European law, which we must prepare as a change to the existing law, mainly because of the negotiating points in which it has been promised that we will do so this year. The fundamental reason for this change is mainly that in the European Member States of the Union, or that it binds the content of the statistical surveys of reception and determines the government, and this is very practical. In our current regulation, this was a Parliament. As you know, we had major problems mainly because of the dynamics of change. The dynamics of change are extremely large in order to bring the Union closer. The monetary and other arrangements they are building actually require of us things that we cannot always carry to Parliament, so that this change was necessary and suggested. Otherwise, I would not say anything more substantively, except that as a proposal we agree with the amendments of the parent committee, and as far as you get on the bench, I think, or otherwise, the withdrawal of government amendments, which are two, one is editorial, and one is procedural error. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Banovac. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Please, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u26	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There was no debate on the whole bill on the committee, but we noticed on the committee that the government had made a mistake when it gave the text in which it cited two words in Article 8 which were not adopted in the second reading amendment, that is, 'between itself'. Therefore, the government withdrew these two words from the draft text and the Committee, instead of these two words, made its amendment, which means that the election of the President of the Council is now precisely specified in the law. The situation now is that the President of the Public Service Council is also the director of this institution, which we know is incorrect. However, if this amendment is confirmed, the current regulation provides that the President of the Council, the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, shall be elected from among themselves by the members of the Council. I would kindly ask you to support this amendment and also to support the entire State Statistics Act on behalf of the Committee. By doing so, however, a green light has been given so that in the following year we can carry out a census of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. Who wants a word, please? [[Nobody.]] Since there are no debaters, I am closing the debate and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. The amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport was tabled in the bill [[is recorded in the report of the Committee]] . I am putting an amendment to Article 8 into the debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 8. Let's find out who's here! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have now completed the vote on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendment violates the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. No, you say. That is why we are moving to a full vote on the law. So we are voting on the bill as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[61 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. Period of the day - Third defense of the bill of application of the residence. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. Does the government want a word? There's no sign of a government representative. It is a little strange that there is no representative of the government, so I would suggest that we skip this moment, and I ask the representative, the rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee, who has considered this proposal of the law as a parent labour force to report on it. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[Not at all.]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups, anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. Who among the Members and Members wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Well, it would be nice if the government representatives would come to the meeting when the items are on the agenda. I take it the government doesn't want a word. There is no debate between Members and Members. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I now note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law within the time limits of business, and I ask the secretariat for legislation on the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure if they have any comments. [[No, no, ……]] Good. I propose that we vote on the proposal as a whole. We're picking up the presence! [[62 Members and Members.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on autorism and related rights - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and we are beginning the first hearing. Does the government want a word? Please. Mr. Andrej Piano, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The current law on copyright and related rights entered into force in 1995. The purpose of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements is, in particular, to align with the threshold of the European Community or more precisely, to incorporate into the Slovenian law the provisions of the Directives which were adopted after the entry into force of the Slovenian Law and to make certain minor amendments or editorial changes. However, the proposed amendments to the law only mean more effective protection of copyright and related rights. The international legal acts taken into account in the novel are: a directive of the European Community on the permanent protection of audio-visual works; a directive of the European Community on databases; a directive of the European Community on conditional access; and two contracts of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, namely the Treaty on the Copyright of World Organisations and the Treaty on Implementation and Phonograms. It is proposed that the law be adopted quickly. Article 68 of the European Association Agreement, which was established last February 1st, requires the protection of intellectual property rights or copyright in Slovenia, to which these rights belong, at a level similar to that of the community. This provision requires a rapid alignment of Slovenian copyright with the new Directives of the European Community which have been adopted following the entry into force of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Slovenia has also committed itself to harmonising its legislation as soon as possible in negotiations with the European Community. [[...]] It is true that the area of intellectual property law is the subject of negotiations under the so-called company law and these negotiations are provisionally concluded. The proposed amendments to the law, at least in the text proposed by the Government, are without prejudice to the provisions of the law which are now at issue before the Constitutional Court. In fact, against the provisions of the law which have been adopted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u29	Excuse me, Mr. Piano, for interrupting. I would ask, on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, that the President maintain order and discipline or something that the most lively Members would somehow take into account and show a little more respect for the interpretation that we are just listening to, and of course for the person. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me say it again for a second. In preparing the amendment, the proposer did not submit to those provisions of the law which are pending before the Constitutional Court for a legal review. These are disputes brought by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and concern in particular provisions relating to collective organisations or the manner in which tariffs are accepted. Given the material itself, it must be said that we expect the new Information Society Directive to be adopted in a short time, so that this law is likely to need to be amended again within at least two, three years. However, some experience will also have to be taken into account in these changes. Of course, it depends on how the Constitutional Court decides on these initiatives. Mr. President, I'm asking for your help. Am I already giving the government's views on the amendments that have been tabled, or will this be in the course of the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u31	I propose that, when we go from the amendment to the amendment, if necessary, we give appropriate explanations that we may not spend any time in advance, because of course it is valuable. So I would ask if I could make individual amendments, if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, too. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. Reporter, please. Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u34	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and Members. The Committee has adopted a law which is in the procedure, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, by making amendments to it in the form of amendments only which are editorial in nature and which are the result of what the Secretariat of our National Assembly has proposed not to be harmonised in the legislative text. However, more debates were held not on the bill tabled, but on the basic law - this is on the copyright law - where the procedure is fast, so individual groups or interested public could invest and open the law also on articles that are not in the amendments and additions to the law that we are considering today. We had two types of hearings on the committee. The first referred to those articles which were being processed by the Constitutional Court. In fact, individuals have made an assessment on individual articles of the basic law as to whether these articles are constitutional or not. The Committee, by a majority of votes, decided not to open with additional additions those articles which are now under the Constitutional Court's review. In fact, if the National Assembly, with these amendments and additions, has changed these articles, then what is at the Constitutional Court is irrelevant and the Committee for these Articles has done so to support the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Assembly that these articles, as recorded, are in accordance with the Constitution, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also given these articles an opinion on the Constitutional Court that these articles are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That was the first line. We didn't accept such amendments on the board. As far as I can see, the pope's board meetings were subsequently tabled and you'll probably be talking about them. The second thing that is likely to fuel the passion was the proposal of the Council of State presented by Councilman Polde Bibič, namely, the following. For the second time, Polde Bibič has advocated on the Committee that in the exercise of public borrowing rights, this is Article 36 of the basic law, which is not in the procedure today, amend paragraph 1 of the second paragraph, which reads as follows: "The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not apply to the use of originals or copies of written works in public libraries." Which means that when public libraries rent books, they don't pay any extra fees to authors, but they pay for borrowing other book materials like turntables like video records like CDs and so on. The opinions were that these things would not be shared in public libraries and would therefore be replaced by the words "written works" in article 36, with the words "Library works", which means that public libraries would then be exempt from public borrowing duties in all other cases. This is the amendment of the committee, which is probably most likely to be discussed when we adopt this law. I would like to say that the board rejected this because they said, "If we're going to borrow other things now, it's going to be in addition to books, CDs and the like, someone will copy this stuff at home and then they'll be able to sell it on the black market." However, this claim on broken legs is also due to the fact that someone who wants to reproduce it in large quantities is the minimum cost to pay this loan to the library where it is borrowed and then photocopying. That's pretty much it. I would like to ask you to support the amendments proposed by the Committee; for others that have been tabled subsequently when the Committee was no longer sitting, it will show public debate and government, how and what. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups, anyone want a word? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I also note that no one has applied in writing for the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I would like to draw your attention to the material involved. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. That proposal shall be put to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. Here we have material dated 25.1.2001, and this is a review of the amendments tabled to the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on copyright and related rights. I am putting forward an amendment to Articles 2 and 2 in the debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] No one wants to discuss this amendment, so I am putting an amendment to Article 2. This amendment reads: "The second sentence of the new third paragraph becomes a new fourth paragraph." We're voting. Presence! [[68 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on Article 2 as a whole. We therefore vote on Article 2 in full. Presence! [[68 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. I'm moving on to the next amendment, this is the new article 6.a. The proposer is the Committee for Education, Culture, Youth, Science and Sport. Who wants to discuss it? Does the government want a representative to do that?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has addressed all these amendments at a correspondence meeting and has comments and opposes the amendment for a new Article 6a. According to the government, this new article reduces the level of copyright in Slovenia. Of course, the amendment is opposed by authors such as authors, real contractors, phonogram manufacturers, as well as SAZAS, which represents composers and authors. With your permission, Mr President, I would like to give the floor to Dr. Trumpuz, who is the expert leader in the drafting of the law, who will explain precisely and professionally the views of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Trumpuz to explain briefly and transparently to us what this difference is between what the Committee is proposing and, of course, the reasons given by the Government. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you, for your word. My name is Dr. Miha Trumpuž and I deal with copyright issues and advise the government. So, what's the point of the problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u39	Excuse me. A little closer or, above all, you must not keep the paper in between Now I don't know, it seems that you have decided to set some rules, which is also possible in this House, but because it sounds bad, Mr Trumpuz sitting will make this presentation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The essence of Article 36 is to regulate the right of public lending in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u41	Excuse me, can't you hear me? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u42	I'll talk louder. The essence of Article 36 of the Law, which is not in the amendment to this procedure, is to regulate the right of public lending in public libraries. The copyright doctrine in this respect distinguishes different materials, says that the authors do not receive special payments or special compensations for them, while in the case of phonograms they apply for compensation. Why does that make a difference? I'll tell you about the case. If I borrow a book in the public library, I'll probably just read it at home, but I won't copy it. People don't have photocopiers at home or anything. But if I'm going to borrow a CD with singers, classical music or anything else, it's very easy to download this record or a tape tape at home. And in this, those who defend the rights of authors see a great danger that all those who borrow phonograms can easily reproduce these phonograms at home. It's not about selling it anymore. The point is that it is possible for everyone at home to copy the tablet without buying it, and thus the interests of the authors are affected. And secondly, by commercially borrowing phonograms and video cassette deals with a special branch, a special activity called phonotechs and videos. With the proposed amendment, it could be that a library would compete with video and phonetec activities. These are the main points, so in 1995, when the law was adopted, Article 36 was formulated in such a way as to achieve some balance between the various media or various authors. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word, please? From Members and Members? Please. Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u44	Yes, thank you very much. Because it's kind of a historical story. I mean, I'd like to explain to this well-respected council a little bit of the genetics contained in this article, which was actually the author of you. At the first reading and second, the National Assembly received an article on the table in approximately the form proposed now and as proposed by the Committee of the National Assembly. In fact, it is a possibility of legal fact or the reality of the moment that lasts in Slovenia and refers to all public libraries and not only public education libraries, but all libraries that have the possibility of borrowing. These are also special libraries, central technical library, national, university, special social and so on. Libraries have so far tried in every way possible and according to institutions that have the capacity to pay all the copyright contributions that have been requested so far. I think that they have invested quite a lot of effort and energy, that they have also come to some of the results of the first contracts - in particular, with one collective organisation such as SAZAS. There were many coordinations, including certain round tables, and at all these public hearings and divisives we tried to say and show that Slovenian public libraries were not supposed to be an exception because in all European libraries and in all world libraries these types of materials are being borrowed. With regard to the main argument put forward at the time, in 1995, if I am not mistaken when the fundamental law on copyright and related rights was dealt with in the third reading, a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the amendment was submitted to the public libraries to jeopardise competition, as well as a private initiative in the area of video and phonogram lending. At that time, we actually launched the whole process and found out what the proportion of the threat to competition is. Because once it's settled and it's said that you're threatening someone, you just have to tell them what segment you're in and how much you're in danger of this competition. However, as certain instruments are available to calculate the extent to which this competitiveness is at risk, it has been established on the basis of different criteria that this is a segment 1 to 4%. This is said to be true in this area, competition is not at risk in any segment. Therefore, on behalf of the public education libraries and other libraries, I propose that the National Assembly of the proposed additions to the Committee be adopted, as they do not jeopardise the exercise of copyright in any segment, but in particular do not jeopardise competition in the area of audio-visual borrowing. Since libraries are not actually profitable institutions and institutions, they are non-profit, as most are also registered as public establishments; secondly, they do not market, they charge solely for embezzlement and not for leasing. Also, the content of the material they borrow cannot be compared with the content and variety of the choice in private rentals. So I ask that the State assembly take these arguments into account and decide on amendments to the Committee on Culture, Youth and Education if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I understand a colleague who has also faced a problem in practice, which might now be easier to see when this option, prepared by this amendment, has been eliminated; in short, when the possibility of paying for the author's compensation for phonogram, music, microfilm and other rentals in public libraries has been withdrawn. However, I would point to something that could be very dangerous in such a rapid intervention or unprepared interference with a law that is currently dealing with a completely different matter, which is European legislation. Let me remind you, if I go back a little bit in history, that the 1992 European Directive on this issue allows every country and its internal logic to regulate the way in which the compensation for copyright is paid. Slovenia, I think very rightly, decided in 1995 to, I will say, protect the copyright of authors in the field of written works when it was exempt from borrowing in public and other libraries of payment to libraries in a way that introduced so-called library compensation. What they know is, say, German states in the form of library tantime, or American countries that know this in direct payment of copyright to authors. In short, we played different models, obviously, in Slovenia at this time and decided on the Scandinavian model, where we are faced with the so-called library compensation provided by the state from its library budget of about 180 million tolars - I think this sum is still and is actually going to help authors in one other form. [[...]] It's not a payout for an author's fee, it's an aid for the author's work in the future, some kind of subsidy. If we had decided to vote on Article 36 as proposed by this amendment, we would certainly have done something wrong to those authors who do not have this library or any other substitute. Although in some ways we know that assistance to authors of non-commercial works - after all, in libraries we encounter non-commercial works, they are also stimulated by aid and subsidies, but not by the name of a so-called compensation. I think it would be much more thoughtful if these things were considered earlier, especially with the authors. Because: let's face it, today we will only decide in terms of one interest, but not in terms of the interest of collective organisations or authors. Let me also tell you what the real situation is in paying out or in contractual links to libraries, since the general educational libraries in Slovenia - we have 60 general educational libraries in Slovenia. Of these, it has concluded a contract with SAZAS, which represents these copyrights, only 28 libraries, and it is eight thousand, eight tolars a year. Thank you very much. Eight thousand tolars are paid by the public education library in 28 cases to compensate authors for their phonogram, in short, music and other works. It can be that this price can change once and that this has also been the purpose. But if we remove this, then we should first provide another solution to protect the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much for explaining. Mrs. Montenegro signed up first and then Dr. Gaber. Yes, please, Dr. Gaber, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In fact, I propose that we remain in line with the supplement proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education and the whole address and that, in the debate that we will have very soon here on the State budget and on the Ministry of Culture, we provide these strong money that needs to be provided in order to compensate, to cover what we deny the authors with this arrangement. To put it another way: I would like such a compensation to be introduced in this area if necessary. I would like to point out, however, that the question of democratising the use of these media we are talking about has already gone on to such an extent that I fear that we are not imagining very well, how everything is used and what those who produce it offer themselves in electronic form today. If we sit at home with our contemporaries together for two hours, it will become quite clear to us. So, I will certainly support the Committee's complement, and I propose that we do so, but that we make compensation in some meaningful form within the Ministry of Culture for authors, as long as it is necessary. It's not like we're bothering libraries with strong procedures that don't bring anybody anything. Twenty-eight times 8,000 was also an extraordinary fortune, I'm afraid for the authors.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I want to do it now because I was somehow challenged. Otherwise, I do not have the feeling that this topic and treatment would be dealt with in one haste and haste, because this has been devoted quite a lot of space and time at different levels, including within the Office for the Protection of Intellectual Property and the Agency. And our opinions and opinions of all other public libraries have also been made public many times. Once again, I would like to say that the aim of this national assembly is to regulate matters. The result of this article was that it initiated a visit to public libraries - not only general education, but also to other inspection services. Furthermore, as a result, it was felt that the directors of these public institutions, of course, were also in court and that the epilogue of all these hearings in court was as follows: that some were convicted, others were not; some complained and others did not. It is up to us to process the system in an integrated manner and simply, if possible, to prevent any conflict or ambiguity with the legal norm. And by formulating this issue in this way, as suggested by the committee itself, I think that we will sort things out and clear things up at one stage. However, the question of the authorial and library tantime in libraries remains, which can be further broken down and supplemented and more specifically defined by the law and regulations. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If there are no more debates and debaters, I conclude the debate and suggest we move on to a decision. I shall put to the vote a new Article 6a in the text as it is written. Let's find out who's here! [[67 present.]] [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the next amendment, this is the amendment to Article 7. The proposer shall be the Committee on Culture, Education and so on. [[...]] Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Please, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u52	Mr Vice-President, before voting on behalf of the Group of Members, I request a 15-minute recess for the Group of Members to consult on further decisions, given the fact that an amendment which the Government opposes has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 1:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask, if we can judge, first to determine the presence of this card problem, which we have had several times today, if it is possible to look at how many of us there are. [[60 present.]] Good. We're moving on to the session. I ask Mr. Sponik to express his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you also for giving us the business opportunity to consult in the parliamentary group. We're [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Of course, we all have a few comments on this and I think that we would have committed a possible one offence, I don't know, but until this technical matter is settled, we would have allowed the sitting, if it wouldn't hurt anyone individually, or that of course we would have come closer. Now, of course, it's true, as you've already noticed, as we've all noticed together, that if some people talk, it sounds good, but the slightly higher ones, of course, have to lean a little bit in such a case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you for your advice. Is that better? I may have made a mistake earlier because I put the paper right in front of the microphone, but there's also this technical detail. At that time, when the Group of Members consulted, we all received the government's position on the amendments tabled today at the correspondence meeting. It would have been better if we had them on the bench earlier. In the parliamentary group, we will support the amendment to Article 7 - the applicant is a working body - and we will also continue to support all the amendments proposed by the working body and the government does not oppose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Podobnik. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 7? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since there is no further discussion, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please. Presence! [[67 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 7 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Let's find out who's here! [[70 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to the next amendment, this is the new article 9.a. The proposed article is Mr Samo Bevk, the government, as we see from the material, completely opposes this. Who wants a word? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will withdraw the amendment to Article 9a and - not to be mistaken - Article 21 because both articles of the basic law adopted in 1995 - or have already been judged before the Constitutional Court and I am almost certain that there will be a change in these two articles or that those who oppose them will experience a change in the Constitutional Court. Well, with the amendment to Article 20, I'll insist.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. So, the new 9a Article and the new 21st Article - if we understand each other correctly, Mr Bevk - are withdrawn. Thank you. We can proceed. The amendment to Article 12 is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. The amendment government supports it. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I suggest we go to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 12 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[69 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted Article 12. The new Article 19a is due. This Article shall be proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. The government supports this amendment as we see from this material. Who wants to discuss Article 19a? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[68 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Therefore, I note that the amendment has been adopted, thus also a new Article 19a. And we're moving on to Article 20. The amendment to Article 20 was drafted by Mr Only Bevk. He wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! I think that the proposaler was not necessary to introduce this amendment in this law because it is a matter of coordination with European legislation. I do not see anywhere in all the justification for Article 20 what kind of directive would require this amendment. In fact, if we look at the 147th Article of the 1995 Basic Law, this article sets out where collective exercise of copyright is permitted and where 13 points are taxed. The proposaler, by inserting the word "especially" and thus the first forecasting sentence, reads: "The collective exercise of copyright is permissible only with regard to the works already published and in particular" - this is the proposal of this basic amendment, which is in law, and "in the following cases", and then there are these 13 points. If we were to write the word "especially" as proposed by the proposer, then the permissibility of collective exercise of copyright would not apply only to those 13 tax-listed points, but, in essence, to the will of a collective organisation exercising copyright. If this word were "especially" then we should specify more precisely what cases this is about, so that I wonder if all of these 13 points should be listed in taxis, if all of them are allowed at all. That is why I think it would be right to support my amendment, despite the fact that the proposaler disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. We can see from the material that the government does not support or fully oppose. I continue to open the debate. Please, who wants a word on this? Dr. trampoose, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. And I apologize for continuing to sit down because I want you to hear each other's voice. With regard to collective enforcement, I would like to point out that collective enforcement is not a bad thing. It is essentially a form of exploitation of works of copyright, which is very helpful to users. Users may, in particular, arrange for the mass exploitation of works of copyright in one place whatever is necessary in relation to the exploitation or use of rights. So that we are afraid of the spread of collective enforcement or of Pan's cases of collective enforcement is not justified. Reverse: collective enforcement is - of course, if it works properly and if everyone adheres to the law - something that is useful for users and also for authors, of course. Since, as I mentioned, the user, for example, can manage all rights in one place with a collective organisation of hotelists or a association of craftsmen using radio equipment and the like. The second argument for extending this list is the practice in the world. In the world, collective enforcement is spreading. Doctrine predicts that once copyright or copyright will be exercised only collectively because it will be most practical, massive and will help both parties. You mentioned the European Union. We have received several questions why we are taxing cases when collective enforcement is possible. They don't know this in Europe, but they leave opportunities open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Dr. Trump. Anyone else want a word, please? Since there is no further debate, I conclude and propose that we vote on the amendment tabled. Presence! [[70 present.]] [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now we have to vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the 20th whole. So we're voting on Article 20. Presence! [[71 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that Article 20 has been adopted. With that, we exhausted the amendments because there were no other amendments. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. Since there is no further debate, we will put to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting, please! Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are going to vote on the title of the law. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law - we have seen which ones not to list. If they now wish to submit an amendment to this article, including the title of the law, qualified applicants, please do so. In the meantime, I am asking whether anyone wants to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] I also note that no amendments have been tabled at this time. So there were no amendments, no one wants to discuss it. I now ask, on the basis of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Let's find out who's here! [[71 present.]] [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE FITOFARMAL FUNDS LEGISLATION, QUITE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. We're starting our first hearing. Government officials are already here. Do government representatives want a word? [[They want to.]] Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u65	Your Honor! The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has drawn up a system law to regulate the field of plant protection products, which will replace the existing 1994 plant health law in the work relating to plant protection products. The proposed law is, of course, part of the package of so-called European laws, which is why we are also proposing a rapid process of adoption in the National Assembly. Of course, the law is technical and is also inter-sectorally coordinated. Let me briefly explain the content of the law. The proposed law will fully regulate the registration, transport, use and control of traffic and the use of plant protection products. The proposed law ensures the uniformity of the registration procedure and the correctness of the supervised use of plant protection products, which, of course, must be justified by their procedure of use. The use of plant protection products in a way that would lead to excessive pollution of the environment, pollution of neighbouring land and waters is not allowed. The law also explicitly prohibits the use of aircraft for the application of plant protection products. The transport of plant protection products may be carried out only by legal and natural persons who comply with the conditions laid down and are registered in the register of legal and natural persons with the competent authority. This means that an individual and legal person who is not registered for the purpose of carrying out these operations must not import or place them on the market. The proposed law also regulates traffic in plant protection products applications, namely certification of new installations and their regular inspection every two years. And something else about control. The competent authority for plant protection products and plant protection products in the Republic of Slovenia will be the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Plant Protection and Seeding at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. However, the implementation of the provisions of this Act will be monitored by an agricultural, phytosanitary and health inspection. Your Honor, please accept the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Juban!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At several meetings, the Committee adopted a decision on the plant protection products law and, following the conclusion of the general discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where it said that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food supported the treatment and adoption of the law on plant protection products by means of a rapid procedure. A number of amendments have been tabled by the Committee and amendments, which have been appropriate, have also been accepted and have been reviewed. Following this conclusion, it adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a plant protection product law be considered and adopted in a rapid manner, together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which it supports. The Committee also adopted an additional decision authorising the State assembly to carry out drafting corrections to the text when preparing the final text, in accordance with the comments made at the Committee's meeting. In fact, on page 5 of the reports on this law you have some warnings from the secretariat at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In terms of these warnings, we are preparing two amendments that would remedy the text in terms of harmonisation or, if necessary, another one that will be subsequently tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Yes, please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would simply ask the representatives of the Government or the proposer of this law whether the law also regulates the area of small users of these plant protection products, in particular in this respect: we know that certain plant protection products have a deadline for use when these deadlines expire, with small users the residues of these substances remain. Is it defined or is it defined how these things are collected now - that is to say, the remnants to which the deadline has elapsed - and how destruction takes place, whether it is left to every user, as it is found. We know that certain plant protection products include poisons in different categories and classes and that these may be environmentally harmful substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We can ask for the government's response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u71	The honourable Member, this area that you have highlighted, is governed by regulations from the work area of the second Ministry, namely the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u73	I am hardly satisfied with such a response because it was initially presented as a systemic law. And if it's a system law, then let's systematically regulate the use and traffic of plant protection products, not partial, according to the resort that we just determined it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you. Who else wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] Since there is no further discussion, I conclude. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it [[This is the same conclusion as previously adopted, procedural nature]] . We vote on that decision. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of material, this is a review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a plant protection product law, second in the context of a rapid procedure, of 25.1.2001. As we see, the amendments are quite considerable, so I suggest we go straight to the first amendment, this is the amendment to Article 1. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 1. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants a word, we can move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. To be perfectly clear: by Article 1, we have point 1 and point 2, these are two amendments. We are now voting on point 1, which is the first amendment to Article 1. Let's find out who's here! [[62 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now going to the second amendment to Article 1. Who wants to discuss the second amendment to Article 1? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the second amendment to Article 1. Presence! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on the whole Article 1. Let's vote, please. Presence! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 2. And here's a whole series of amendments, if we can find out there's five of them. We'll go in the order they're written. Of course, in the debate, we would give everything at once so that we do not waste time. So all five amendments to Article 2 are put to the debate. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I propose that we move to the vote as we have done before. We will vote on each individual amendment to Article 2 and then on the whole. Thank you very much. Since there is no debate, we are just going to the first amendment to Article 2. Let's vote please. Presence! [[62 present.]] [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 2. Let's vote. Presence! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Third Amendment to Article 2. Let's vote, please. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We're voting on the fourth amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the fourth amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the fifth amendment to Article 2. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the fifth amendment has also been adopted. We are now voting on Article 2 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 3. We only have one amendment here. The proposer is the government. Who wants to discuss this amendment? No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We're moving to the vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 5. We have proposed three amendments to Article 5. We will go forward in order to discuss all three amendments in full. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 5. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 5. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. And the third amendment to Article 5. Let's vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The third amendment has also been adopted. We are now voting on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 6. We have two amendments. If you follow all together, you see that the first amendment below is written: the withdrawal of the amendment is announced. There's something you should say about this. I'd like a representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u75	A well-respected choir. The government withdraws the first amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-26-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u76	The government withdraws the first amendment to Article 6, leaving the second. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on this amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are still voting on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] So Article 6 was adopted. Article 8 is next. We only have one amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 8. Let's vote. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We're moving on to Section 9. We have two amendments here. I am opening a debate on both amendments to Article 9. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the first amendment to Article 9. Let's vote, please! Presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The first amendment was adopted. We are voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on Article 9 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] Article 9 is adopted. We're moving on to Article 13. Here we have an amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The amendment is linked to the amendment to the Government's amendment under order number two. The second amendment of the government is an amendment to the government's amendment. Here is the proposer of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Then there is the third amendment of the government, the fourth is also proposed by the government, and the fifth is proposed by the committee. I propose that we open the debate in full. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Closing the debate We're moving to the vote. As we can see, there are five amendments. We will vote in kind. The first amendment to Article 13. We're voting, please! Presence! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We vote on the third amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We move to a vote on the fourth amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the fourth amendment has been adopted. We still vote on the fifth amendment. Let's find out who's here! [[64 present.]] [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can now vote on Article 13 as a whole. Let's find out who's here! [[63 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we have also adopted Article 13. It's almost 2:00 p.m., so I'm adjourning the second session of the National Assembly. We will continue our work on Tuesday, at 2 p.m., with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, this is with the proposal of the revision law, and then with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is with the proposal of the plant protection product law, then we will continue with the 4th item, which we have moved from the agenda today, if it is prepared with the 9th item, then with the 11th item and so on. Thank you very much!
