ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Bogdan Barovič, Dušan Vučko, Leopold Grošelj, Maria Possonec, Yuri Malovrej, Ivan Bozič, Andrej Fabjan for the start of the session, Janez Podobnik for the start of the session, Bogomir Vnučec, Franc Kangler, Roman Jakič, Dorian Maršič, Miran Jerič for the afternoon part of the session, Matjaž Švagan for the afternoon part of the session, Ciril Pucko, Milan Kopušar from 17:00 p.m., Geza Juban for the start of the session and Majda Širca for the afternoon part of the session. Your Honor! We will be taking a look at the presence, so I ask my colleagues and colleagues who have not yet joined us in the hall to join us. It's 10:10. I respectfully ask you to insert the cards, because we will determine the presence. I'm picking up the presence! There are 44 Members and Members present, which means that on the first determination of the presence in the Chamber it is found that the State Assembly is inconclusive and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I redefine the presence. Please again, fellows, who have come to the hall this moment and have not yet inserted your cards to do so. I'm rediscovering the presence! There are 47 Members and Members present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. Today's continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a decision on the consideration of the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits, and then we will move on to the consideration of the remaining points in order. So we're going to move on to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say, a proposal for a decision in relation to the defence of the draft law on the protection of the elderly and the social benefits, another defense. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? President Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. By law on parental protection and family benefits, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by published text in 18. To the rapporteur from 2000, somehow the procedural path has dragged on for a very long time and has intertwined through various approaches. The conclusion was that, in the second reading, the law remained at the halfway point of the hearing in the National Assembly when the term of office expired. It was a complete dilemma to continue dealing with the law. Therefore, the work force of the mother, namely the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, decided to place the item on the agenda at the 6th regular session and to discuss it. We have decided, somehow unanimously, that it is best, given the basis given by our Rules of Procedure on the continuity of the work of the National Assembly, that this Assembly in this reference has somehow begun to have full effect or with full powers to deal with the law in the second reading in such a content as has been proposed. Thus, qualified applicants may, in view of the possible different view that the current qualified applicants have on an individual article or content, begin to modify this content in Article 1 and beyond. The same applies to the government. We have therefore decided and adopted a decision proposed in the following content to confirm the National Assembly: at the 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly, consideration of the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits is given, secondly, in the text as published in the Rapporteur. 18/2000. This essentially means that we begin to examine the law in the second reading procedure with Article 1 as submitted to the National Assembly in this Rapporteur. In practice, this also means that all amendments that have been adopted and tabled are irrelevant and may be summarized by the individual qualified proposer, according to the content desired. In any event, it would be right to start the above-mentioned law in the first reading or article 1 in the second reading and to define the whole substance of the law in the second reading will also be the mother’s working body. The Committee proposes a decision to endorse the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Government representatives will join us in a few minutes after the announcement. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you are, Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much for taking the floor. In the Social Democratic Party, we certainly support the early inclusion on the agenda as well as the consideration of this proposal of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. However, in order to avoid any misunderstandings, we have a purely formal and commercial interest in how it is possible, since this law was adopted at the second reading at the last meeting of the previous reference and there has been the adoption of certain articles and certain amendments, up to 61. It is true that there was a suspension of the work here at the time, and now we are in a different composition, but I think that these were legitimate and legal decisions taken. It is hard to imagine now that we would repeat these decisions and somehow erase them, as if they were not, even if I had correctly understood the Chairman of the Health Committee, they would have been taken as irrelevant and would have gone into a re-decision because the composition of the National Assembly was different. I believe that, because of the continuity of the work of the National Assembly, all the decisions taken by the previous call are fully valid, legitimate and a new reference to work, where the old reference and the old composition of the National Assembly have ceased to work. This is the opinion of our parliamentary group We would, of course, like a certain clarification by procedure, both business and probably the secretariats for legislation, on this matter. Once again, we are committed to moving forward and adopting this law as soon as possible because it systematically interferes with family policy. However, we want this to be done in an corrective and, of course, commercially acceptable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. If, Mr Vizjak, you agree, I would like to give the floor to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and then ask the representative of the secretariat to respond to your dilemmas. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Drobnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, we would also like to give an opinion on the further consideration of this law. This law is fundamental to family policy. We well know that it is almost 10 years ago, as we adopted a resolution on family policy, and with a large majority that consensus has been reached, and this law means implementation. We have examined this law more precisely, and I must say that even with the amendments tabled, which were confirmed at the time of the previous composition of the National Assembly, there has been an improvement in the legislative text, which is why our view is that this consideration should continue. We hope, of course, that this level achieved, both on the content side and in compliance, will not be broken by any unnecessary or unharmonised amendments. However, I would support the opinion or the dilemmas and questions raised by the previous speaker that the Secretariat for Law should give its opinion in order to avoid any further shadow of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a decision which, according to our information, has been drawn up unanimously and proposed by the Home Committee. We know that a professional question has also been raised before the adoption of this Decision, following which procedure, in cases where the second treatment of the law is to be carried out, simplified, by half and decisions taken in the previous term in respect of certain articles should possibly apply to certain articles, and new decisions should be taken in the home working body, whether the procedure or not, from one article onward. And we know of the notification he has given us, to all Members and Members, that in this case it is the right of the parent working body to decide whether to take into account the decisions already taken by the competent working body from the previous call of the national assembly or to decide whether to discuss the law from the first article forward. We know that it was a common decision on the working body to discuss it further from the first article of the law. We think it's a smart decision. We know that the concept of the law can only be built as a whole, but not that half the concept of the law is built by one group, half another, because then there can also be mutually inconsistent solutions, especially since we have a procedural option in the third reading to amend the articles of the law that have been amended in the second reading. We are therefore convinced that, due to the content and concept of the law, it is only wise and prudent to consider the text, as the second reading was presented, in full and that the possibility of submitting amendments to the government and to individual Members and Members is jointly supported, because there would be no amendments, but those who had been tabled before six months or even more, would also create a strange system in deciding on a particular, very important issue. Finally, we think that such a procedure as proposed by the mother's working body can be done more qualitatively and more quickly, with significantly less complex and open issues than if we decided to go after half the decisions taken, and in the second half, new ones, because there would be urgent inconsistencies and solutions that could probably not be rectified. We therefore support the proposal for a decision, and we believe that its adoption will allow for some kind of necessary law to be adopted, and we agree here on how much the law on parental protection and family benefits is needed, and it begins to be decided more intensively and adopted in the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In our parliamentary group, two months ago, when we passed an intervention law on the height of a child's allowance, a matter which is an integral part of the Parenthood Act, we found that it was necessary to move as soon as possible the procedure from a delay that occurred in the previous term in the consideration of this law. In view of all the chronology accompanying this law, this law was practically second-handled by two governments, each withdrawing its amendments and replacing them with new ones, thus changing the concept or structure of the content also through the treatment of the parent body, of which I was also a member at the time, that the whole process was somehow more or less accompanied by a brake and therefore remained under consideration at the plenary session in half. From this point of view, in the Group of Members, we considered that, in view of all the developments surrounding this law, it would be far more appropriate for the full responsibility of the law to begin to treat this mandate as a whole. Since it may be very difficult, in essence, to build a somewhat different view of the law in the conceptual sense of the current government, that is to say, a third government, then in the first part of the law in the third reading, if now, from half of the law, a somewhat conceptual matter is to be changed, it can also be because of a different view of the new Members. All I can say is that, in view of all the starting points that are based on the fact that we have already spoken with the drafter of the law during this time, I strongly support the initiation of a second reading procedure with Article 1 as published in Rapporteur 18/2000, including the government amendments. What the current government will do with its amendments, whether it will accept them or upgrade them in some way, is to approach the matter of the law. But I do know that this mandate is completely autonomous, autonomous and can continue to be continued. That is to say, we can now decide by this decision that we take responsibility for this law, to the fullest extent, in all its contents, from the first paragraph forward, to the best of our ability to accept, then, in the third reading, that we may not be able to change certain conceptual or substantive matters in the third reading, otherwise than perhaps with some major issue of compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we certainly support this decision and we also want to participate actively in a committee which will place this law at its 7th regular session immediately after the conclusion of this plenary session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Since no member group would like to present its opinion again, I would like to ask the representative of the secretariat to answer the questions raised by the two groups on the legal definition of this issue. Mrs. Beatenchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u12	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. A respected choir! We have already faced, in some cases, the question of how to define ourselves until decisions are taken in legislative procedures that have not been completed and adopted by the previous composition of the National Assembly. We have found that the rules in force on this issue do not explicitly provide that, although the Rules of Procedure itself do give rise to a principle of continuity of treatment, we have considered that it is a matter for the competent working body to determine how to deal with matters in such cases in the new composition of the national assembly or possibly with the relevant decisions or decisions of the national assembly to determine the relationship to the decisions already taken at a particular stage but not completed as a whole. In fact, we believe that the National Assembly, on the basis of a proposal from the working body, is, in a sense, autonomous to lay down the rules by which it will proceed to the consideration of unfinished matters under the previous mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has entered the debate in writing, I limit the debate to five minutes. Who wants to discuss it? Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Jerovšek, I apologize, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Brejc has raised his hand and I obviously did not understand this sign. [[...]] Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Well, it is undeniable that the government or ruling coalition has decided to amend certain provisions of the law. What surprises me is what I heard here today. First of all, Mr Potræ spoke about the differences in concepts, the conceptual differences in the law. Mr Brenčič said something similar in his vague discussion. I wonder if then what you voted for until 61st in relation to this law was merely a pre-election gesture by your parties or were you serious at the time. If there are conceptual differences, it would be right to say what these conceptual differences are. What makes the decision of the National Assembly of the previous term no longer good is no longer acceptable, it is no longer conceptually appropriate. Both discussers, who explained to us why it was necessary to do so, remained at some general level. I ask both of you if you can explain to the National Assembly why it is necessary to start again with Article 1. For if there are no substantive reasons or if we do not hear them, man can create the impression that it is just another maneuver and a stallion. I hope that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am also surprised at the proposal that amendments already adopted in Parliament, which had a full mandate and whose Members had a full mandate, should now be cancelled. We must absolutely stick to the continuity of treatment. For the first time, this is more rational. Secondly, I am very opposed to taking the legitimacy of previous Members of Parliament. I think that they have made a substantive and legitimate decision and that the National Assembly should not afford to deny the work of the previous reference in this way. Here I was surprised, or I expected someone from the ruling coalition to mention another argument, why they decided to state that they had agreed to do so in a coalition agreement. We have seen more of these cases in this term. But I'm against us using shortcuts in legal matters. We should be aware of all legal consequences. Indeed, strict respect for business standards is the key or the maximum that this National Assembly must take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Because, of course, Comrade Brejc has also highlighted my mediocre reasoning, I would say so. Like the autonomous government, whose minister was Dr. Brejc, this National Assembly is also autonomous. And Mr Brejc has decided that the amendments of the previous governments, which have already begun to face the labour force, would be replaced with new ones, which is perfectly logical. So, in the concept of the law, he found that perhaps something in the structure of parental policy could be set differently, perhaps more appropriate time, or in view of the needs of families more appropriate time. Thus, it is also now possible, when we begin the procedure in full, autonomously, as a national assembly, to place certain substantive changes in a different way. Whether they are confirmed or not is a matter for Members. We're autonomous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Brace, then he's got the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u20	I'm just finding that I didn't get an answer to the question, what are those substantive things in the marriage? That is what I am asking Mr Brenčič, and also Mr Ptræ. It'll probably be easier if I ask the government. What are those substantive things that we need to start again? But maybe there's only so many of those 61 articles that need to be changed, I don't know, 5, 6, 10 articles, and we're just going to go after those, and it's going to go faster. I'm not suggesting anything but thinking in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. In addition to this substantive dilemma, if there is, of course, there is, nevertheless, at least for me, a dilemma as to how to deal with the amendments that have been adopted. If the amendments were adopted, those who were, of course, in this procedure, are procedurally applicable. This means that they should also be withdrawn after the procedure, which, of course, requires the National Assembly to continue its work where the previous term of office has ended. The work carried out by the previous National Assembly and carried out legally and legitimately cannot simply be deleted past the current procedure. That's what I was gonna ask. Of course, it is an autonomous body to take over certain acts, this also says in the Rules of Procedure, for what has not yet been adopted either the whole act or something similar to take over the mother body of the proposal. Here was my question and I also agree with my fellow Member of the Social Democratic Party. I would therefore ask once again for an answer, a clear answer, what to do with the amendments that have been adopted regularly. We have a chance of withdrawing them and canceling them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to talk anymore. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I really expect, President, that we will get some answers to these questions raised, including in terms of Mr Brejc's question, which I fully agree with. If we have even started talking about two concepts, I am very interested in what the government is going to do with these first 61 articles. Whether to make a practical conceptual change, or whether it's about, I don't know, minor corrections, maybe it's even an improvement. If that's it, we're no longer in a dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. They might want government representatives who have joined us to give us an answer. Mrs. Jasna Majcen, counselor. Alenka Kovsca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u26	I would just like to explain the following. The proposals to be drawn up by the Government will, of course, take into account the previous debate in their content. I think that even if the second reading process starts from the beginning, there is no reason why both the opposition and the position propose the solutions that are most appropriate. So also those that have already been discussed in the original composition. That is why I do not think that we are restricting space, but that we are giving this House space to make conscious decisions about the entire text of the law and its individual parts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u28	In view of all these concerns, however, I would ask Mrs Bitenchev once again to explain whether there is any other body in this country that may repeal or in this case repeal the amendments, other than the Constitutional Court. We can fix them in the next reading, and we have this option. However, to cancel them, then we took into our hands the powers of a completely different body, a completely different branch of power with exceptional possibilities, exceptional powers, but not in this matter. I would therefore like to ask for a serious legal approach to this matter, not to determine the relationship in any way, but to do so. In this case, lawyers must be so many interpreters of the rules of procedure and legislation that they do not bow to coalition intentions; they must be independent and autonomous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u30	I note that neither the chairman of the committee nor the government representative have answered the question I have asked. Obviously, I don't know, he doesn't want to answer the question of what conceptual differences he had in mind. And I'd really like to ask, Mr. Potch, if you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Brejc, look, the committee of the National Assembly is not a bill-maker and its president cannot therefore be based on this decision on a content where the conceptual approach is different from the law I know. So I can't tell you what's changed in the concept. However, I know that the whole series of articles, up to 62, has not been amended and that given that the law was born in 1998 and 1997 it is also necessary to put some of the subsidy-setting items at a new level in view of the increase in the cost of living. In this case, of course, this content needs to be corrected so that we can do this in the third reading of the Rules of Procedure for, I don't know, x.a Article, x.b Article and so on, which is a little annoying. I therefore also considered that the Committee, with 16 votes in favour and without objection, supported this decision, by which this National Assembly essentially adopts the law, as published in the Rapporteur, at the same time as the government's amendments. We can't give a different explanation than the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tina Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. As regards the interference with the decisions taken by the National Assembly, it is clear, of course, that it is a Constitutional Court in the case of completed proceedings. In the context of the adoption procedure, however, the National Assembly itself shall intervene in its decision if it considers that the grounds for this are laid down, in terms of direct business grounds or as regards the amendments adopted. It is no longer possible to withdraw, but it is possible that, while there are no obstacles, explicit business arrangements are not that the National Assembly, with some definition in a different procedure in effect in some sense, does not in some way cancel, but exceeds, or not as irrelevant, the decisions in the context of the unfinished second phase of the previous mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you. I'm not going to define myself to content, I'm going to define a purely procedural matter. However, we have made certain decisions, we have completed that proposal however we have, what content they have been. We got there by about 60. It was a decision. That was just another reading. Of course, I may understand the puzzling current ruling majority that it may not agree with this content. But let them say it clearly. What we are doing now, however, is that in the second reading we are changing what we have already accepted, and I think that we can define calm souls under the category that this is to some extent a violation of the rules of procedure. Gentlemen! What you're doing would be exactly the same and more elegant. It would be more elegant to tell us, as already mentioned, that the new government had a slightly different approach, which it does. I would say that this content that has been adopted is not pleasing to us, and we will withdraw this law. I agree because I have heard a representative of the secretariat before, and I also know what it says, when it is possible to withdraw and when it is not. But we would be in exactly the same violation of the rules of procedure as we would now say, but at least the solution would be elegant to withdraw this law and get it with a new content in another form in Parliament. It would be exactly the same violation of the rules of procedure. It doesn't matter if there's a breach of the rules of procedure in one small matter or one big one. It doesn't matter. Therefore, it would be more elegant for you to admit it and say that we do it, perhaps even with less effort or less waste of time, we would finally understand you. We are essentially cancelling what we adopted in the previous term. It doesn't matter which Member we are or were in that composition. This is to be respected. No government, no parliament can say what they have adopted in the previous term, that is none of our business. This is irrelevant to us. We have other conceptual approaches, we have different views, and so we will cancel that and we will simply come with other receptions. What was adopted was adopted. And that's what I was talking about. I'm not talking about content that much. I think it's more than clear. Let's at least have more elegant solutions. If we're breaking the rules of procedure, let's make it a more elegant solution. That's not a normal approach. We have also had such discussions in the previous term. The ruling majority can do whatever they want. And, of course, it's lit up with legitimacy. Of course, if this is normal by other values, it is something completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, allow me just an explanation. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure that you have mentioned - allow me to explain to you article 180: "Proposer of the bill," in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia "may propose the withdrawal of the law until the end of the second hearing. The withdrawal proposal shall be decided by the National Assembly." What you said if the law were withdrawn to break the rules of procedure, that's not true. The government could withdraw the law, the National Assembly would decide to withdraw, and that would be no violation of the rules of procedure. Only so much to explain because you said that if the bill had been withdrawn, there would be a breach of the rules of procedure again. That wouldn't be true. That's all I need to explain. You want to replicate? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u38	No, it's not a replica. I'd just like to fill you in. I also said it would be a more elegant solution, which I still say it is. And that is exactly what I want to say to you: withdraw the law and say that you have other conceptual approaches; no matter what they are, because we will see them when you pass a new law. Not that you're going to cancel what's already been adopted in the National Assembly. That was the basic content I was going to say. So once again, remove the law, and the matter will be elegant, as it is called! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u40	I allow the possibility that I may not have understood all things precisely, but I think that the debate opened by the opposition is very important for the procedure for the adoption of laws. I also find it extremely unusual that we should essentially return part of the debate to the beginning. So that would mean, let's say, a law would be adopted, let's say, in the second treatment, up to half, and then something would happen and we would start it again from the beginning of the second treatment. The usual solutions that have been used by Parliament so far during mandates or at divergent stages have been different. One is the withdrawal of laws from the procedure - it was just a speech - the other is, if we consider the third treatment, the possibility of the law returning to the first hearing. What would seem correct to me in this respect today is that, at any rate, the government or any of the authorised applicants, if they wish to continue at the starting points that they were, at the same time disregard those adopted amendments, to propose the return of the law to the first reading. I don't know if that's still possible at this point; it's most fitting to do so in setting the agenda. However, the second possible solution, which I think is silly, would not be used for the first time in this House, but rather to respond from the point on which it has already been voted on and then be resolved in the third reading. What the parental committee has proposed is quite an incomprehensible solution to me, and I do not remember ever having Parliament decide on anything like this. From this point of view, I find it problematic that this has failed the committee and that this is what the assembly is facing now. If the Home Committee does not see the precise basis in the Rules of Procedure for such determination, then I think it is more reasonable, Madam Vice-President, that we should stop this point at this point, we should also call on the Second and Mother Committee to base this decision in the Rules of Procedure, so that we are not unduly embarrassed by this here. The decisions that a person proposes, whether it is a parent committee or it is an individual Member or a government, must, in my opinion, be universally justified. I see no reason for all Members then to deal with what they would do, how they would do it. We had a similar case, for example, with that decision on who and how to control the privatisation of state property when we lost countless hours because something was adopted and groundless. My proposal would be to put an end to this point, to call on the parental committee to also justify this business and then to move on with things. It seems irresponsible to me that we are now looking for solutions here, and the parental committee says arbitrarily, we have done our part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. If I may sum it up before I give my word to Mr Brenčič, this is your procedural proposal. If you would allow a procedural proposal first, if you would also allow Mr Školč, I would add that the Rules of Procedure Commission is the one who, in this case, would also explain to the Secretariat that there is no regulation of such a case in the Rules of Procedure and that, under the powers conferred on the Rules of Procedure Commission, it is empowered to deliver opinions in cases not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. That is how I feel if, by supplementing your procedural proposal, Mr Školč, you agree with me that, as long as your proposal is accepted, we will suspend the session until the Rules of Procedure Commission is defined on this issue. Let's stop this point, not the meeting, this point. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u42	Of course, I have no objection to such additions to the proposal, but I think it would be more appropriate to call only on the parent committee to consider its own business aspects. Since everyone who proposes has to be my point, make sure it's also procedurally possible. If this is not possible, of course he has the opportunity to call the business commission again. But I allow us to call both commissions, but then it may happen to us that the parental committee, which it is, let me say, cook, wait for the business commission to prepare a solution. I don't think that's right until the law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me. I think that Mrs Tina Bitenc said earlier, Mr Školč, that the existing rules of procedure do not regulate this type of regulation. My assessment is that if we call on our mother's working body to identify ourselves for these businesses, we are actually putting them in trouble because they have been linked to the opinion of the secretariat in their decision-making. Mrs. Bitenc, did I understand you correctly? Can you help us out here?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u44	Madam Vice President! Initially, we have somehow taken a stand on some other issues as well, that this competent working body is the one that will also decide on procedural issues. However, if there are certain business issues which are unclear, it is clear by the Rules of Procedure who gives an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. If we wanted it, of course, it is a business commission which would then draw up such an opinion if it were a more fundamental question concerning the interpretations outside the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Since Mr Školč, who seems to be the only one called for universally founded man, somehow qualified that the Committee of the National Health Council had not consulted, consulted and cooked the matter. It has to be said that this is not the case, Mr. Scholch. We have been interviewing for quite some time, including with the secretariat, in view of the specific situation that took place in the previous National Assembly, because there is no business basis for a law to break up in the middle of the procedure when Parliament broke down. In view of the continuity given by the Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly, the new National Assembly will decide how it will proceed. He could continue on the articles where he remained, or he would decide, depending on his autonomy, that the law would be in that procedure which he considered as a whole. In view of all the chronology accompanying this law, I said that practically three times the amendments from the basic proposer of the law had been amended, so we considered that the only acceptable thing, given that we did not have any business justification, how to proceed and who should cut it down, leave it to the national assembly to decide and that, by a decision proposed by the mother's working body, the national assembly decided that the law should be treated in the second reading as it had been submitted by the proposer and published in the Rapporteur. This is said, throughout the text as contained by the Rapporteur, including amendments. Unlike the chairman of the committee or the working body, I can't even act. It may also act differently by the proposer; it may also act by a different Member. I think that, Mr Školč, you have proposed a matter, and if the National Assembly agrees, we will only take the path you are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Školč has made a procedural proposal to end this point until the mother's working body has been redefined on the matter. Do you insist on this procedural proposal, Mr Školč? [[Yeah.]] In such a content as I have said, the mother's working body is redefined to this problem. Would you like to add? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u48	I will explain once again: to clarify the procedural aspect of this proposal, nothing else. Of course, I accept and I think there is nothing wrong with your complementary proposal to be assisted by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The parent working body shall be determined to the content, the Rules of Procedure Commission shall be designated to the procedures. It is likely that the mother's working body can only decide and call for the assistance of the Rules of Procedure Commission. I am putting Mr Školč's procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 17 votes against 34. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the procedural proposal for the termination of this agenda item and for the re-examination of the parent working body has not been adopted. That is why we are continuing the debate. First of all, Mrs Silva Montenegro has the floor, unless you have a procedural proposal, Mr Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u50	I'm sorry. My voicemail's not working. I therefore propose to re-vote. The device doesn't work, so let the experts see what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u51	What did you see, Mr. Tiny, yes? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u52	It didn't blink. Even though I re-entered the card, the device did not respond. I suggest we re-vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u53	Okay. Now it's working, the pulse, so don't ask us to check it out? Does it work? [[It's not working.]] I'm adjourning the session for five minutes to review. I'm sorry. [[...]] I propose that the vote on Mr Školč's procedural proposal be repeated. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 16. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the National Assembly has decided to repeat the vote. Once again, I am putting to the vote Mr Školč's procedural decision to stop this point until we redefine the parent working body before the proposal of our decision. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. There were 23 votes against 32. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the procedural decision has not been adopted. That's why we keep going. Mr Petan has a procedural proposal. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I don't think it would be necessary to have a little more respect for each other. Look. My procedural proposal will go this way, as we have pointed out before. Then I'll have to justify it. I propose that the Rules of Procedure Commission define this - this can be very fast. Let's just cut off the point, this will also be my proposal, without interrupting the entire session as we discussed earlier. I'll get to the bottom of this. I agree that all cases or any complications that may arise in this Chamber must not be entered in the Rules of Procedure. That's perfectly clear. On the other hand, it is true that we do have a number of cases that can and can be taken into account. In this case, we have two elegant solutions. These two solutions are: or, one, Madam Vice-President, you have already read to me that it is possible to withdraw and the other to return to the beginning of the debate of this law. Both solutions are in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure, both of which are described. I think that life needs to be adapted so that we can adapt to what is already being defined, which is possible to do. I don't think we're going to be completely wrong and everything will be fine. But there will always be a shadow of doubt about what we've been doing. Just because it is not described in the Rules of Procedure does not mean that it is possible to do so because we have other solutions that are possible. I therefore propose that the Rules of Procedure Commission be defined in a procedural manner. For the time being, let's stop this point, skip it, or whatever we call it. This can be very fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The vote is not the same, Mr. Anderlich, please pay attention. [[...]] Before that, it was suggested that he return to his mother's working body. I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal of Mr Petan, namely that the National Assembly should end by addressing this item on the agenda until the Rules of Procedure Commission is defined on a question which is at issue - this is a question of the principle of the continuity of the handling of individual matters. I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 33. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that Mr Petan's procedural proposal has not been adopted either, so we are continuing the debate. Ms Silva Črnugelj entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u56	Although I was going to replicate Mr. Skolcz and now the matter is irrelevant, given that the matter has become as entangled as it is. However, I can say that life brings different situations. We have seen in the National Assembly that there have been countless situations which have not been sufficiently clearly defined in the Rules of Procedure. It is very difficult to expect that everything will be defined in the Rules of Procedure. However, the procedure must be respected. The Committee has debated this situation for a very long time, because it is just one rare situation that the law was interrupted somehow in half and we have also requested the opinion of the secretariat, and we have unanimously all of us in the committee, precisely all of us, have determined that we will put the law into a second reading, that is to say from the beginning. The main guide for everyone on the Committee was that, while there are a large number of Members who have been re-elected, there are also a number of Members who are for the first time in the National Assembly and are, of course, deprived of the opportunity to discuss all these Articles. That is why we have decided to give all Members the same opportunity to discuss all the articles from the outset. Just so much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. This only disturbs me as a procedural and business subject. From this point of view, Mrs Montenegro does not even discuss procedural matters, nor does it replicate, but does it vote. But it's more important to me that we talk about these things than we don't. As for this committee decision, allow me to express my opinion on this. Of course, I think that from the analogies that we can draw on decision-making at second reading, the decision is entirely wrong, unacceptable and controversial with the rules of procedure. It is only possible to repeat the vote on the things that someone says he has made a mistake or that there was a circumstance that he could not vote. If the Committee has decided to continue the second reading, it is difficult to leave the part of the second reading which has already been carried out with this justification for the new mandate. In this case, there has already been a debate on the Committee and hypothetically no new debate on the Committee would even be necessary. That's one of the possible explanations. If there had been a new debate on the Committee, because there would also be new amendments, it is not possible to ignore the decisions on those articles and on those amendments which have already been decided. This is not true that the Rules of Procedure do not refer to decision-making at second reading. This is very precise and, in this context, I think procedurally problematic, otherwise, the arbitrary decision to start the second debate, and the complete decision is controversial. From this point of view, of course, I think it's a decision, I'll say, a mistake. But I'm not going to ask you to judge the business commission. But I'm afraid it would be hard to ignore all the things I've been talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. So, the prefaces, Mrs Črnugljeva and Mr Školč, have already said a lot. So, I agree with Mrs Crnugljev, of course, because, after all, I have said before her that not everything is possible under the rules of procedure, but certain solutions, which are good, are written down, written down and, of course, we can use them. That's why I haven't noticed a solution like this anywhere, and you've confirmed it to others. However, we have the solution to return to the first reading. However, we have this solution in our Rules of Procedure and I do not know why we avoid what is stated in the Rules of Procedure and we are voicing what is not in the Rules of Procedure. We're wasting our time. But at the final stage, I think we probably won't be able to come to a solution sooner if we insist on what's commercially controversial for me. However, if we were to go in the direction of finding a solution, as already defined in the Rules of Procedure, which also seemed likely to have been more normal for the applicants at that time, and probably today, just to get back to the beginning of the hearing. Let us now let it withdraw; let it remain in the procedure and return to the first hearing and we will probably be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we will not cancel what we once accepted in a strange way that is not defined anywhere, but then we can really ask ourselves whether or not we are in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Someone says there's nothing written down anywhere. But just because there's nothing written down doesn't mean we can do it. This is another way of life, perhaps even a criminal code does not define everything that we cannot, and what we cannot do to anyone is probably contrary to the law. There's something like that. We have a solution that only needs to be followed and respected. That's it. I will not ask for another procedural proposal, I will not make it, and I will not define it, because I think that if we were willing in this national assembly to respect some of the standards that we have adopted ourselves, we are already exhausted and I do not want to tire you again. If she's not in the mood, she's not in the mood. You can also accept that today it is cloudy or dark or whatever you want, but we will probably have to stay with it, otherwise we will have to eat it and say: yes, you have a majority and you can accept whatever you want. This is one of the typical cases, and after all, I don't understand you because it's just about goodwill. If we had shown a little good faith, we would probably have gone forward and the matter would have been resolved at the same time. Butne, you just don't show a little good will, that feeling that you just have so many voices anymore, maybe you--I don't know if it makes you tired, or if it's so encouraging that you can have a feeling that you can do whatever you want. It bothers me, not the other. The content may not even be that problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u62	Indeed, the original sin of this problem is somewhere else, namely that, four years ago and even at the beginning of this mandate, we took together some incomprehensible arrangement, namely the principle of continuity. That's something I've been fighting for a long time, and I think in this case it's been particularly harmful. In fact, this is where we met the problem of what to do with the laws that have already been in procedure and that have already put some stage through. Mr Petan, the principle definition was adopted at the beginning of the mandate, and it is also agreed that those laws that the proponents sum up, and we have set even a time limit by which they must be summarised to be in the procedure, let it be Members, let it be the government, and then, from that stage forward where the procedure has taken place, things are being dealt with. A very specific case and the only case of all hundred and more laws is this law. Why? That's because we came up with a discussion of a certain article and, of course, the amendments. And because Members and the Government can determine up to some procedure before or at first reading or second reading to make amendments, or thirdly to re- table amendments if the law has been amended in the second reading. I myself understand the decision of the Committee in the way that Members have found that, after several articles have been dealt with and adopted by certain amendments or not, which have been proposed, they cannot bring things together in the law below to a regime which could also be consistent to the end. Of course, it can also be said that this is being corrected in the third reading. Yes, you can! But I think it's more prudent to start looking at the second treatment, that is, from that treatment that was concluded. However, the first hearing was concluded and the second was not yet concluded. And that it continues from the stage of the completed hearing, which means that the possibilities for amendments are opened to both the government and Members who are defined to the basic text or to all amendments that are on the bench. As I said at the outset, and I hope that in the new rules of procedure we will arrange things that are not half done; or, I will say, a group or even individual Members - we now have, for example, such cases that some Members have sought to sign under certain laws - because those Members are no longer - or to hold back the procedure, or to settle a completely separate problem or something else. These are things where I think they really need to be regulated in the new rules of procedure and these dilemmas will fall away. I understand the Members' wish to participate in this law at a stage when concrete solutions are being developed. For it is indisputable that we all agree that the law on parenting is necessarily adopted and that the basic starting points adopted at first reading are acceptable for the majority. So for the opposition, so for the position. However, there are some things that will obviously need to be arranged in the second and third readings, so that things will be consistent with the content, in view of the guidelines that we have already adopted in the past in this area, and of course they will also be material indicators and, after all, bearable in such a way that this can also be done. At this point, I am not talking about the substantive issues, rights and so on, nor about the money that should be allocated to the budget every year under this law. But what I'm talking about is that it makes sense to me that all Members of Parliament who are new have the opportunity to form a law from that consideration forward where they can have a real impact. But I think it's real at this point from the first reading. If, of course, I understand the committee that it agreed that the law is just right, it is a proper basis and it is imperative that we make it in as much as possible - tolerable as possible, as soon as possible, to replace some other laws, so here we have a phase, for example, "stamped". And that's why I don't think it's any of this stuff when you say: it's will, it's will, it's not will, and so on. It's the board's decision 16:0 that this path would be the right one, because - yeah 16:I read zero in the report or they said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan first and then Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u64	Mr Anderlič, I fully agree with the content of your debate that this National Assembly is sovereign and that it is making a decision, but it must take its decisions, which are alternatives, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. And this is what I have mentioned: how this second debate continues, how it continues properly, not to violate the rules of procedure. What to do with the amendments and the articles that have been amended by procedure and have been accepted? That was my dilemma. The alternative under the rules of procedure is: return to the first reading or continuation of the second debate. Since we have all been Members in favour of the continuation of the second debate, given that a high degree of consensus has also been reached in the previous composition, it is clear, of course, that this debate is continuing. And if the government or the ruling position has a significantly different direction now than it had before the year before, before the elections, that this is a completely different direction, then let it go in a different direction. So that we know what this direction is and that people will know what this direction is different. Let's be clear and pour pure wine to people. Once again, because a high level of consensus has been reached, as the law continues to be well established, this has happened. Of course, I also agreed on the committee to continue, but I am not in favour of contributing to the violation of the procedures that have been adopted by ourselves, and this is the rules of procedure. That's what I'm talking about! What to do with those 60 articles that have been amended or have been adopted in other readings, what to do with these amendments so that we do not violate the rules of procedure? I speak extremely neutrally. So there will be no shadow of doubt. This was my intention not to be denied by anyone that we were illegal in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Did you want a replica? Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u66	Look, Mr. Drobnic, there is certainly no business basis for any continuity in laws - there is no. She's not here! What we are doing with these laws, which we continue from previous mandates, is a decision at the beginning of the mandate and you do not have anywhere to find the basis in the Rules of Procedure for a law to be drawn from a mandate. From this point of view, of course, I suppose that when - but once again - I stress: 100 and a few laws is the only case that we are dealing with, you say, 60 articles or 60 amendments have occurred. Therefore, it was a dilemma to continue this procedure. The other laws were not a dilemma because the assembly had adopted a decision at the beginning of the mandate on what it would do with the laws that had been tabled in the previous reference. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Drobnič, is this to be said. There's no talking about the laws of the previous term! We will have to settle this in the new rules of procedure, indeed. Really! It is true, however, that any law which is in the procedure and which is summarised in this mandate is dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which apply from, say, the second stage forward, or the third phase forward, or from the first stage forward, nothing else. Here's this specification, now: admitted it or not admitted it. I suppose there will be nothing but redefining, of course, now other Members to the amendments that have been tabled, and several new amendments will be tabled. Maybe he'll be removed. That's all. Because it is logical that you, who are members of this committee, firstly, then the assembly defines to the amendments to all the laws, from the first to the last. Not that you say, "Yes, but that's what they've done." Now I don't know, maybe I don't know which amendments were adopted, which were rejected. [[...]] I would assume that, for example, these amendments, which are accepted, answer you and therefore you think: for the question of what will then happen at the assembly. But they'll be rejected if they are. But it doesn't make sense if we can work out a matter in such a way that the committee prepares the law so that it's consistent, acceptable to, say, the whole assembly. That's the only question, and I don't intend to politicize much more myself. The secretariat said: the mother's working body is the one that is defined for these matters, it has been identified and proposed to the assembly. Just as the congregation has accepted for all other cases, it has not specifically addressed this. For if the committee had checked at that time, I would probably have said, "What about this law?" But the congregation said only: all the laws that continue in procedure are those that have a condition and so on. This remained in a strange state, and so now this decision has come about, or a few months later, to be treated in this way. And this is indeed with the rules of procedure in a way that we would do things, it is difficult to explain, and even consistent, it is really impossible to deal with. For then they would say, For a second treatment. What about those amendments that have been dealt with and those that have not? Therefore, Members should also have the opportunity to make amendments in the second reading. What, are we just going to put the amendments forward from Article 60? It's not okay. Is the government allowed to make amendments or can't give amendments? They must not be given in this context. And it's a third government, not a second government. The second was the one in which we discussed this at the convention, and the third was the one now dealing with this law. And this government must also have this opportunity in this reading to do so. That's what I understand. For all things, because I may have been unclear before, the third reading cannot be corrected if there were no corresponding amendments, let us say, up to the 60th article, which has been tabled so far. Therefore, of course, it is very clear here that it is the content of the matter, that it is the right thing to do and that it is really your prisoner, that you understand that it is not a conspiracy, but that it is a matter for this matter to be handled properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Tiny, then Mr. Petan. Mr Petan first has a replica of Mr Anderlich's previous implementation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I think we agree on the content. However, the approach to how we will resolve this is completely different. I was afraid when I saw Mr Anderlich raise his hand earlier, not now, and that he would say something about the rules of procedure. And that's exactly what happened. He himself said that this was one specific case; for example, he mentioned some 100 laws that went into this mold. I don't mean to hold you to that, but I think it's a good case. And this is the one and only case that comes out. I fully agree with this, and it is therefore irrelevant that one such specific case should be said that something will have to be defined in the new Rules of Procedure, because it does not say so or is not defined in the present. It's perfectly normal. If this is indeed an exceptional specific case, why should this be all defined in the Rules of Procedure, but if we have solutions that are quite broad and in such a case we can somehow collapse this solution into these flows. But there's something I don't understand about Mr. Anderlich that bothers him with the continuity of this legal procedure. This is what we are talking about in Parliament now. After all, the problem has only arisen in those where there are fellow Members, where the Member is not in the new composition as a candidate. Perhaps Mr Anderlič does not think that the government would, for example, be, even if it is, or even if it is, different by political definition, if it sends a law to Parliament, then with the new composition it is all annulled. I don't think we can afford to do that, because then, look at how many of these things we should do differently! Seems a little weird to me. Of course, if most people are going to decide that, then that's the way it is. But I wanted to say the following. Because of this case, which we have not yet encountered, why should we therefore define new solutions in the rules of procedure, but if we can also solve this with existing solutions - with existing ones, it is said, for cases that are more majority, we can also solve this. And then I'll tell you how I picture it. You yourself have said that when we do what is proposed to return to the beginning of the second reading, we will be able to define ourselves to the proposals of the amendments of the government, Members and I do not know who else, including the committee, if a qualified proposer. And I ask you, why don't we do it as defined in the Rules of Procedure? Like, for the most part, let's go back to the first reading. I am sure that if we returned to the first hearing, we would hardly lose words about the first part of the first reading in order to have a broad debate because we have already discussed, but we would have settled the business issue. We should have no bad conscience that we have introduced a new precedent that we can even benefit from in the following cases. That's what this is about! However, if we do not introduce this to benefit from the solutions that are defined, then the matter goes through normally, and it does not matter whether we change just one article or one part of the article. That is to say, if we are doing this, then it means, as Mr Anderlich mentioned, that in the third reading we cannot essentially change everything - of course not! Of course not, but if this fear is already announced, it means that the concept is in fact completely different and that we already have in mind that we will change everything to a new one. I don't mind at all, let's just arrange this in accordance with the existing rules of procedure that we have, and not always say: we will have to write some solutions in the new rules of procedure that are not now resolved. Come on, we have two elegant proposals that resolve the matter, and there is no need to introduce some precedents that will become after analogy and will be able to serve as possible to play the rules of procedure until, of course, this famous new rules of procedure, which will have to define all of this, and we may run into something else when the rules of procedure are adopted. What, are we going to keep changing the rules of procedure because we have some rare cases that we don't want to include in the majority solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. That your performance would not be misunderstood. The claim that it is possible, given that this law is in the middle of the second hearing, to return it without problem to the first reading - this claim is not true, because the assembly may decide to return to the first hearing before the second hearing begins; which means, for this particular case, if the national assembly proposes a decision by the home working body, then it may be decided, before the second hearing begins, to return the first hearing. That's technically possible. At the moment, however, the National Assembly has no other option than I think that we can actually conclude now that only the parent working body of the business provision is in the desire to be respected, respected by guidance, taken into account, and that there was an indisputable conclusion, however, that the National Assembly is autonomous in its decision-making in such cases, which are not precisely defined in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we would ask that, if we could end the debate, we should just finish and continue our work. Do you still want to replicate? Mr. Petan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you. Well, it's not that many replicas, maybe someone can tell me that I'm using this, but well, I could say a replica. I thank you for this supplement you gave to make it easier to understand. But that's all I'd like to say, because I didn't see the willingness to do it, so that we could start by accepting it as a first reading. That's why I said it. In this context, I think so, because if we were already here to define my proposal to return to the first reading, then we would know exactly what the procedure is. That's what this is about. So I can see when such or other solutions can be taken, but I do not see this willingness to go to a purely business solution. Otherwise, thank you for the addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, a replica of Mr. Anderlich. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u72	The replica of the part where Anderlič claims that by the end of the mandate of the National Assembly, that is, the composition of the matter to cease and it needs to be reopened. I don't know this practice in the world. Well, that's a little unusual. Procedures shall continue and the Rules of Procedure shall provide for cases where there is no longer a proposer, as is the case in this case. To satisfy, then, the normal procedure first. I don't know what it would be like for every government in Italy to re-adopt a law on the protection of the Slovenians in a new session. The previous procedure would always be cancelled and then again from the first hearing. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure clearly define in cases where there is no proposer, but then, of course, it is possible to return, in accordance with the rules of procedure, etc. That's possible. Otherwise, it would mean that all the laws tabled in the procedure: introduced, in the first reading, before the first reading, would at all simply be terminated after the end of the national assembly itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, the replica. Take it out!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u74	It's just an explanation, because it's a misstatement. It is also typical of Italy that this law you spoke of was introduced in each mandate individually and again, because they do not know the principle of continuity. Many countries don't know it. They don't know the principle of continuity. From my point of view - I explained - also, for example, unacceptable continuity precisely because of all these complications. Such an example has been repeated in two mandates and can only be repeated at the beginning of the mandate. It can't happen again at any time. Once again, at the beginning of the mandate, we have adopted a decision to deal with all the laws that bear bearers. And of course, we did not specifically address this case. We have not dealt specifically with this case, and we are now facing it. In accordance with the rules of procedure, as proposed by the Committee, it is possible to resolve. If we're talking about the rules of procedure. In any event, it will be necessary to vote again once and then, however it may be.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much. A brief replica of my colleague Petan. Look, any proposal that's here would be "discussortable" whether it's business clean or not. The proposal, Mr Petan, to return this to the first reading by the candidate of the National Assembly is less commercially pure than this, that is undoubtedly. We, when preparing the proposal for a decision, have somehow fluctuated between a completely business-based approach and a substantive approach. And if we have taken into account the content of what we want to drive with the concept of law through the entire law and that this matter will be as little business as possible, or would say, however inconsistent, we have decided on this option. And I personally, when preparing as chairman of the committee a proposal for a decision, say whether I am convinced that this proposal is at least commercially contentious in view of the situation prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and the situation which has taken place. That is why I think it would be very wise to end this debate somehow, because I firmly believe that any other proposal coming on the bench is also "discussive" disputed. In this situation, when the Rules of Procedure do not explicitly provide for such a case, we would have a similar debate. I would therefore ask that we conclude the debate slowly and then define ourselves to the conclusion and thus also allow us to obtain at the 7th session a proposal for a law with all the inherent amendments that any of the qualified applicants will also submit to those articles that otherwise qualified applicants would not be able to submit if they chose another business option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think we could close the debate. More notice. At the College of the President of the National Assembly, we placed this point, second reading, on a previous reference. If this Decision is adopted 15 days before the next regular session, all Members may submit amendments to the basic version published in the Rapporteur. So I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting! 61 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 8. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the amendments to the report on economic companies, companies or enterprises for which the first instalment is based. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want a word with the representative, the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The home work body shall propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want a word? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on changes and additions to the Health Act, the Speedy Procedure, and the Third Defence Act. Since the National Assembly initiated its consideration of the draft law at its 5th meeting and carried out a first and second hearing in the framework of a rapid procedure. The third reading concludes the debate on the proposal as a whole. Since there are no amendments, I ask the secretariat whether the law is harmonised. The law is in harmony. Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 37 votes against one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to 6. TIME OF DAY - PROPOSAL OF A TRANSPORT LEGISLATION IN TRAVEL, HITRI PROCEDURE, I find that no business options have been met for consideration since the State Council has not yet received the report. That's why we're moving to treatment 7. Agenda items - Proposal for an Industrial Property Act. The National Assembly initiated its consideration of the draft law at its 5th meeting and held a first and second hearing in the framework of a rapid procedure. The third reading concluded the debate on the proposal as a whole. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the third reading amendment table, which is your proposal for an amendment on the bench. This is an amendment of 25.4.2001, of which Members of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia are Members, signed first by Lidija Majnik, which is an amendment to Article 131 of the text to delete the fourth paragraph. I am therefore putting an amendment to Article 131 into the debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kavčič, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u78	I am aware that a coalition amendment has also been tabled under Article 131 of this Act, and I propose that we wait for this amendment to be split. I propose the adjournment of the session for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u79	I'm adjourning the session for 15 minutes. We'll continue our work at 12:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u80	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let's get back to work. We got the amendments on the bench. To determine whether we can make a valid decision, we need to determine the presence. Please look politely at your colleagues' places, not having any cards inserted and being misrepresented. We're picking up the presence! There are 54 present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. You probably have two amendments on your table before you, namely the amendment I have already presented before, this is the amendment to Article 131, with the first signed by Lydia Majnik and the group of Members, and then the amendment to the same article 131, of which four members are proposing, namely the LDS Group, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS + SKD Group and the DeSUS Group of Members. In the debate, I am putting both amendments to Article 131, with a note that, as long as the amendment with the first signed Lithium Majnik is adopted, it will become an amendment, of which four Members are joint, irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ferry Horvath, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We have already discussed this article very thoroughly on the Committee on the Economy and then adopted or proposed an amendment adopted in the second reading of Article 131. It is also possible for patent representatives and representatives of models and brands to represent the parties before the courts and other state authorities in proceedings relating to rights under this Act, if they fulfil the conditions for this. The Group of Members, as precisely stated by the Chairperson, is proposing in its amendment the deletion of this amendment, a deletion of the possibility that patent representatives may represent the parties before the state authorities and also before the courts. We carried out further consultations, also encouraged by a letter from the Bar Association. As Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, the Bar Chamber proposes two: first, it supports or proposes the deletion of the fourth paragraph, which we have tabled with the amendment in the text of the Third Reading Act, and also makes an alternative proposal that, if the amendment is already adopted, it also proposes a text on how this amendment should be drafted. This text, when examined in detail, is almost identical to the text of the amendment proposed by the Committee and adopted by the assembly, the fourth paragraph, which was then also incorporated into the third reading law. After consultations with the secretariat for legislation, with the government, as well as with some fellow Members, we have found that the doctrine proposed by the Bar Association, although it is almost identical, is more legally accurate, is more precise to define the conditions that patent agents must meet in cases where they represent the parties before the courts and other state authorities. That is why we have decided, four members of the group, to propose the amendment you have before you. I will not read the amendment because you have it before you and you have certainly read it, but I suggest that you accept it or accept it and that we reject the amendment of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Our Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has just been explained by Mr Ferri Horvat, is not signed on this amendment, so that it is also supported by our Group of Members after examining this amendment and considers it fully justified. With further explanation, it is possible that this explanation given by the Group of Members is not the most justified or most accurate, almost little misleading, if I say so. In fact, Article 80 of the Administrative Procedure Act in paragraph 3 refers to the Commissioners, and this should be taken into account and the explanation is therefore somewhat unilateral, so that the Commissioners are also possible in another person. In short, we will certainly support this amendment. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u85	I support the amendment of the Group of Members, prepared by colleague Lydia Majnik, in that part which restricts access or representation before the State authorities. However, not in absolute terms, but in that part of the limits imposed by the applicable system law. That is why I also participated in the drafting of the proposal, which was explained in detail by my colleague Horvat, who sums up part of the content of the proposal by the Bar Association and adds to it the part proposed by the Government in the second reading. That is why I also support the adoption of the coalition-coordinated amendment, and I suggest that my colleagues not support the amendment tabled by the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, in any event, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have already defended this matter in the Committee's consideration of the law. By giving the opportunity to represent the parties in patent-related disputes, including patent agents, we also introduce into our legal order a well-run practice known by the European peoples. In addition, we are also establishing some kind of competition in this area, which is good. Which is good, and in any case we support this solution of the four groups of Members, and we will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please! Could you turn it off, Mr. Brenčič, please? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Our Group, therefore, as a signatory, joins this opinion, explained by its colleague Feri Horvat, so that we will undermine this amendment because these dilemmas have already been expressed in the context of the consideration of the law by the Committee on the Economy itself. There has already been such an opinion that patent agents could, however, also be the bearers of this part of the task of producing this law. It seems that few lawyers have given in now, and there is one good compromise that the matter will be acceptable to both sides. That is why we support these amendments of the parliamentary groups, which others seem to be joining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. New Slovenia, too, although not a party to this amendment, would like to clarify that we will also support this as a parliamentary group for these reasons, which we have already heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First of all, we will vote on the amendment to the 131st Article, the proposal of which is a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Lidija Majnik. We're voting! 52 Members and Members are present. Vote 6 to 38. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are therefore moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 131, of which there are four groups of Members. We're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I'm asking the secretariat if maybe there's no discrepancy. [[...]] That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their presence. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION OF PLANTS, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The National Assembly began its consideration of the draft law at its 5th meeting and suspended it in second reading when it adopted the amendment to Article 4 and Article 4 in its entirety. This will continue with the second reading of the draft law, which we will guide on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.5.2001. You just got that new review of the amendments on the bench. Since, as I have already informed you, we have already voted on Article 4 in full, we are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and on an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is the proposer. The parent working body of the amendment shall be supported by a note, if this amendment is not adopted, by the amendment to Article 84, in order to be number 1 immaterial. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and the three amendments to Article 6. All three amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body supports all three amendments, with notes to the amendment number 1: if the amendment is not adopted, the amendments under order number 2 and the amendment under article 84 under order number 1 are irrelevant, and by reference, if the amendment under order number 2 is not accepted, the amendment under order number 1 to article 84 is also irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment under order number 3 has also been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7 of which the proposer is the Government; the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 8 and on the two amendments to Article 8. Both amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 10 and on the three amendments to Article 10. Amendments under 1 and 2 are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of both amendments supports. The proposed amendment under 3 is the SLS+SKD Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the Government and the mother's working body have not been defined until the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 31 against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has been accepted. We still vote on Article 10 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 12 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting! 52 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting! 52 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 16 and on the two amendments to Article 16. Both amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The mother's working body supports both amendments. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting! 52 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 19 and on the two amendments to this Article. Both amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The mother's working body supports both amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on amendment number one. We're voting! There are 54 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. There are 55 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 20 and the two amendments to Article 20. Both proposers are the government, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. There are 55 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 21 and the amendment to this article, of which the Government is the proposer, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 21. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 32 against no one. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 23 and the two amendments to this Article. Both amendments are proposed by Alojz Sok, the government and the home labour body have not been identified until the amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 26. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 23 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 25 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 36 and on the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 42 and on the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 44 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. He voted 31 against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 58 and an amendment to this Article, of which the Government is the proposer. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full vote on the article. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving to a debate and decision on Article 59 and under Order Nos. 1 and 2 on the two amendments to the Government's amendment under Order No. 3. Both amendments to the Government's amendment are proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And below 3 is the basic amendment of the government, supported by the mother's working body by who wants to discuss? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote first on the amendment to the Government's amendment under order number one. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the Government's amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the Government's amendment under order number 2 has been adopted. We are also voting on the Government's basic amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 60 and the amendment to this article, of which the Government is the proposer, the home labour body supports it, with the remark that this amendment is linked to the amendment to Article 42, and with the footnote, if it is not adopted, the amendments to Article 68 are irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 60. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. There are 60 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 68 and the three amendments. The proposer of all three is the government, the mother labour body supports all three amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision: we are voting on an amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 60 Members and Members present. 30 votes against no one. [[The vote was 30.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 3 has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. There are 60 Members and Members present. 34 votes against no one. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 72 and on the three amendments to this Article. Since the amendment under order number 3 is irrelevant, since it is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the three amendments, namely the amendment under 1 and 2, of which the applicant is the Government, the parent working body of both amendments supports, and the amendment under 4, of which the Committee is proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 34 votes against no one. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 4 has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 75 and on the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on the amendment. 61 Members and Members are present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 76 and on the three amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 shall be adopted by Weber Janko, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 2 of which the applicant is the Government, is irrelevant. The mother's working body supports the amendment under order number 2 and the amendment under 3 of which the applicant is the Government. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Representative of the Government, Secretary of State, Mrs Vida Čadonic Špelič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. We would like to draw your attention to the amendment under number 2, as the President has already said, tabled by the Government and supported by the mother's working body. Mr Weber, with his amendment, has already rightly concluded that, as first-point proponents, when we describe what the tasks of the administration were, we went a little too far and used the word politics. Then we decided to reshape this thing by using the word "strategic" instead of the word "policy". What did we want to accomplish with this? As we all know, under the Government Act and under the Administration Act, the Ministry and the Government are obliged to formulate and implement policies, while in this article we speak exclusively of the tasks of the Plant Protection Authority, which we wish to preserve with this amendment, indeed, as a professional, central professional authority. That's why it seemed to us in the government, and that's why we proposed that if we delete the word "policy" and use the word "strategy" in doing so, we give this body the very expertise to prepare the basis, the professional basis and the proposals to the Minister, which then implements this policy, which means that it doesn't matter for the work of the administration who is the minister at that time. Therefore, we ask you to support the amendment under number 2, as also supported by the working body, and to allow this professional autonomy of the Plant Protection Board to be maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I do not think that the summary of the government presented in this second amendment is the most accurate one. We must be aware that the office is an integral part of the government or is organised within the government and is, of course, directly subordinate to the minister. This comment, which I have just expressed in this amendment, speaks of this, namely, the original solution was for the Office to design and implement plant health policy. This seemed controversial to me because the office is within the Ministry and, of course, the Ministry is the one that, of course, has to approve a policy and then approve its implementation. Finally, of course, it is likely that the State Assembly has a role to play in this, either through its working bodies or directly through the adoption of some strategies at the national assembly as well. The solution offered by the government to replace the word "policy" with "strategy" is not defined in this law. And that's what the government amendment's flaw is. We will introduce a strategy, which is nowhere to be seen, what this strategy should actually look like, who will accept it and so on. It seems more appropriate for us to say very clearly that the Plant Protection Office is cooperating with its expertise in the design and implementation of plant health policy. That's the purpose of this amendment. However, if we define that we are involved in the design and implementation of the strategy, in my opinion we have reduced the competence of the Plant Protection Office, because it will be responsible for the preparation of a strategy, which in my opinion is a relatively undefined scope of work or a very inconclusive scope of work, especially if we think that it is a professional body that this Office is supposed to represent. I think that the solution in my amendment is really more correct and gives the right solutions in view of the hierarchy of individual organs in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss Mr Geza Juban again, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. It wouldn't be good if we took a solution that would disable the plant protection board. Article 74, paragraph 1, states, "the administration is the central responsible plant health authority". That's what they say. There's no other way over her. And if we write down that we are involved in policy making, it means that someone must be over this body; it is not. This means that the situation suddenly arises that we no longer have any authority that is basically the central responsible authority, because the administration only cooperates with someone who is not and, of course, the solution would be wrong or the whole system of administration, its powers and responsibilities would not work as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u99	I have a replica of Mr Juban's performance when he says that if we write down "co-operated" or I think that his debate was in the sense that the dictatorship must be such that there is no one who is above the plant protection office. This is, of course, impossible in any case, because the office is a government body and is a minister over this office in any case. If someone is above, then, of course, in a ministry policy, the Office as a professional institution may participate in the design and implementation of a plant health policy. The solution is much more difficult if the law states that the Office designs and implements a plant health policy, as this leaves the Minister without his or her powers, which he or she belongs to in accordance with the Government Act or on the organisation of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u101	In fact, both dictatorships assume that there is someone else involved in plant health in addition to the office. In fact, this issue is not definitively closed by the first proposal, nor by the second amendment. It is true, however, that the explanation here would agree with colleague Webro, that the Government's explanation leaves a certain methodological void. If we are talking about a strategy, we need to talk about the objectives in addition to the strategy and we need to talk about policy. Politics means the theoretical integration of objectives and strategies. Strategies are nothing more than ways to achieve the objectives set. Both opinions suggest another authority in plant protection, which I think makes sense, it is the ministry as a whole and, as said by colleague Weber, Minister. So I think it's more consistent thinking and reasoning from my colleague, Weber, who's involved in the Office's design of objectives as well as in the design of strategies. It is said that the Office is engaging in a comprehensive work on plant health and believes that it also correctly assumes someone else's role in this, that is, the Minister. I will personally support my colleague Vebra's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, allow us just for a moment to suspend our session. In our midst, I have the honour to welcome the President of the Slovak Republic, Mr Rudolf Schuster, who visited us with a delegation. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u103	He thanks in his own language.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your kind words, Mr. Schuster. [[Let's hear it.]] We're moving on. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I will return to Article 74 again, where the powers have been carefully worked out. The first part says what I once said is that plant protection board is the central responsible plant health authority. The second paragraph states: Management tasks and related professional tasks shall be carried out by the Administration. The third paragraph speaks of the part where I agree that someone is still above the administration, where the Ministry is a secondary body. The hierarchy is in place and the system has to work. Article 76 provides for the powers and responsibilities of this administration. At that point, whether it is a policy or a strategy, it is true that this may be an important difference, that the strategy is something else, in which case these tasks are all the more important. If we say that we are working together, let someone explain to me who will be preparing the regulations, controlling harmful organisms, analysing, conducting laboratory investigations, if the administration will only cooperate. Will the Minister conduct the laboratory investigations, but will the Administration cooperate? This means that we are collapsing the whole system and that the solution in this way is not acceptable and administration, if we say that it is only cooperation, we disable it and will not be able to carry out its tasks, especially when these tasks need to be carried out very urgently, which has been happening a lot lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Given that there are quite a few debaters, and the time is 1 p.m., I am adjourning the meeting and continuing to discuss the amendments to Article 76 in the afternoon part of our meeting. Thank you so much and I wish you a good one!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u107	Ladies and gentlemen! I suggest we proceed with the afternoon session. I welcome you in my name. Please, let's first find out if there's a presence. Please see if the cards are inserted. 58 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Before continuing on our vacation, the closed point of the proposal for the Law on Plant Health - the rapid procedure - allow me to inform you that they are further justified for the continuation of the 6th session of Mr. Stanislav Brenčič for the afternoon part, Danica Simšič for the start of the afternoon meeting, Franci Rokavec from 4 p.m. onwards and also Andrej Gerenčer. We continue with the debate on Article 76 on the three amendments tabled. Another amendment was tabled during the rest or during the rest period and is being shared. This amendment has one line. If you'll be so kind as to pay attention. I will read: "Article 76, first point, changes and reads: 1. participates in the design and implementation of plant health policy." As you can see, they're sharing this amendment. That is how this amendment is now to be discussed. Please report to the debate or continue the debate. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This doctrine is more precise and is essentially a suggestion from the secretariat. However, the contents were explained earlier by colleague Weber. But now it's official. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u109	Yeah, I see him behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u110	Oh, he's here. I haven't seen him. He's already explained the contents, but he can do it again if he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 76? I would like to point out that if, after we vote, this amendment, which Mr Bevk has tabled and has just commented on, is adopted, then the first and second amendments to Article 76 are irrelevant. So we only have two amendments under Article 76. Mr. Kavčič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I believe we're in touch with this last read amendment? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u113	Yeah, worse, but I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u114	I therefore believe that the last proposed amendment has taken up the dilemmas that we have analysed in the morning work with sufficient quality. [[...]] I haven't got it in my hands yet. As I've heard from him, it seems to me that he is solving and summarizing the intentions of the two different amendments. That is why I believe that it is worth supporting, and I also recommend that colleagues and colleagues support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Nobody else? Can we close the debate on the amendments to Article 76? Yes, you can. Okay, then we'd go to the vote. We will first vote on the last amendment tabled by Mr Bevek, which is an amendment which has just been distributed to you. We vote on this amendment. Of the 58 present, 29 votes in favour, 13 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that Mr Bevek's amendment has been adopted. This made the first and second amendments irrelevant to Article 76. We only vote on the third amendment. If I may warn you, it's on page 12. To make it perfectly clear what we are voting on, this amendment reads: "Point 12 76. Articles." So we'll find each other easier. We're voting, please. Of the 59 present, 37 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 76 as a whole. Of the 60 present, 37 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 76 has been adopted. We move on to the 78th paragraph, where we have two amendments. I'm opening a debate on the amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 78. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are now moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 78. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 9, 29 voted against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on Article 78 as a whole. We're voting please. Of the 62 present, 44 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 78 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 83. Article 83 has two amendments. Who wants a word about these amendments? Mr. Juban first. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman. Here perhaps it would suggest that, in its own way, a fellow Sok is right because the number 8 million looks very high for certain penalties or offences if they happen. However, if we look at the text of an article that says that these fines are from 200,000 forward and that in exceptional cases that we can monitor, when it comes to certain offences at the level, what do I know, such as foot-and-mouth disease, BSE or anything like that, if we compare them with a veterinary surgeon, they are exceptionally or rarely pronounced such penalties. Maybe we're just comparing it to a vet, where those penalties are even higher and they reach up to 12 million tolars. This means that in this area plant protection, actual penalties will certainly be much lower and for the worst offences affecting national interests or threats are then such penalties. I won't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your word. I would like to say that these penalties, which are accepted by the National Assembly in law, particularly in the field of agriculture, appear to me to be astronomically high. Since you mentioned the vet, I had the same amendments and with the same arguments already. I know these things because, just before I took office in this Parliament, I worked on the field as a veterinary inspector. In many cases, it is simply matters that do not deserve such rigorous sanctions. Look, the punishment has to be kind of educational, not destructive. If you give one small craftsman, entrepreneur or farmer the maximum penalty, then of course it is not a educational measure, but destruction. I'm sure of that. If you give such a possibility in marriage, then it's hard to say, yes, but the judge will not use the highest possible penalty in punishing. If the law gives him this option, then he can do so if he does not have this possibility in the law, he will not, of course, prescribe such penalties. It seems to me that the sentence of 4 million, as a maximum sentence, is extremely high. But I would like to remind you that, for example, in the aviation law, we have accepted the maximum penalty of 5 million tolars. So if someone were to drive passengers on a technically non-malicious plane, they could be punished with a maximum of 5 million. Here, either in this law or in the veterinary law that you mentioned, if someone commits one offence to bring either plants or animals past customs, someone could punish him with 12 or in this case with 8 million. So these penalties are too high for me, and according to someone, I would say that the level of development and national income should be adapted to these penalties, not to interfere with such a high penalty.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, that's exactly what the law says. From 100,000 to 4 million is a penalty for an individual, while this number, which is being amended with your amendment, is for legal persons, this is not for individuals. That's a big difference if you're making a deal for 100 million or a lot more, or if you're importing, I don't know, for one garden of orchards and then it's for individuals. So, to repeat, the penalty is to this extent, as you suggest, but I reach out to legal persons is this solution, which is being amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] Can we close the debate on the amendments to Article 83? Okay. We're moving to the vote. First, we vote on the first amendment to Article 83. Of the 62 present, 19 votes to 23. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 83. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 votes in favour, 32.6 were against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 83 in full, please. Of the 62 votes in favour, 37 were against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] That is how this Article is adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 84. We have four amendments to Article 84. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word, please? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. If you look at the notes, which are set out in the individual amendments to Article 84, we will see that the amendment under order number 1 is linked to the amendment to Articles 5 and 6, the second is not tabled in accordance with Rule 179 of the Rules of Procedure and therefore cannot be voted on. There are no other notes here. If there is no debate, we are going to vote on the first, third and fourth amendments. First, we vote on the first amendment to Article 84. Of the 62 present, 45 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 84 has been adopted. We move to a vote on the third amendment. We're voting. Of the 63 present, 46 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment under order number 4. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 37.9 votes. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 84 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 42 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 84 has been adopted. We move on to the 90th article where we have one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 90. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 64 present, 40 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to the 91st article where we have one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 91. Let's vote, please! Of the 64 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on Article 91 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 64 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 91 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 92. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 92. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 40 members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 92 as a whole. Of the 63 present, 32 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 92 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 94. We have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment to Article 94. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 34 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 94 as a whole. Of the 63 present, 35 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 94 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 96. We have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Can we vote? Please vote on the amendment to Article 96. Of the 63 present, 36 voted in favour, none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on Article 96 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 34 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 96 has been adopted with this. And then there's the 99th. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word, please? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 99. We're voting! Of the 61 present, 36 voted in favour, none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 99 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 35 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 99 is hereby adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to say a word, we are moving on to decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 34 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the address, to the debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[He doesn't want to.]] Can we vote on the title of the law? Let's vote, please! Of the 62 present, 41 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. This concludes the second treatment. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that all the amendments that have been proposed have been adopted to the draft law in the second reading. This is the material we processed today. Therefore, all articles that are subject to amendment in this material may be open. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u123	With this option in mind, Mr President, which you have stated is an option for possible amendments, I propose that the point be interrupted in order to determine if necessary. I think there are two things that need to be seen if you are properly resolved to continue the point later.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u124	Who else wants a full debate on the law? Not about Mr. Juban's proposal. Now we're talking about the whole marriage. We are now at the beginning of the third hearing, so we have a full debate on the proposal for a law. Mr Juban, however, suggested that this point should be interrupted in order to be able to table amendments, which is, of course, a legitimate request or proposal. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Nobody.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u125	There could be a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u126	I understand you've made an official proposal to break this point. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. I'm putting an end to this third review of the law. The one you intend to table amendments, please, if you do. We're moving to the next nine. Period of the day, it's a motion to withdraw a bill on the privatisation of state property, another defense. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia informed the assembly, by letter of 7 February 2001, that the draft law on the privatisation of state property had been withdrawn from the legislative procedure. The government wants a word. I don't see him in this area. I'm just asking for a moment. Since it's a retreat, maybe things aren't that complicated. In the meantime, we will ask the representative of the secretariat about legislation and legal matters, if there is any possibility of wanting to do so. [[They don't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it is appropriate that, when I propose the withdrawal of the law on the privatisation of state property, which was in the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of almost seven years of age, I should just like to say a word. Let me first say that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we agree that the Act on the Privatisation of State Property withdraws from the procedure. We believe that it is possible and right that the issues dealt with by this law, and these are privatisation methods and procedures, should be dealt with in a uniform manner, in a public finances law rather than through a specific law. Even though this is our opinion, we would like to point out that six years ago we have been actively involved in drafting the content of the law on the privatisation of state property, because we are convinced that this is an important second phase of the ownership process in the Republic of Slovenia. The first phase was the property transformation and, in its context, a significant part of the property was acquired by the State, in addition to other known owners. The second part concerns how the current state property is privatised, resold or possibly disposed of in other ways in order to obtain a ownership structure that will ensure the proper management and delivery of our economic and development objectives. This was also why, in the UK Group of Social Democrats, when we received the first announcement by the Government to decide on the withdrawal of the draft law on the privatisation of state property, we proposed to agree with the Government whether this withdrawal meant to stop discussing what procedures and modalities for the privatisation of state property would be governed by law, and whether all the powers for privatisation would be acquired and exercised by the Government through one provision of the Public Finance Act, which provided that, at the same time as the budget, a balance of sales of property would be presented to the Governing Body and that the National Assembly here, apart from informing that it would do so, it had no powers whatsoever. We considered that this would be too little and that in some cases, if not for any state property, it was no longer a matter of the right to discuss them also by the National Assembly, because, first of all, it was a non-refundable act, once the state property was resold in one way or another; if you want to acquire it, you must have the resources and buy it from shareholders who would become owners of this new property. Secondly, because it is normal for owners, current, state, and new ones, whether domestic or foreign, to have the right to decide on the business policy and development of that company or other activity where they own it. If most companies are considered right to take full decisions and that the state does not have to be very involved in this, there are certain activities where we are not sure that this is irrelevant. It is mainly public services, economics, much or sometimes even more of a non-economic public service, and it is also for banks, insurance companies and more. In particular, we believe that it would be absolutely necessary for the National Assembly to be aware of those privatisation policies, which also constitute an appropriate or inadequate way of enabling certain activities. For example, the question of the privatisation of health care. Would the government's decisions, without knowing what this conceptually means, privatize all health care homes in primary health care? What that would mean is we're probably aware. Is it possible to say that we will privatize all hospitals, or is it possible, without any clear concept, to say how cultural institutions or schools will privatize and so forth? In short, there are issues that cannot be assessed without assessing the consequences, and the goals we have simply face a fraction each year, while at the same time privatising to a greater extent only through the decisions of the government. Notwithstanding the fact that we are a government party and would have this moment to say, even the possibility of any impact on such decisions, we considered that this decision should not in principle be left to the government alone, but that the law should provide for procedures, criteria, criteria on which these issues are addressed. However, in order for certain activities - in particular for public services, especially non-economic public services - it is right that such decisions on privatisation can be taken on the basis of an appropriate programme prepared in accordance with sectoral laws, such as health, education and the like, and that such a concept of ownership can also be discussed by Members and Members of the National Assembly. We have received assurances from the Government that appropriate regulations will be properly prepared. Members and Members already have a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on public finances, which, in our opinion, will give us an opportunity to discuss the appropriate way and procedures for privatising state property. For this reason, therefore, it seems to us that it is precisely the focus of our attention on how privatisation will take place to focus on that law and today, at least as far as we are concerned, on the decision to withdraw the law on the privatisation of state property from the procedure. In doing so, however, we would like to say two more, three things about issues which, in our view, are not formally related to the law on the privatisation of state property or its withdrawal, but because of the fact that it is a matter of property, whether justified or not - in my opinion, they are connected more unwarrantedly than justified. One such issue is the privatisation of the Slovenian development society and the debate on whether or not this privatisation is carried out and whether it is right or wrong that part of the Slovenian development company's assets and assets are also intended to cover the privatisation hole. I would like to say that with regard to Slovenian development society we have a special law, this is the law on the closure of ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by Slovenian development society. As long as the law is as it is, the privatisation of these companies, including the allocation of funds from these companies to cover the privatisation gap, which has a special chapter in this law, will have to be regulated in accordance with these rules. I think it would be bad if this question were to be linked in any way or because some people think that it is, I would say, a reason, because we also went on this path to partially provide a privatisation gap. This is why, I don't know, businesses will be privatised in an inadequate way or that so many new jobs will be lost. The issue of jobs is very topical. It needs to be taken seriously, but I'm not sure it's only about privatisation, it's about many other issues. The next issue I would like to mention in this regard is the issue of covering the privatisation deficit. I am pleased that this was also raised yesterday to the First Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, that the circle is spreading, to say the parties interested, although I am afraid that this circle is spreading only through the questions sent. Because when we deal specifically with these issues, then - I would say - there is less desire and opportunity for the issues to be addressed in an appropriate manner. I would like to remind you that the issue of the settlement of the privatisation hole has lasted for years, that the first definitive date by which the privatisation hole should be covered has already been established since 31 December 1997. Unquestionable, determined by law! And that ever since then, the National Assembly has never, ever in this composition, but in the previous, with much support, also the parties who are privatising it today have always adopted laws that have delayed dates. And it was later set date 1.8.1998 and later date 12.1.2000. None of these have been fulfilled and I fear that the promises made by this coalition will not be fulfilled. I am afraid that this will, unfortunately, indeed, and because of the competent government service, the competent ministry, including the competent State Secretary, who promised the relevant information yesterday, are not acting in such a way that the necessary assets, which undoubtedly exist, are indeed provided to cover the privatisation gap. I stress this because I think it would be right to continue to do so, regardless of what happens to this property later. Thirdly, what I would say is that in the short term, we will also discuss amendments to the law on management companies and authorised investment companies. And it is right that we are seriously discussing this and then also in a way that we can see how far or how inappropriate their conduct and operations are in these societies are, I would say, hide, possibly also for the problems of successful or less successful business, and what we should do in law to avoid these problems. I would like to point out that, in this area as well as in the area of privatisation as a whole, including the ownership process, a few steps have probably been taken to allow for much greater transparency and clarity in the process itself. And since these steps and such decisions have not been taken, it has been possible that individuals are not against the law, but through the application of the relevant legal provisions - we have, for example, warned some Members in a timely manner, but our warnings have not been adopted - the possibilities have been created to obtain relatively large and important ownership shares, which are now being acquired in these so-called privatised companies - I say'so-called' because I am not sure that the whole process has been properly carried out - manages and, of course, also acquire shares and shares on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, I would like to point out to all those outside the Chamber that we are not concluding, and that we will probably be voting soon. Who wants another word, please? Maybe a government representative first. Secretary of State, Mr. Strmšnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to react a little late or to clarify the proposal to withdraw the law on the privatisation of state property. So, Mr Potč has very nicely and systematically pointed out all the implications and connections that are possible in connection with this law. Surely there is a question of filling the privatisation gap, which can be directly linked to the topic under consideration today. There must be a question of privatisation of the Slovenian Development Society, which was also open; it is only a matter of a strategy for privatisation of Slovenian property. And if we keep going, this issue is part of the economic development strategy of Slovenia as a whole. I'd ask you to do some distinction here. What we wanted to regulate with the law will be settled, or we have already partially settled for 2001 in the law on the implementation of the budget. In the procedure, the law amending the law on public finances, which will regulate the rest, will always be the law on the privatisation of state property. At the same time, I might also point out this: the strategic debate comes to us in the parliamentary branch with the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia. This document is made, is prepared, has already been dealt with in the bodies of the government and I think it will be sent to Parliament shortly. Certain issues related to the privatisation of the SRD have already been resolved, or the government has taken its position on them already in the strategy for Slovenia's integration into the European Union, where these guidelines were clearly recorded at the time and are in fact now in the process of achieving these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Please, Mr. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The question of privatisation of state property is a matter of the economic performance of our country, but it is also a step towards improving or reducing policy interference in the economic field. Therefore, in fact, I find it difficult to understand why the government decided to withdraw this law. We have been hunting for a long time in the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget, so how to make this privatisation or sale. And secondly, what could be the purpose of this property, or purchase, of this sale. The interpretation of the government was that it was possible to use it for what it was. However, we referred to the introductory provisions of the Public Finance Act, which state what is possible with this state property, that is, with purchase, for what it is possible to do so. Of course, I am afraid that this sale will then take place intransparency in the backstage, that the government will do it alone without any framework, while it should work within the framework, on the basis of frameworks and technical facilities. Otherwise, it makes sense for the government to decide on these matters. What will be spent, that is, this property, we will see, maybe debt repayments will be made, there will be current needs that are now emerging as a result of unplanned budget outages. In short, we don't know. Government officials say we will regulate this area in several laws, we have already written something down in the law on the implementation of the budget, and we will see a change in the law on public finances. Of course, it's a pigeon on the roof. We can't see anything like this. In short, the same story continues: ambiguity as to what to do with state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Please. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party we advocate a comprehensive transparent and equitable regulation of this area, so to speak, the area of privatisation of state property. We believe that it would be a time for us to have it regulated by a special law. However, I see that the government is also committed to following partial solutions in this area and regulating this by means of a law on the implementation of the budget for the current year, so that we want to partially regulate it also with the Public Finance Act. I don't think that's the right solution. Otherwise, some assets are already privatized, some will be privatized this year after these solutions. It is offered on the palm of our hand, I would say, a scenario that we will adopt a comprehensive solution to the privatisation of state property when this state property is only enough to be no longer of interest to serious buyers, but will, above all, be a burden to the state. We believe that this gives the government too much power to privatise state property and therefore it is difficult to accept such solutions. We have already mentioned all these dilemmas when adopting the law on the implementation of the budget in the context of the budgetary debate. Above all, we are disturbed by the fact that the sale or property or money obtained through the disposal and privatisation of state property is somehow spent on liquid consumption and also on certain inherited investments, as well as on the rescue of patients, while it is not used for what is also intended in the Public Finance Act. I therefore stress once again that we do not advocate partial solutions in this area, and we are surprised by the government's behaviour that usually the opposition's amendments qualify as some non-systemic approach, but that, in just as sensitive an area as the privatisation of state property, these solutions serve. This is said to privatise and, of course, resale a good deal and a good part of state property from year to year with the law on the implementation of the budget and similar solutions. I am afraid that again this partial will go primarily to reselling what is interesting, but not what would be in the interest of the State to resell. Therefore, once again: prepare, please, comprehensive system legislation in this area and not with partial solutions to interfere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anyone else in this group want a word? [[No one else.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written submissions to the debate, so I limit the debate to five minutes. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Squirrel!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At this point in the agenda, I would like to highlight one aspect of the problem, which Mr Potrč spoke very carefully about. I am not putting at the forefront a political commitment, as it was written in a document called the Coalition Treaty. Black on white is the deadline for the coalition to support the adoption of a law on the ownership of state property. Let's just say that the decision on the level of the coalition was different. I would touch only one aspect of this problem - this is what it has become and remains the role of the State Assembly in this process. Very small, very small. In the 2001 proposal for the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we also received a sales programme for state, financial and real property for 2001. The introductory explanation reads the first sentence: "After III. the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Public Finance shall be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly at the same time as the draft budget and the programme for the sale of state-owned and real property for the following year, which shall be necessary in order to provide the revenue of the budget with explanations." This is probably the only link between the National Assembly and the one that controls the decisions of the executive branch. For the existing law on the implementation of the budget in Article 21, which deals with methods of selling financial and real property, does not directly refer to control in Article 22, which deals with the sales programme, and Article 23, which deals with preparatory actions. That is why I would appeal here to respectable colleagues to pay more attention to the decision that we will take at this meeting when we adopt a decision amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. You will recall that on Friday night, when we adopted the budget, somewhere between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m., our fellow Members from our parliamentary group convinced our colleagues, unfortunately only then from the position, because I think that the colleagues from the opposition have failed and have left that it has been decided that the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission should consider whether it would not be prudent to establish a special working body to monitor the privatisation and sale of state property. But not any one, this particular one, which was written down and which was presented in the 2001 budget. So the one that sells and owns here and now. The old sins, the old offenses, the old dilemmas solved by the former Raych Commission, are unfortunately in this sense a passe. Our aim was to make a conscious decision by the National Assembly to continue to play the role of the one who plays the role of supervisor of the decision of the executive branch in accordance with this Constitution. That is why we see here the only link between Parliament and such an important area as the sale of state property. The decree to be adopted at this sitting is terribly dry. With only five words, we would extend the competence of the Committee on the Economy. They'd write, "Accompanies privatisation and the sale of state property." A lot, a lot too little, and there'll be a whole bunch of misunderstandings. Let us write down exactly which and how, therefore, the Economic Committee will look forward to this project! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Peterle, then Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I would like to point out that in deciding on this withdrawal we are not in the first reading, but we are in the second; that we have clear documentation that tells us how this matter has been going on, not of course since 1994, although the historical memory of this year is interesting, but that the law was adopted at first reading on 15.2.2000 in an unevenly different coalition composition, as it is now. And even if we are reading the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, we see in this case very - I stress, in this case - a very precise attitude towards change and innovation, and I would expect such attention from the secretariat also in other cases when the new solutions were given even in the third reading, they went through without comment. In particular, the Secretariat notes that "the applicant formally followed the positions of the State Assembly adopted at the preliminary hearing". So, I would like to know, as a Member, a little more or something else that we have listened to so far, what is the real background of this decision to withdraw in the second reading of a law when it is clear - so the secretariat also says - so that we can resolve matters with amendments. Since this will not be or will not be the case, I can only conclude that this is a very bad sign in this withdrawal, a bad sign on the inside, because it announces the added favour of the ruling coalition or the work of the ruling coalition in some very sensitive subject, but also on the outside, because it means such behaviour, given the European Commission's or European Union's relationship to the topic of privatisation, and also on the subject of the representation of the private sector in our economy, where, you know, we are the worst among candidate countries, I emphasise that the worst is the proportion of the representativeness of the private sector. So, by delaying this law, the announcements of different solutions are, of course, dragging this situation forward or going forward. I don't think that our credibility will help. I do not think it is appropriate to have a policy when we can understand a number of signals from the European Union itself as an attempt to slow down the enlargement process of the European Union, which we have seen in Stockholm these days at the meeting of the Presidents of the European Commissions of the Member States and the candidate countries. So if this is already happening there, there is no need for us to add to the elements that objectively mean a reduction in dynamics in our accession to the European Union. So, even the debates that coalition parties have had, which I will not argue with, because I can't do that either, indicate to me that the coalition in this direction did not have a precise discussion in this round and that it came from somewhere, "we will withdraw this, and then somehow, who will rule, but knows."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I will not support the personal proposal for a decision to withdraw the proposal for a law on the privatisation of state property. And that's from the next one, because I think it's a step backwards. I'm not saying it was a good proposal. However, it could probably be substantially corrected and improved in the second reading. The problem, however, is that the State of Slovenia does not have a clear strategy for privatising state property as it enters a more intensive phase of sales and privatisation of state property. I think at least three questions are raised in the privatisation of state property. To what extent will the privatisation of state property be subject solely to the law on the implementation of the budget, is it also said, the completion of the lack of revenue in the state budget? This certainly raises the question of what purpose these funds will be used for: either exclusively as transfers, or they will also allow for the so-called development component. The second question, I think, is also in unclear circumstances as to how the certificate gap will be filled. Because I think that today's decision to withdraw this procedure from the legislative procedure is certainly becoming even more vague. And thirdly, I think it's a very important question, which I think would probably be one of the most crucial. The fact is that in this period, when the state still has the means to fill the budget revenues in some way, it is in some way as much as we coordinate, so-called budget deficit.I think that the state should ask itself what it will be after a period when it is no longer possible to sell state assets for the bridging of the budget gap, and at that time it should find ways in which, in that period, it will be possible to obtain new revenues. That's what I think by investing in development. For this reason, I think it would be appropriate to draw up a country's strategy on the privatisation of state property and, above all, a clearly defined way and transparency of this privatisation. Not to mention control, which is already the case with colleague Podobnik, the leader of the parliamentary group, has already said. In short, I will not support the motion to withdraw the law on the privatisation of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I think on the part of the Members and Members. If not, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for an answer or comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u141	Yes, honourable Members, I would like to replicate two arguments: that what the Government is proposing is a step backwards and that the government is avoiding a substantive debate on the privatisation of state property. I don't think he's holding either, not the other one, by just proposing a solution, as we suggested. First, let us not forget what this law regulated. He was working on the method, not the content. We have dealt with or dealt with the contents of our thread, mainly under sectoral laws. And, as has already been said, given the strategic documents, including those that regulate the issues of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the commitments Slovenia has made in this process and also concern, last but not least, this issue. So I am sure there are formal opportunities and opportunities for this substantive debate and I am sure that, as far as it has not been done so far, it has already been done in the marikak area, there will certainly be an opportunity for it to be done. So much more because privatisation of state property is a very long process. This is not something that we would do this year, next year, and thus fill the gap, but is one long-term process that will follow Slovenia for quite some time, so as to gradually reach some normal state where the state would gradually deposit this property to the more efficient managers of this property. Second of all, why would that be a step back, the withdrawal of marriage? I also think personally, but above all in the Ministry and in the government, that the Public Finance Act is the most comprehensive solution to this problem. If there is a comprehensive approach to solving this problem, then it is within the law, the framework of the Public Finance Act. This is not something that could be saved and spent, it is also a waste outside the budgetary and public financial frameworks. Here we see a step forward, not stepping back. Yes, also the issue of control, the issue it solves very well, the law on public finances. The Public Finance Act refers to the supervision of all public finances, including this segment, the introduction of a programming approach, the introduction of a strategic approach, programme programming. In the area of the sale of state property is exactly what you, honourable Members, require - a strategic procedure. The only question is whether the government was strategic enough when it prepared the budget last year - it probably wasn't. However, this is an opportunity to correct this year's debate, and in the course of the 2002 debate on public finances, we will draw the 2002 budget out of these government programmes. The Public Finance Act clearly announces them: a programme approach, including in the sale of state property, and a strategic approach. This commitment is also clear in the Public Finance Act. The budget is based on the strategic definitions of the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia and those promises made by the European Union in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u142	Are these all the replicas on this side? Then we go in line: Mr Podobnik, then Mr Peterle, Mr Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I may not have been the first, but you gave me your word. After the performance of the esteemed Secretary of State, Mag. Strawster, you have set the stage for a long debate, a long debate. Most likely, however, this agenda item is not intended to open up a debate on some strategic issues that are also political issues. But let me just think about the control and the role of Parliament in particular. I didn't fully understand you or maybe not exactly and I would ask you to explain. You said the Public Finance Act was the best basis for control, and you mentioned it as a programming and strategic approach. I would like to ask you explicitly to explain where the role is here or in what way, of course, from your point of view as a government representative, you see the possibility that Parliament will play the role of the one responsible for overseeing such an important project as the current sales and ownership package of state property. However, there will be no misunderstanding, I do not agree that the only Parliament has sole role of control. I think that there is also a very important role to be played by interested investors or buyers, and they should be able to follow this procedure in a transparent manner. NGOs must play an important role. I am aware that the European Union is particularly supportive of this. The way to fight corruption is also that NGOs have a special place in these processes; and, last but not least, the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u144	Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. See, I am very concerned at the beginning of my replica that that essential view of one of the key issues of transition has been completely lost, the right attitude towards state or formerly social property, which has to be treated or resolved by law to date. And now it becomes some kind of supplement, some kind of subsystem in another marriage. The talk was that this law should not be so much concerned with content, but with the method. I am afraid that only the carrier will be designated, the method will be completely irrelevant, but the objectives will be set as needed and the finance minister or whoever will be set up for this or someone, I don't know, will handle matters according to the daily instrumental needs. This issue, which we should seriously complete and the first round was behind us - and I would like to say, by the way, that the government prepared a law for second treatment in the summer, although it could have already been government before it, since it was already set up in February, was part of the basis for a positive assessment by Brussels, because they saw a signal in this that the state wanted to move forward in the privatisation process, which we heard three times in a row, at least three times negative assessments or critical comments. So, now what was previously presented as a serious matter through a special law will now be a supplement, as I call it. I think we're getting closer or further away from any strategy and we're getting closer to a complete liberalistic pragmatist that's going to give us a headache. The economic development strategy was also mentioned. Let me say, I do not know which time in this house, that although we now have many partial strategies - we will now discuss the economic development strategy again, the government has not yet taken care of the strategy of comprehensive national development, where the economy is one category, where social is another, where space is third and so on. It's not there yet, we're back on the sidelines and we're going to have a broad debate on what's missing. So, this solution, when it is given this is extremely important - and essential to me - the issue of transition, which I think is not completed. It's not just because that question isn't solved. So this is now hidden somewhere, so in some ways there is no more than a serious question and is being solved as a matter of daily balance-hunting in a difficult public financial situation. And if this government will deal with public finances and the question of the conclusion of privatisation in this context, as it had an absolute relation to the pre-received budget, I will not say absolutely, but it has been done in a highly arbitrary manner, or unrealistic expectations and misassessments have been put in place at the source of the budget. So if this goes this way, it will be just another basis to expect that we will not come up with good solutions on this road. Of course, I took this withdrawal, although I usually took the withdrawal to my knowledge, I did not vote, and I will not support this withdrawal for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u147	Mr State Secretary has mentioned that the withdrawal of this law is a step towards a strategic and systematic approach to this, as this will be regulated in that main law, the law on public finances. I would agree with that and would also believe that if today the point of amendment or amendment to the Public Finance Act followed immediately, where these essential methodological provisions covered by the Act on the Privatisation of State Property would also be covered by this amendment and would be discussed later. Unfortunately, that's not the case. I also have before me a preliminary reference to the 7th session, the June session, and there is no new law there. I am just fighting, and we are on the best track to deal with such an important issue in part with this law on the implementation of the budget. I think there was a debate back then, that night, which was pretty hot on this topic. It has been said that this law gives the government, in my personal opinion, a significantly higher mandate in relation to the National Assembly and is just another ornament in the adoption of the budget. Because the government in ZIPRA has a number of powers to change decisions and, of course, in view of some changes in movements, it also complements economic ones as much as possible. I also have a serious comment here, because at that time it was also stated what the resale and this purchase will be for and from the sale of state property. It also stated that, in fact, there would be a substantial change in ownership. That is to say, we will sell some healthy, good capital or shares in some companies, and exchange them for some, I would say, very controversial equity shares in companies that are certainly not development-oriented. Even if I don't remember, there's a diction of "successful investment in electricity" which, of course, we committed years ago. I would like to point out that such partial solutions are not in the best interests of having state property and blur the picture. That is why I wanted this law to see a light or an agreed system to see the light, not to adopt it under the annual law on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, I would like an accurate reply from the Secretary of State, when possible we can expect a new law on public finances covering these methodological provisions regarding the disposal of state property. I am also interested in why this content, which is quite procedural and methodological in nature, is forced into a system law, because I believe that it is a comprehensive area or a comprehensive set of issues that are part of a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Any other Members of Parliament? Mr. Petty Officer and then Mr. Sok. Replica has Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear President! Fellow Members and Members! I'd like to rephrase the Secretary of State for a moment. Because what he said here would really require a broader debate. By this time, I was convinced that Slovenia had decided on its development strategy programme in 1990; when we decided to adopt a different economic order, when we decided to imitate the developed countries of the European Union. We then adopted, in 1990, a few key and later, in those years, some key laws such as the Denationalisation Act, the Privatisation Act. Today, 10 years later, we can see that these key laws are not actually implemented or implemented flawedly. Yesterday we were talking about this privatisation gap, which in fact means some form of damage for more than 1 million Slovenians who believed this government, the Drnovska government, and submitted their certificates, for this money, and for these deposits they did not get anti-money, they did not become shareholders. I am surprised that after ten years the government has put this sensitive issue aside in such a way and proposes to withdraw instead of trying as soon as possible as a good master to privatise this state property, and through this as a bad master over this property to dispose of the property. As far as Parliament is concerned, it is clear that Parliament must exercise the role of control in this process and in the discussions that have taken place and will continue with regard to the establishment of a commission or as Kviaz has concluded at its last meeting, this control of privatisation in the future will be exercised by the Committee on the Economy. This means that the coalition will supervise itself and continue to act as a good master, as a bad master, who, I would say, partially alienates Slovenian property, but in accordance with his budgetary needs, sells it to foreigners, to the best of his ability, and thus disposes of our Slovenian assets into the hands of foreigners. This almost consistently happened in the processing industry, which is currently owned by almost 100% of foreign owners throughout Slovenia. We will become Slovenians - just a little bit longer - the food users, the manufacturing industry dictated by foreign capital. I think that it is irresponsible to do so and to postpone such important laws, so, of course, I will not vote on my own motion to withdraw this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u150	Mr. Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I would touch on another area or privatisation segment, which was also mentioned by my colleague Potrč - that part of the public sector. So, he just mentioned that there's a problem privatizing this. In fact, there is no strategy in this area. This is done spontaneously, through the creation of new services, the secession of certain services and the establishment of the concessional services and the competitive, that is, the market sector. So there's no strategy here, there's no criteria, without doing it as I know it. Therefore, because they are an integral part of state property, these things should also be defined. You said there was a strategy. The strategy of the law on the implementation of the budget has some, perhaps, elements of the strategy. However, privatisation of state property cannot only be based on the budget implementation strategy - this is too little. If we are talking about public finances, then mention this - so privatisation, the technical part must be defined, substantive and purposeful. If we are to achieve this, it will be in the Public Finance Act - and indeed - then I am looking forward to having a decent situation. While this law will appear somewhat inconsistent or will descend into something that, in fact, by its sub-menu, does not necessarily mean that we will technically and strategically define the law on public finances. This would be part of the Act on Privatisation of State Property, including the segment I mentioned, i.e. the public sector. Now it's running, so this secession of the public sector, because we know it's too extensive, and it's being passed on - so this existing government structure gives it to its vassals. It is wrong that there is no clear, for all equal conditions to reach this segment so that you can implement it. These are questions that are still of vital importance to Slovenia and would be judged to be settled in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Peche, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u153	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we oppose withdrawal. It actually seems shocking to us that the government is trying to get past this - let's say - the parliament, the working body, to do privatisation; that is, in itself, without the right form of control and without a plan - let's say - a plan that would successfully privatize to the end. Currently there is Slovenia, as I said yesterday, at least as regards the filling of the privatisation gap, in that critical phase where it will take a lot of assets to sell, say, this. We say in the Slovenian national side: sell out. The fact is that with at least SRD's assets they are not so satisfied with both sides - let's say - of the pids to which they were to be transferred with - I think - a regulation; not those who are actually meant to have their shares invested in so-called pids, which, in our opinion, will then only increase - let's say - the privatisation gap. Because of their speculative nature and because of the sale of more, of course only some companies are interesting, which, logically, are already in the basic stage of the pike, they say that they are too valued and require the country to put them at a lower value. It is true that the National Assembly, 90 of us are difficult - let us say - to control privatisation, whether it is in the field of banks, insurance or in the area - partly - of the SRD.a. It is true, however, that both this law and the establishment of its own commission in this National Assembly would make the matter of privatisation transparent. I think that the task of the National Assembly, i.e. the wider public, is not only to members of the liberal democracy of the United List, DeSUS and SLS + SKD, to show how the sale will take place, for example, assets, but to actually show and make these activities transparent, so that any insight into them and not that privatisation will be interesting only for a few of the chosen people of this company who will, through the price, the price offered and the contacts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, provide the capital that has already been created by Plato. So, democracy is followed by bourgeoisie, which is a few people who are actually going to master this scene. Unfortunately, the Slovenian government is harder to deal with. In the Slovenian National Party we are in favour of each step, let's say privatisation, or for each segment of privatisation we have a special law, a law that will dictate and speak points and steps. Let's do at least a few things transparent in this country. I suggest that the other members of the National Assembly do not support the withdrawal and that we discuss the matter and get it into normal procedure and life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members? [[No one else.]] Would you mind, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u155	First of all, I would like to ask you, Sir, honourable Member Janez Podobnik. I can practically agree with your debate. I have not talked about parliamentary supervision, and as many Members as you think it is necessary to regulate this, I am sure you will, I believe, arrange that Parliament will be given an appropriate role. However, I have talked about what you have been talking about, transparency and the possibility of all those who participate in this budgetary debate in one way or another. Because if it wasn't for the budget debate that broadest reflection, I'd say, about development, but what it is, in fact. I believe that this is, however, a fundamental strategic document, which is adopted every year in this National Assembly, and should be able to influence and comment on all logistics organisations, all regions, all political parties and all civil society in this Slovenia. If that is not the case, you will likely see to it that way. The Ministry of Economy has been the mother ministry until now, and this law has already "dried" in the previous composition of the former government. I was working with him at the time and, of course, our interest was to come forward with him and solve this problem, which is still the Ministry of Economy's interest. If anyone, then it's the economic ministry's interest to get things done. We estimate that the matter regulated by our law is not lost, but that it is now properly occurring in both budget changes. The Public Finance Act does not concern a one-year budget. We have made a major breakthrough in public finances here. I do not know if this has been sufficiently presented in the past year, because because of this need for rapid adoption of the budget, it is precisely this quality move that occurred in the legislation, then in practice somehow overlooked or certainly did not have the time to express and realize itself. But we are talking about the adoption of the annual budget now on the programme long-term approach. An integral part of the budget is a plan for the sale of state assets, which goes forward in time, is a plan for the development programmes of the budget, which also goes back 4 years. This instrumentation enables us to pursue the achievement of long-term strategic objectives. That's what I'm talking about. The Public Finance Act is a great opportunity because it brings partial debates to one place. It is an opportunity to come up with quality solutions that will not create problems in another area when they solve the problem in one area. This is the quality shift that was essentially referred to in my debate as moving forward and what we believe is, in fact, an appropriate way of dealing with this problem. I'm talking about method, not content. Once again, it has never been within our ministry's purview to regulate the content of privatisation, I don't know, energy, telecommunications, transport. These are discussions related to other strategies. I am aware that we have opened up a very wide area today. And I'd like to warn you again, we're talking about the riots. And the Public Finance Act is an appropriate way to regulate technology. But it can't solve the content, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pache, then Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you. You're having a budgetary debate. Gentlemen, there is no more budgetary debate in this National Assembly. The budgetary debate, let's say, destroyed itself at the time of the new business provisions, when you were members of the opposition, i.e. those who were supposed to be watching over the work of the government and government parties, made this debate impossible. And to appeal and to say that the transparency of privatisation should be achieved through the budget debate in order to achieve it through the Public Finance Act, please! The elections, unfortunately, showed the fact that the government is formed unilaterally and that this national assembly is to a good extent, let's say, only the extension of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So you won't find a debate inside this house. We tried to get her into a self-employed working body through Quiaz, which failed. You have achieved, not you, but, say, government parties, so that no important area of life, which will undoubtedly have a major impact, or I think that even the greatest consequence of the further development of the Republic of Slovenia, will be addressed even by its own working body; it will be attached to the Committee on the Economy, which is one way or another a very busy working body. And what will be the debate and, more importantly, what will be the effect of the debate on this subcommittee, to you or all of us, when we face an even greater privatisation gap in three years from the lack of legislation and partial resolution of individuals, let us say, interests in our society, and, on the other hand, partial resolution of the privatisation of individual entities in this society? In fact, I wanted to tell you briefly only that you will not have a quality debate in here. It is only a playful debate, which is the result of the formation of the Slovenian government. Once again, do not support the proposal for a law on the privatisation of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u159	I would like to emphasise further that we are moving towards a course of courtesy in which the government, on the basis of the amended Public Finance Act, will be able to change the rules of the game by means of instruments available to it at the time of the adoption of the budget from year to year and we will be able to look at it here; perhaps the budgetary control commission will say something, but otherwise we will become statisticians. I strongly oppose that. And there's something else I'd like to say. I do not have a problem with the credibility of Secretary of State of the Strmščnik myself, but this topic seems to me to expect the Chief of Government here rather than the Minister. However, it is not that things happen, as they like to do in government, if the skeleton is hot, that the Secretary of State is sent. At least I want to see the minister here. I don't think it will turn out to be cynical, but probably not prophetic, but if the telecom concession with too much expectations doesn't work again, we may suddenly become mature again for a different regulation of this legislative area. And there is something else I would like to say about the credibility of the Secretary of State. I trust him that he's convinced of what he's representing here. However, I imagine from the same government that another secretary of state or minister would explain with all conviction that the law on public finances does not show that it is a matter of such importance as the privatisation of state property. So, as it once shows, today it shows that this is how it is covered, and in February it showed quite different, in the almost unaltered composition of this coalition. So let the ladies and gentlemen stick to some rules of the game also in their own decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'm also surprised by the withdrawal of the law on the privatisation of state property. In view of the fact that the government somehow avoided or did not wish to implement the conclusion that a special law on the privatisation of banks would be adopted, this policy is now continuing, complete imprudentness and lack of control, at least by this national assembly and through the national assembly of the public. That's what we say, our privatisation of state property is done through the lobby. I agree with Mr Pecett that the reference to the budgetary debate, where these purchases should be included in part, is included in the budget, that this is something similar and so tangible as last year's snow. This year's budget debate, including during this coalition and this coalition's budget debates, will not be held in Parliament. It is therefore unreal to hang and refer to something completely unheard of. It is to be feared, and the Slovenian public must be afraid of what will be the final gain of the privatisation of state property, if the government flees to total non-transparency, completely hides itself to the public and parliament, not recognizing any institutions that are supposed to exercise control over privatisation. It is quite clear that we can now say from this city that there will be even greater anomalies, greater misversions, more crime than ever before. I do not know on whose behalf the government rules, whether the government, on behalf of the people and on behalf of the electorate, or whether the government is solely on behalf of some lobbyists who work "100 per hour", but work solely for their own interests, do not think about the future of the Slovenian nation and are actually going to vulgar capitalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u162	Anyone else want a word, please? [[Nobody.]] Does this mean that we can conclude the debate at this point? [[Yeah.]] Okay, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on this proposal for a decision. First, we'd find out if we're locked in. We can check it out, please. What kind of button do you press, like "for" or something? I can see from here that some cards are in, and people aren't here. Just a minute, let's take a look. Let's have a little more patience. 41 are present, so I'm assigning a 10-minute break. Now I see the situation is improving. Please, if, colleagues and colleagues who listen to this session, join us in order to be able to vote. We'll be there in a minute. [[...]] Now I find that we can move on to decision-making. We therefore vote on the proposed withdrawal of the bill. We're voting please! Of the 53 Members present, 29 votes in favour, 19 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw that law has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. The next item, this is the 10th point, is, as you were informed, moved to tomorrow afternoon. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Please, Mrs. Plaželova.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u163	The law, which is now under third reading, is a major novelty of our corporate law, in particular in two areas. In the area of regulation of accounting rules and annual reports and in the areas of so-called corporate actions, that is, more detailed, more detailed arrangements, mergers and regulation of an area that has not been explicitly regulated in our corporate legislation so far, so-called division of companies. Many discussions on content and individual solutions have already been held at first reading, in particular at the home committee and in this national assembly at the second reading of the law. However, since there is clearly another issue that is no longer the subject of the third reading amendments, it has been raised in a way that might shed a wrong light on the solutions of the marriage, I would like to explain this issue once again very clearly. It was understood, therefore, that following the amendment of the law, if we are consistent, Article 32, which amends Article 228, the power to decide on the use of profits, i.e. the fundamental corporate right deriving from the share, should be transferred to the Supervisory Board. Of course, the law does not know such a solution. For the law explicitly, in accordance with the rules of the profession and with the arrangements they know elsewhere in Europe, clearly delimits the composition of the annual report. The composition of the annual report is an expert task, which is the responsibility and duty of the administration - to regulate the competence to receive when the annual report is drawn up and to also deal with the issue of the use of profits. With regard to the use of profit separates two institutes, namely net profit - net profit is the difference between all revenue and expenditure, after deduction of taxes. As regards the use of net profit, the law first provides that it must be used to cover any transferable loss and to create reserves for which the law or statute provides that they must be filled. The residual profit after the net profit is the so-called balance sheet profit, which is the profit that shareholders have at their disposal, in the sense that the Assembly decides to use the balance sheet profit as before, and may use this profit, decide to use it either by paying dividends to shareholders, or to others, by law or statute of permitted purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Please, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u165	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Economy, in its opening remarks, found that the applicant had complied with all the amendments adopted in the second reading, and from this point of view the proposal for a third reading was properly prepared. This is also confirmed by the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. You have a comprehensive report ahead of you, and you will not mind me not reading it, but I will limit myself to some of the issues that have been specifically raised in the debate and are subject to amendments and are also worth the attention or treatment and then the decision-making here at the current hearing. In the review of the amendments, I would mention only some, not the most important, but those who have received either different opinions or are particularly interesting, but also important. And if I go in line, the first is the amendment to Article 5 where we have two amendments: the amendment of the government and the amendment of the Joint List Group. In fact, it refers to the use of the Slovenian language. And here is, as you can see, the proposal to introduce the text and the participation of workers in management. Indeed, workers know that they are involved, workers' representatives, even in the supervisory councils, and also otherwise participate in management, and that it is important for them to communicate with the administration and in societies to define here the particular kind of diction that we propose. The government has agreed and the committee supports this amendment, so that if this amendment is adopted, the decision on the government amendment becomes irrelevant. At Article 12, we have three amendments. I would mention here one which is particularly important substantive and which has been quite discussed and also shared. This also showed a vote on this, but the amendment of the Consolidated List is supported, i.e. that the deadline for the composition of the annual accounts should move from 2 to 3 months. The vote was 4-4, so the amendment was not supported and it is worth discussing and defining here at the assembly. We will certainly discuss this, but the Committee has identified itself in such a way that it has not supported this amendment. The government's amendments are supported by the committee. It is particularly worth talking about Article 15, which discusses how business books are managed. The second paragraph determines when an entrepreneur or an undertaking, small businesses, manages business books through a simple bookkeeping system. Surely, you have all received or heard a number of comments from small entrepreneurs, their association of the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions, that the original solution proposed by the Government would severely reduce the possibility of keeping a simple bookkeeping, in order to impose very cost-effective burdens or could also reject, in particular, small entrepreneurs, start-ups. And there are two amendments to this article, or three. Two are proposed by the government and one is proposed, or two amendments. One is proposed by the government and one is proposed by the Economic Committee on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The difference between these amendments is that the government, in view of the comments I have mentioned, has somehow tried to set out the criteria that it is possible for an entrepreneur or an undertaking to manage a simple bookkeeping in the event that revenues from sales in the last business year are less than 10 million tolars. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia proposed to the Committee to adopt an amendment that was somehow more understandable and broad-minded and to ease these criteria so that more small businesses and entrepreneurs could manage simple accounting. The Committee proposes and adopts this proposal and proposes its amendment, which sets out three criteria. The average number of employees should not exceed 3, says 3 employees. Annual revenues should be lower than 10 million tolars. This is the same as the government's proposal. And the average asset value should not exceed 6 million tolars. Thus, an undertaking that meets or does not exceed at least two of these criteria can lead simple accounting after this amendment. This is again intended to make it possible for small entrepreneurs, in particular start-ups, to allow smaller costs, which are particularly important during the start-up period of the small business. Further, to encourage, in particular, new entrepreneurship. And yet another argument which led the Committee to decide on this amendment is that, yes, the level of revenue does not guarantee the equality of undertakings in relation to different activities and it is therefore appropriate to apply other criteria. Then it is still a very important 137th Article, where we have four amendments and, above all, two would be highlighted here. The Government in its amendment number 2 proposes, and this is again linked to the management of bookkeeping, or with the deadlines when a system is used, in point 9 of the Government proposes that simple bookkeeping is proposed under the provisions of this Act, a solution which will be definitively adopted today to be used for the first time for the financial year 2002. The proposal of the Chamber of Commerce or Chamber of Commerce was that this deadline was too short and that it would make sense to extend it by one year. For this reason, the Committee also identified itself and then proposed its amendment to amend this point 9 by applying for the first time for the 2003 financial year. This is then linked to the end of this period for the management of simple accounting. The Government proposes to terminate this provision from 1.1.2004, meaning practically that companies must go from that date to a double bookkeeping. Once again, on a proposal from the Chamber, the Committee decided that the analogue, as I mentioned earlier, should begin to move this year to 1.1.2005. This would allow for a longer transitional period for the preparation of enterprises and professional organisations carrying out accounting transactions for these companies for one year. Let me mention, by the way, that this is a very large number of companies and that this is also the reason why this deadline should move. Let me briefly mention the amendment under number 4 proposed by the Consolidated List and the government does not oppose it. In particular, the proposal that the data on the property and financial situation and the business outcome be transmitted by the company to the members of the Economic and Social Council in addition to the public authorities. This makes sense because this data is necessary for the negotiations of social partners on development policy, wage agreements and the like, and this is also a condition for the quality work of the Economic and Social Council. On behalf of the Committee, I propose that the assembly adopt the two amendments tabled by the Committee and the amendments supported by the Committee. At the same time, I propose that the National Assembly fully adopt the law. Finally, in order not to advertise again, on behalf of the Committee, I propose that we adopt an additional decision, on the proposal of the Slovenian cooperative association, which points to some of the problems that will arise in the operation of cooperatives with regard to the implementation of this law. We therefore propose to the Government to examine the comments of the cooperative association of Slovenia and, if necessary, to prepare appropriate amendments to the cooperative law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr. Kelemina, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! This is how I will briefly try to define myself on behalf of the Group of Members. In particular, very quietly and without media support, typical of certain cases, and their professional critical analysis or political analysis, without the critical analysis of the professional public, which is almost everywhere, whatever is happening in this country, without the critical voice of small shareholders and, most worryingly, without the critical voice of workers and trade unions, the ruling coalition changes the regulation of the management of companies by announcing that we are in line with European regulation. The European Union has not yet regulated the adoption of a specific guideline, although its proposal was prepared in the so-called Fifth Guideline, for the first time in 1972, then in 1983 and lastly in 1990, including both the English and German governance models. This demonstrates the importance and sensitivity of this area to the social economic arrangements of each country. The Social Democratic Party considers that the current legal regime under the old law governing the relationship between management, the Supervisory Board and the Assembly of Shareholders is appropriate. However, the proposed amendments to the amendment of the company law are detrimental to our further development. The Social Democratic Party pointed out this with the amendments it had prepared for the second reading of the law and wanted to maintain the current relationship between the administration, the supervisory council and the assembly. Among the most important powers of management authorities is certainly the adoption of an annual report on the business and decision-making of the division of the balance sheet profit. This was, according to the current arrangement, under the responsibility of the general meeting of shareholders on the proposal of the Supervisory Board. In the new arrangement, however, the Supervisory Board will decide for itself each year whether or not it will confirm the annual certificate. If the Supervisory Board approves the annual report, this will be automatically adopted. However, the meeting of shareholders will be responsible for the adoption of the annual report only if the supervisory board of the annual report fails to confirm or, in one case, if the management, management and supervisory board leave the decision to adopt the annual report of the Assembly directly. However, the Assembly is to decide after the amendment of the Company Act also on the division or consumption of the balance sheet profit, which will be linked to the annual report adopted. Before that, however, the Governing Council itself will be able to accept this. If we just remember, not long ago we received this in the parliamentary bench, I think that some analysis of the business operations of the previous period or last year, where, if I am not mistaken, there was a profit of some over 300 billion net profits and then you can imagine what sums the supervisory councils and the administrations of companies will actually decide on, so to speak, without the responsibility of the assembly, but also small shareholders. In short, the relationship between the powers of the shareholding authorities will be subject to change every year. The amendments to the amendment of the Company Law therefore do not in any way imply the taking of European standards or more consistent German regulation than is reported to the public, but rather a non-regulation that will certainly not lead to more responsible management, but which can serve the purposes of illegal or unpredictably continuing concentration of former social capital. Nor is this withdrawal of the law on the privatisation of state property, which we have previously discussed, inherently, but it is, of course, part of a change in the whole system of legislation, which, of course, will concentrate capital and which will cause very big changes in our country in the system as such. In fact, the supervisory councils were most likely to see that limited liability companies would come from share companies, where they could make a 100% decision. This would, of course, result in large corporations, large companies, which could, of course, be the main shareholders of the banks. This would, of course, rule the whole power, so legislatively, executively and judicially and democracy in our country, can be forgotten by such systems, such measures. If I just give a brief warning, let's say those main directions, if I'm allowed, the changes that are now the most important, what actually happened to the administration, the supervisory councils and the congregations. If only when the annual report is adopted, mention is made of the fact that the Administration has not been able to submit the current legislation of the annual report to the Supervisory Board before the hearing at the assembly within the time limits laid down by the statute and in accordance with the law. However, following a new proposal, the Administration must draw up an annual report within two months of the end of the financial year and submit it to the Supervisory Board without delay. If the annual report needs to be revised, the annual report should be submitted together with the audit report. The annual report should also include a proposal for the use of the balance sheet profit to be submitted to the Assembly. The role of the Supervisory Board under the previous law was that the Supervisory Board was obliged to draw up an opinion on the proposal for the annual report and to submit it to the Assembly for its consideration. Now, after a new proposal, the Supervisory Board shall have the power to verify the annual report and the proposal to eliminate the balance sheet profit submitted by the Management Board, and each member of the Supervisory Board shall even have the right to review and verify all the grounds for the annual report to be submitted to it at its request, unless the Supervisory Board decides otherwise. The Supervisory Board shall then draw up a written report to the Assembly on the results of the verification referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, following a new proposal. In the report, it must indicate how and to what extent it verified the management of the company during the business year. If the annual report is accompanied by an audit report, the Supervisory Board shall take a position on the audit report in its report. At the end of the report, the Supervisory Board shall indicate whether, after final verification of the annual report, it has any comments and whether it confirms the annual report. However, if the Supervisory Board approves the annual report, the annual report shall be automatically adopted. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board must deliver its report to the Administration within one month of the submission of the annual report, otherwise the Management Board must immediately set an additional deadline not to be less than one month. If the Supervisory Board does not issue an additional report within the additional time limit, it shall be deemed not to have confirmed the annual report by the Supervisory Board. And so on. Determined by the new Article 274. For example, in the case of the previous arrangement, when dividing profits, the Assembly had jurisdiction or concluded on the division of profits on a proposal from the Management Board and on a proposal from the Supervisory Board. However, according to the new proposal, the Assembly will be responsible for the adoption of the annual report only if the annual report is not approved by the Supervisory Board or if the Management Board and the Supervisory Board leave the decision to adopt the annual report to the Assembly, as I mentioned earlier. And so on. In short, the whole range of changes that are newly defined in the congregation is, of course, substantially reduced to the extent that shareholders, especially small shareholders, will not have a single word. And so, of course, again on profit, profit sharing, between powers under the old legislation, between administration and new, between the supervisory board and so on. In short, it is a matter of great competence for the governing bodies, and the Assembly is either ignoring or neglecting, and in particular the dispersion of small shareholders, which has now somehow been defined or done in the ownership system, the small shareholder will be lost and virtually we will no longer have it. We can also see that it is often a matter of concentration of capital that, even through fraud, existing owners or managers of companies from small shareholders try to attract shares and thus, of course, take over the majority stakes in companies. In addition to all these matters, which are taking place in the area of large companies, the conditions of employment of small, small enterprises are exacerbated. We have always talked, especially this year, about simplifications, against the Anti-Biroocratic Programme and so on, and on the other hand we really tighten the business conditions of small entrepreneurs. This occurs in this law in the area of the management of business books and certain other documents. In fact, small entrepreneurs are required to do so, or the authorities would like to see all small entrepreneurs run a double bookkeeping. This, of course, means an increase in the cost of doing business, which is certainly out of the question for small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, and extremely damaging the competitiveness of small entrepreneurs, which will lead to a reduction in the number of small entrepreneurs and, of course, to larger systems where they will be significantly more easily monitored. All these claims, which also the proponents somehow advocate in this law, that the current system is not sufficiently transparent in the business of small entrepreneurs - let me just say in explanation, and this is also the opinion of our parliamentary group - that this is not true and that simple accounting is also extremely transparent and that any information that anyone wants from keeping such accounts for review is possible. We don't agree with this tightening of business, keeping small business books. And despite the fact that it is now kind of a craftsroom - I hope that this will be accepted - with the amendment, that the censorship for those who could still manage a simple bookkeeping, three employees and 10 million net traffic and the value of assets at the end and beginning of the year would be about 6 million SIT, so one of these two conditions. Our assessment is that this will significantly reduce the number of those who will be able to keep books a little easier. So, instead of simplifying the system, what we always say, both with the anti-biocratic programme and with other big words, on the other hand, we tighten the conditions. But it's not just that. In addition to these harsh conditions, there is still a whole range of other matters that weigh small businesses, ranging from financial discipline to a whole range of other issues, not long from the VAT law and so on. In short, things tend to be on top of each other, and the goal of all of this is certainly what I have already mentioned. In short, let me end by saying that because of all these changes that have taken place and are crucial in this regulation, our Group of Members, given that in the second reading the National Assembly has refused to listen to our reasoned comments and our amendments, will not adopt this law in the third reading. And I can only point out that, as soon as we decide to do so, we will submit a new amendment to this law. The parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Kavčič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u169	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and others present. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we see the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the company law as a quality and European comparable fundamental economy. We believe that there is room at this stage for less strategic revisions of this law and some have been supplemented. We have done our best to listen to the interests and impulses of various stakeholders for the good design of this law, from the craftsmanship side, including the accounting services, the associations of members of the supervisory boards. We have assessed some of these initiatives as constructive contributions, but, of course, they are, in some cases, completely understandable and legitimately, interested applicants have, of course, gone a little further than they might have thought was realistic. That is why, in relation to individual amendments, we have deepened into content, and I believe that we have taken a smart midway. Among other things, let me say that on the Committee itself we are many members of this, i.e. four members of this Committee of eight, have decided and have not supported the proposal of the United List of Social Democrats concerning the extension of the deadline of two to three months for the issue of statistical statements. I must say that the argument on the working body itself was quite flawed and needed to be deepened in this proposal through the Committee itself, and we also came to the view that we would support this proposal at the plenary session and therefore support the extension of the deadline also for the issue of statistical statements from two to three months. Otherwise, we have supported those proposals in the various stages of this law and have developed them ourselves in directions that have contributed to reducing administration, increasing transparency of business, reducing the costs of economic operators and promoting the competitive structure of the Slovenian market. That is why we have also decided to support those proposals that go towards separating the procedure that takes place when the business entities are registered, both legal persons and independent entrepreneurs, so we have supported the simplification of the process of setting up this entity itself and, of course, decided that it is prudent to substantiate a separate view of the procedures followed by an inspection at the stage of the operation of the individual business entity. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we therefore support the adoption of this law and we also support the adoption of amendments, as I explained in more detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? Please, Dr. Bayuk on behalf of NSI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! On behalf of New Slovenia, I would like to state our position in the key dimensions of this law. New Slovenia will not support this law. And because he cannot support it in the good news, because we also doubt that we are all really aware of what is really going on with this law and of what are the goals that are leading the government and the government coalition today that we have this proposal under consideration today. Yesterday, the representative of the opposition asked the Prime Minister publicly if he could explain to us what we really want to achieve with these amendments, which will legitimize the possibility of substantially reducing the rights of shareholders in our companies. There was no answer. We expect further answers from the Minister. However, we will not hear any arguments at this meeting. The fact is, we are told that this is a European law. Europe, we have already explained, Europe does not know such a law, does not have uniform guidelines and it is not clear what such things are being adopted on behalf of Europe today. Shareholder rights are crucial to the future of our economy. This is completely ignored by your coalition, and today it suggests this, and you will certainly vote for that too. However, I would just like to say that we will work to see that the fundamental changes to such a decision as will be made today will also come. Since we are confident that once the Slovenian public understands what really happened with this change, how to manage economic societies, it will also require that. The time will come when the political responsibility for this action will also come on the agenda. We cannot support this law, we will not support it, and with all the strength we have, we will try to explain to the Slovenian public what has happened here in the name of Europe. Already in the sad story of the privatisation of former social property, this new chapter, one of the saddest, will help us to have even greater concentration than we have achieved so far. Thank you very much. New Slovenia cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] If you don't want another word on behalf of the parliamentary groups, then we'd like to start by discussing the bill as a whole. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports, so I limit the debate to five minutes. Mr. Peterle signed up first. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I see this topic very much in connection with the debate I had at the previous item on the agenda. In my opinion, it is for the same purposes or for the same purposes and evidence, it is not missing, nor does it need to be specifically listed. Because those who will obviously take care of additional concentration of power in the economic field know this, and those who oppose it, as well as we know that we understand precisely as simple information as that one and the same people have so far been members of three supervisory councils, but they will be able to do so in five. It is said that the strength of some in the immediate family will be further strengthened, and you know that some clans actually control everything in Slovenia. I am not surprised that yesterday the Prime Minister did not know, I think he did not know any more than he did not want to answer the question of the opposition party or opposition MPs. Yesterday, the excruciating silence, or strange interpretations, of course not presented on television, turned out to be unusual love on television, as it was said, some parties we knew differently, but there was no real issue of what was said, nor did I see anything like it in the media. So, now it is, it is very clear that there is an additional investment in impreciseness, because I do not imagine that the concentration of managerial power can lead to greater transparency. I see this effort quite in line with what I have already said, by limiting the power of the personal sector, whose core element or base category is a shareholder. If we followed a little, but those who followed know what the power of the shareholder in the West means, what the status of the shareholder means, we would remember how the Swiss Air shareholders exercised their rights before the recent, and of course we would know that there are no such concentration of management power in the Western world. And when I talk about it, and when I read these things, every day I remember that poster that's supposed to be about shareholders, but the sheep were painted on it, that's the relationship of this coalition to shareholders. And as the leader of our delegation has said, here the finger may be going faster than you think it's going in the right direction. Of course, because I speak only in person, I cannot support this law in any way, because I think that literally investing away from the normal standards applicable to shareholders, the governance structure, the management power of the democratic development world. We can fix this marriage very soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Come in, please. Who else wants a word? Here today we have heard two different explanations. One is European and the other is not. Perhaps the representative of the Government would state which of the grounds the Government has actually led to the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u175	In part, the argument that this area is not governed by one European directive is true. As has been more extensive in the explanation of the proposal for a second reading and as reflected in the declaration of conformity, i.e. individual parts of the areas, corporate law, are governed by 11 European directives. Their content was explained in the text of the First Treatment Act, which regulates what individual of them governs, and the individual areas for which harmonisation of the need is also explained in the text of the First Treatment Act. As far as it is concerned, otherwise, I would have wanted to, but since I was expressly invited to keep the Rules of Procedure open, that in the third reading only the amendments and articles that were the subject of severe readings were not subject to amendments, I would like to reexplain what I have explained in the introductory statement. Firstly, it is not true that the proposer of a law or government would have wished or achieved by these articles that the most important matters of shareholders should be decided by the Supervisory Board. It should be made clear that the text of the bill has been prepared within the framework of the Phar project in cooperation with the Danish Institute of Corporate Law under the guidance of Prof. Dr. Doralt, one of Europe's largest, most recognised experts in corporate law. And this text was then the basis for the introduction of the draft law at first reading. The solutions involved in deciding on the adoption of the annual report, which is, of course, another issue than deciding on profit, are not some solutions that would be specifically designed for the amendment of the law currently under consideration, but are solutions that are virtually in the same way known by the German "Actien gesetzt" and the German "GmbH gesetzt" and, of course, the corresponding Austrian laws. Our corporate law is fully shaped by a German model, just as most of our legal arrangements for historical reasons are based on a German model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? By the way, we are discussing - so that we do not listen to the government's representatives, please - about the bill as a whole. Please, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u177	Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't mean to call, but I'd like to say a few points. I fully agree with the objective of this law - the shareholder must be killed. In fact, everyone loves the shareholders when they need their money; but when the shareholder comes on the day, he says, but I have such and such rights, there is no one who understands it. I think this marriage is going in the wrong direction. Instead of giving the shareholders more rights than the law now proposes, it limits them. Therefore, personally, I do not want to be a shareholder of any Slovenian society, because I have no rights unless I buy a large share. Another time. In Slovenia we will need some other institutions such as professional shareholders. These buy a few shares, go from meeting to meeting and are terror for management. And that's very helpful. I wouldn't go as far as this is happening or it happened in Japan when there were actually professional companies that sent a letter to the management of society and said, listen, we're going to get there and we're going to do this to you, unless you pay us. This was a terrible fear of corporate leadership. Good. It seems to me that this law should be stopped here and re-thinked. It is true that the government now has a lot of support in these societies for people who worked in the previous regime and later became shareholders in one way or another, so I think this law is meant for these people. It will also be necessary for shareholders of a company, in particular small shareholders, to unite and go to a congregation of companies and really require clarifications there. Right now I've been out there somewhere, and this time the most company has its annual meetings. And when you look, if you're a shareholder, what they send you, how do things explain to you that you can vote then, I'd say we're still very far from that. If we really want - perhaps this law is also meant to get as few foreign shareholders as possible - to limit foreign ownership, then this is a good way. We need to be open, that leadership is open, and that the shareholder has a view of the things that happen there. It's impossible under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Jansha!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u179	I'm glad that today's discussion is possible, but it wasn't yesterday, even though we had the whole government sitting in front of us, who sent this law to the third reading, and no one knew what we were asking. Neither does the Prime Minister, unfortunately. The fact is that the fifth guidelines or guidelines governing corporate law have not yet been adopted in Europe. So far, three have been prepared: the first in 1972, the second in 1983 and the last in 1990. The latter took into account both the German and the Anglo-American models. However, this Fifth Guideline has not yet been adopted. Different countries have different corporate law or legislation. Each model has its own special features. What we now introduce with this law is not known at some point. Two of them are the most controversial. To increase the right of supervisory boards to account for shareholders' rights, one of these points is. The law expressly provides that the Supervisory Board, when adopting the annual report, may also decide on the allocation of the balance sheet profit. This is what we believe is at stake in this solution. Another issue previously expressly denied by the government representative is the concentration of decision-making in the hands of even more groups of people than it has been so far. Even now, given the specificities of the Slovenian economy, if you have read, I think that the financials have been published a while ago, the list, I think that 30 people who sit each in three supervisory councils in Slovenia are the largest companies at the top of this 100-largest scale, and then they decide many things. Now the law limits the number of memberships in the supervisory councils to three; anyone can be in three. If this goes into five now, it means that this number, which is now 30, is going to be reduced to 20, which means more concentration. It's probably not deconcentration. Here too, in my opinion, it is disputed that, of course, the law does not lay down any qualifications for membership in the supervisory council, although this is a very important decision-making matter. Yesterday I said that the law prescribes certain conditions for the lowest official position in the State Administration. Nothing for the Supervisory Board. I believe that in some countries such conditions are not established because there is, in fact, such a way of managing a market social economy or a market economy that has been in use for decades. It's been around for centuries and more. So that's the kind of marriage Germany, for example, got back in 1870, if I'm not mistaken. With us, this is at the beginning and a little more precise regulation is probably necessary, even when it comes to qualifications. Simply what colleague Kelemin said when representing the views of the parliamentary group, and to a large extent he also followed this, or the same things, is also true of Dr. Andrej Bajuk. None of this was denied in this performance by a government representative. The fact is that it is not possible to say that this law is in line with the European Union's guidelines, as this Guideline has not yet been adopted. And it was also misinterpreted yesterday by the Prime Minister.The fact is that the rights of shareholders, in this case especially of small shareholders, are being reduced. The fact is that governance is concentrated in the hands of a smaller group of people than it has been so far. All of these are things that don't mean a step forward, given the arrangements we have so far, but a step back. That's why we're against the law. And I think it's very important what Dr. Bernick said last time. By this law, we will certainly not attract foreign investors because they are not interested in such power-sharing in the management of companies where shareholders have fewer rights and the supervisory councils have more rights. I'm sure you don't. This is another aspect we should consider before pressing the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Who wants another word, please? Yes, Mr. Ferry Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I don't object to the opposition's colleagues being right about a lot of things. Still, I don't think that's the reason we didn't adopt this law. However, this requires the problems posed by them, including some other problems, I will mention only two or three of them, which I see myself, require one thorough analysis of what is happening and what is happening with the ownership structure and with the change in the ownership structure in companies and, consequently, what economic consequences this has, not only for individual companies, but also regionally. It is no coincidence that the differences between regions, instead of shrinking, are increasing, which is a trend and a policy, say the European Union. I am not sure what my colleague Janš says that if we were to prescribe an education for the members of the Supervisory Board in order to settle this administrative matter in such a way that it would be okay. One of the principal reasons, after all, is the owners of those who normally decide who they are and what they are. I know the solutions outside - well, some of you really have experience from America or from other countries - in European regulations, I don't know if there are formal conditions for members of the supervisory boards. It is, of course, a very sanctioned responsibility. And that's trying to regulate, and that's right, and that's the way to get a better set of control councils. Secondly, when I talked about changing ownership structure, it is very worrying to me that in a number of companies, for example, in the company from the region from which I come from, which has been very respectable and successful for many years, in which I have worked, the share of internal equity has fallen from 27% to 3%! Simply the workers sold shares It was one of the reasons that there was a takeover that was declared as a friendly takeover, but it was actually a friendly rape, so to speak. And now crying about the consequences of what's going on and what's going to happen. There are more cases like this. Second, institutional shareholders, funds, parastatal, one and the other that are in companies. Many say, and also by numbers, they prove that the tendency is to draw profits from these companies through as much dividend as possible, thus actually making them poor and allowing them to develop. The worst part is that this is happening in less developed areas, and that's also why it's some kind of invisible spill and differences are increasing. Someone will say, okay, according to market law, let capital be easily available to shareholders. In normal circumstances, that's the way it is. In fact, however, the consequences must also be seen, which in situations that are not yet perfect, have what consequences. And a variety of other things. This would require a thorough analysis of what is actually going on and then also see how to respond to this, including in the legislative field, including in the company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u182	Mr. Jansha, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u183	I think the thing, my friend Ferry, is the other way around. From the point of view of some more equitable and quality regional development in Slovenia, the possibility of even greater concentration of economic power is significantly worse for even regional development, significantly worse. If instead of, I don't know, now that it's expanding, let's say, the possibility of cooperation from three to five control councils, if the number of those who participate in control councils, let's say, will decrease from 200, let's say, to -- let's say, for comparison, the numbers aren't accurate -- to 120, they'll still be significantly smaller from Prekmurje than they are so far. Really, that's the first thing. Secondly, tell me if it is possible that someone in the five control councils is doing this work in a quality manner. This is simply not possible, colleagues and colleagues, because it is not a professional function, otherwise they get some very good meetings to participate in, but if you want to participate in the supervisory world of a medium or larger firm, you have to monitor the events, you have to read the material, you have to follow the balance sheets. This is done in addition to regular employment and everything else that man does in 24 hours. It is impossible to do this quality work in five supervisory councils. I don't think that's possible. Maybe he's some kind of super capable guy who can do it qualityly. But I don't think that's possible on average. We do not weigh this law or this thing from the perspective of shareholders, at least not unilaterally, neither from the point of view of managers, nor from the point of view of self-employed persons, but we must weigh matters from the perspective of the national economy, from the perspective of the interests of the national economy. From this point of view, there is a proper relationship that allows for the creation of as much value as possible, what must be our leadership, and also some normal logical division of power, if you so wish, in the performance of a corporation or economic society, is also what is universally capable of accelerating development. Even if we don't find the right measure, it has a negative impact. However, as for the concentrations, I repeat once again the arguments you have cited in favour of faster regional development, but this concentration is impeding but not accelerating.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Bayuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank my colleague Ferri Horvat for his words and I would like to draw the attention of all colleagues and colleagues to one key conclusion of his words. We should do some smart, comprehensive analysis of what's really going on and where it's taking us. This is exactly the key argument that we have advocated, and we believe that there has never been such a debate. Just because it's not clear to us yet, and I'm sure that we all know the stories that he himself mentioned, each of us knows two or three stories about how the workers were tricked and sold their shares at 10% of their value, to whom or what, it's not known yet. All these institutions that we have created and have on paper have really not acted in defence of these people's rights when it was the moment. What do we do now? We'll have a nice marriage, and then we'll study, and in a few years, we'll be sitting here, and we'll hear again, "Yes, it's a shame that we didn't put things in a different way at the time." The sad story of privatisation will be even sadder on the basis of this legislation, which gives those people who have used this void either the legal void in the law or the void in the State's actual involvement in this area to be even stronger in the economic field. Dear colleagues! It's a serious matter. I think that the words of my colleague Horvath must be seriously considered and that it is time for a deep analysis, not for swift procedures and the legislation of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Two Members mentioned the analysis. I believe the government did some analysis before it designed these marriage solutions. In this regard, can you perhaps explain to both colleagues how this is done, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u187	As I explained, the whole professional task of drafting the text of this law was entrusted to the Danish Institute of Corporate Law. I just want to explain something about the control councils. First of all, the Supervisory Board is an authority of shareholders. The shareholders shall decide on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board was created in larger companies as an authority to allow, based on the assumption that each shareholder does not have sufficient expertise to exercise control over how the management manages the business of the company, as the Company Act says. In short, the Supervisory Board is not a "deus ez machina" called by someone third and represents the interests of someone third, but it is an authority of shareholders. There was a lot of talk in the debates, and there was a lot of linking the law on companies with privatisation. The Company Act itself regulates the normal corporate structure of companies and is now the case for most companies that have long since completed the real estate transformation procedures or have been created since 1990 as a company with a full private capital injection. In short, the largest number of companies is such. Another explanation concerning the guidelines of the European Communities. Corporate law is not a single concept and the 9th Guideline, which is only in the draft, does not regulate, as previously explained, corporate law. The individual aspects of corporate law and, in order to comply with these aspects, the amendments to the company law have been drawn up, are regulated in the 4th and 7th balance sheet guidelines governing the content of the annual reports and consolidated annual reports and the disclosure of these data in the first publicity guidelines governing the publication of these data in the two guidelines governing, one merger and the other division of companies. All these guidelines, however, address these issues precisely because of one very important principle, namely the so-called principle of capital conservation, which is to be ensured, not for the protection of shareholders, but for the protection of business entities with which the economic service enters into business relations, so that shareholders with different corporate acts do not eat up capital, as they are called, so they do not eat with dividends and other capital operations, because capital companies are characterised by the fact that their shareholders are not responsible for their obligations. Therefore, the only final guarantee is that creditors who enter into a business relationship with this capital company in good faith will in fact receive the fulfilment of their obligations, so-called capital, capital in the accounting sense of the word as a difference between all the assets of the company and all the obligations of the company. This is the common denominator for all these guidelines and for which Europe first started to deal with all these aspects of corporate capital actions. The fifth guideline, which has been discussed, has indeed not yet been adopted, precisely because the fifth guideline is intended to form a so-called European society, i.e. a company which will have the same corporate structure, irrespective of which Member State will be established. However, as has been explained, this guideline has been given a number of debates in the bodies of the European Union for so long because there are at least three basic forms of solutions to these problems on the European continent as regards the corporate structure. Two of the most extreme, German and French models, and the intermediate form known by Switzerland in its corporate law. So the argument that the purpose of this novel is not to comply with the guidelines is not clear, that it is clear to those who are already dealing with these issues and are already in force. Indeed, the rules on the use of profit allowing shareholders to decide only on the part of the profit referred to by the law as a balance sheet profit which is actually available, i.e., which is residential after the company has covered potential losses carried over from previous years, since the company can, under the current arrangements, postpone the payment of losses for 5 years and, in the meantime, if it generates profits, the shareholders may even pay the dividend from that profit. This provision, which has been the main object of the attack, shall be abolished in accordance with the European model in view of the principle of maintaining the capital of a shareholding company or capital company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u189	From those words I understood as if the Austrian Institute had written this law to us. I am interested in the material, and this is my question whether Members could get a look at the material. I imagined that it had been prepared as a material on the basis of which our lawyers in the competent ministries had written a proposal to amend the law. I really want to make sure. I don't believe that this Austrian professor or this institute has proposed an increase from 3 to 5. I don't believe that's what the Austrians suggested. And I want to be clear about who suggested this kind of concentration of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u191	The expert proposal and the expert analysis of the areas of corporate law in which compliance with our law is to be carried out was prepared within the framework of the Phare project led by this institution. The entire material on the outcome of this Phare project was also published publicly in a publication published by the Maribor Institute of Economic Law or the University of Maribor - one of these two. They proposed that these restrictions on membership be lifted because we are the only country in Europe that knows the limitations on the membership of the Supervisory Councils or the only other country that still knows such a limitation on membership as I have explained to the same issue already in the second-reading debate of the National Assembly, Germany, which sets such a limit on 10 members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If there is no more debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the company law - third reading - date 14.5. Please, if you can find this material in your material, this four-page amendment. If you'll excuse me, we'll start by discussing the amendments. Article 5 first. We have two amendments here, and I hope you've found this material by now. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 5. Of course, as you can see from the material, they are excluded. If the first one is adopted, the second one is irrelevant. That's what the note says. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we close the debate on the amendments to Article 5? Good. We're moving to the vote. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 5. Let's vote, please! Of the 60 present, 46 members and Members voted against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on Article 5 as a whole. There is no need, because we are actually only in third reading. Okay. Article 12 We have three amendments here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Ferry Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u193	Colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the proposed amendments, I propose that we support the amendment under number 1 so that the deadline for the composition of the annual accounts is extended from two to three months. A type of argument speaks for it, I wouldn't list it, you have it in your explanation. Let me just point out that, for example, the time limit for data on tax liabilities is 31 March. For example, profit tax is a very important item for the final calculation or for the financial statements. However, there are a number of other data available, both for shareholders and for statistics and other needs, so that there is no need to force for two months, which should also be done on the basis of the quality preparation of the accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Pohorec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues after me because I will show them my back for a few minutes, as I have already shown to everyone else for seven months in this National Assembly, because this National Assembly has not yet gone through two cameras to record everything equally, us and our neighbours, a united list. I'm protesting this way and I want something to change. Now, for the first point of Article 12, or the first amendment. Our complex rules on the composition of final accounts, annual reports, tax forecasts are quite difficult. Frequent changes, a set of regulations, a multitude of official papers that workers, especially workers, have to do, are women, mothers in bookkeeping companies, companies, bookkeeping services, work in January, February, and we practically take two months to live in the year. I know the situation; they work day and night, Saturdays and Sundays and holidays. I therefore support the adoption of the amendment under Article 1 to 12. The same applies to the third amendment of Article 137 to postpone the deadline for the submission of annual reports from two to three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Please do not be angry with the other Members or Members of Parliament, the Rules of Procedure do not specify where the Member should look when he speaks. Who wants another word? [[Nobody.]] Can we close the debate on Article 12? Good. We vote on the first amendment to Article 12. Of the 60 present, 32 were voted in favour and 15. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since this amendment has been adopted, I ask you to look at page three, namely Article 137 under number three, this is said on page four. If you look at page four under order number three, the amendment that begins is "in the second paragraph of Article 137, etc. "We have already discussed this, so that we will now only carry out the vote. Can I? We are moving to a vote to make it clear about the third amendment to Article 137 on page 4. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 31 Members and Members voted in favour, 12 against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 12.]] The amendment was accepted. Now we return to Article 12, the second amendment. We have already had a debate, so we are just voting. So we're voting on a second amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 26 Members and Members voted in favour, 9 against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on the third amendment to Article 12. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 35 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the third amendment has also been adopted. We're moving on to Article 15. Article 15 shall have two amendments and shall be excluded. If the first amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 15. Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Our Group of Members will support the amendment to Article 15 under point two - this is the amendment of the Committee. But we're going to reject the government's amendment under point one. We've explained a little before what this is all about. It is about enabling small entrepreneurs to at least some extent still be able to manage a simple bookkeeping so that they will not be totally disabled in their operations. Despite the fact that we would like these proportions to be significantly higher, as it has been so far, for example, if I am not mistaken, there have been up to 5 employees of 26 million years of income, now I do not remember the second data, but I know that these two data were very important. Now we have reduced this to 3 employees and 10 million and 6 million assets. This is actually for craftsmen, no matter what the Chamber of Commerce has suggested, I find it very unacceptable. I think that this will contribute to the fact that many of us will leave business as an independent entrepreneur with us, because it will simply not be able to pay the costs that it should pay for its complex business. This cost will not be able to calculate, of course not, to hire an accountant or to pay all these costs. We have already disabled or imposed them on VAT, and they cannot actually manage it if they do not have a trained staff, pay for it all. Indeed, certain structures thus get jobs, educated structures get jobs, but regardless, I think, as in other countries, especially Germany, which protects small entrepreneurs, small craftsmen, that we should also strive to simplify records, to simplify them, so that the independent entrepreneur can keep certain records himself, of course in a very transparent way, transparent rather than trying to disable them. I firmly believe that this amendment, when fully implemented, if there is no change, will contribute to a wide range of entrepreneurs, including at the expense of this and, of course, other additional burdens imposed by this government on small entrepreneurs, a number of their activities will be forced to close. This will certainly not have a positive effect on those who employ the majority part and who are newly employed and who are expanding. So we're going to support the amendment under number two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Who wants another word, please? No one else. We can go to the vote. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 15. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 6 voted against 46 Members and Members. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on the second amendment to Article 15. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 48 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 137th Article, where we have an amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here we have another amendment on page 4 and the fourth amendment on page 4. I'm putting it all to the debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we close the debate and get to the vote? Good. Then we shall begin by voting on the first amendment to Article 137. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 50 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 137. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 30 voted against by 5 Members. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 4. Let's vote, please! Of the 62 present, 37 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 4 has been accepted. I'm guessing there were no other amendments. We have also ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? I think so. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u199	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. In accordance with that mandate, the Secretariat would like to inform the assembly that, as a result of the adoption of the amendments to Article 12, the text of the draft law has become inconsistent with Articles 135 and 138, with regard to the length of the time limit foreseen for the composition of the annual accounts, which should be harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Given that the provisions of the law are not harmonised, I interrupt this item on the agenda and ask the government to prepare everything necessary to enable us to continue this point. This point is therefore interrupted. Now we have ten minutes to go, and I suggest we continue until 6 p.m. But we have a show out here at 6:00, just like you know. Let's use this time as much as possible. Is everything ready with regard to Point 8? Just a minute. Please, if we can get back to 8:00. Period back - Proposal for a Law on Plant Health Protection. We had two amendments here. Just a minute. Now we've landed at third reading. I note that two amendments have been tabled to the bill. We got all of this. That's two sheets of paper. One amendment was tabled by Nova Slovenija, New Slovenia's parliamentary group, the second amendment by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I am putting an amendment to Article 23 first in the debate. This is an amendment from the New Slovenia Group. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I would like to briefly explain our amendment, Article 23 of the Plant Health Act refers to exceptions to Article 19. Article 19 speaks of when producers of plants and plant products and controlled objects must register for the sale of these plants to the markets. We propose that this 23rd article, in addition to the exceptions, should also include one paragraph of what the local market means. The local market is a market that is up to 50 kilometres from the producer or processor of plants, plant products and controlled objects. Why are we suggesting this? It was simply for this reason that, in the course of the general debate, at the first debate on this law, it was found that a sub-legislative act would be issued for this area and that the government would be defined in this sub-legislative act as a local market, which is no more than 20 kilometres away from the manufacturer. We think it's 20 kilometers too small. If we are talking about the complementary activity of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we believe that this area should be expanded. That's why we're proposing that we write not 20 kilometers into the law. This would, in our view, be an appropriate solution, which would somehow be adapted to what exists in practice today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mrs. Beatenchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u203	Vice President, thank you for your word. We would just like to point out that the amendment is in fact unclear in important circumstances. It is not known which situation plant growers or processors are subject to a distance of 50 km, which is likely to be an important data for concrete implementation, so that we do not really know if it is good whether such an amendment can reasonably be operationalised in a sub-legislative act.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u204	I'm sorry I didn't hear you. This has been very misinterpreted. That is to say, if I understand you correctly, it is the substantive ambiguity of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u205	Mr. Vice President, if I may repeat. It is also a matter of legal uncertainty because we do not know what circumstances a plant grower or a plant processor is subject to 50 km. Is this an area of cultivation or processing, or is it its seat, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you. We now have two options: to complete the amendment or to just vote. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Article 23 states: Notwithstanding the first paragraph of Article 19 of this Law, small producers are excluded from the register and then listed. This addition to Article 23 says: the local market is a market that is clear from the producer or processor For us this doctrine is clear. [[...]] So, from the grower, that means, from his permanent residence. Unless it's so vague that we can write it down: from the permanent residence of the farmer. If that's to be understood as a vague diction. Of course, this supplement should be read in conjunction with all other articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u208	So, if I understand you correctly, Mr Sok, the local market is a market that is up to 50 km away from the permanent residence of the producer or processor of plant products and so on. Was that so meant?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Since this is a quick procedure and amendments can also be orally tabled, I propose that we complete this amendment with these words as you have indicated. It is said: "The local market is a market which is from a permanent residence..." and then remains as it is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u210	Mrs. Bitenchev, can I ask your opinion?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr President, this will probably also apply to legal persons. In this case, at least this should be said, from the permanent residence or from the place of the farmer or processor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u212	If I may now summarise this, do not mind the rapid procedure or as you said: The local market is a market that is from the permanent residence or seat of the producer or processor and then as the text follows. [[...]] Mr. Sok, is that appropriate? Please make sure it's written anyway. The debate is open. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. If we accept this amendment, some production organiser can organise production in three areas in Slovenia, such as Lenart, Celje, Vrhnika, and can unsupervisedly produce and distribute vegetables throughout Slovenia because it is a radius. That's why it's unacceptable to me. I say repeatedly in this law that we go to a time when we need to produce food in a controlled manner and protect the consumer, the buyer, the food we say all the time, and we experience more and more fears in this area. This control is not a fictitious policy, but it is a requirement of today's time. There are areas within which we define them in the plant protection administration, in order to organise controls that protect us buyers, consumers of these goods, crops and establish a control system. And with this amendment, we release and disable every control because the radius is too large if it was 5 kilometers, which I have my doubts about. Let's just think, this solution is not good at all, and I'm not going to back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u215	Look, I can't agree with Mr. Juban. Here, in Article 23, it is for small producers or processors who are not professionally involved in this activity. If I simplify that, I can say it's easy to defend. It is said that for that form of complementary activity, which already works somehow today when farmers on the local market carry and offer certain planting plants. If I come from our practical case, it is only that our farmers from Ormož will be able to continue to sell at the city market in Maribor. If this radius is not 50 kilometers away, they will, of course, be unable to do so after the adoption of this law. That's what Mr. Juban and nothing else is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I propose that we conclude the debate on this amendment. I hope you agree with that. I don't see any objection. We can go to the vote on this amendment, with these additions that I read earlier. Yes, you can. Let us therefore vote on this amendment. Of the 55 present, 20 voted against, 24 members and Members of Parliament. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Then here's the amendment to Article 76. It is proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want a word on this? Yes, please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Well, given that the applicant has not responded, I would point out, however, that the adoption of this amendment is very serious to the content of this law, especially to the administration itself, which is the central responsible body for health care. In fact, the interpretation of this amendment speaks of the fact that the deletion of point 1 is necessary because the following points well define the powers and tasks of the administration. It is precisely because of all these following points that we need the first point. Point 1 is in fact the most important point in which the administration participates, as we have adopted with the amendment, in the design and implementation of the plant health policy. Policy-making and policy implementation are based on those points that follow first. The deletion of this first point is, in my opinion, an extremely poor solution, and in such an important area as plant health and seminary, of course, certainly an inadequate solution. In particular, I am asked this question of the usefulness of deleting cooperation in the preparation of policy and the implementation of this policy because the Minister of Agriculture has the opportunity to appoint the so-called Plant Health Expert Council. This professional world, of course, is the one who also advises management. The management must cooperate with this expert council if we are to ensure that, of course, the work is done professionally and, to the greatest extent possible, the expertise is taken into account. In addition, the Council of Experts is expected to appoint expert groups for each section. So, stay inside of it. It is therefore imperative to cooperate with these expert groups. The first point is roughly addressing this most important area of expertise and, of course, I object to this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u219	Just for a little while. I support this debate by Mr Weber, and I think he is absolutely right in this matter and I propose that we do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you. Can we close this debate on this point, this amendment? Can I? Thank you. We move to the vote - amendment to Article 76. Of the 55 present, 21 voted in favour of the amendment, against 26 Members and Members. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 26.]] The amendment has not been accepted. With this, we have exhausted the vote and debate, of course, on the amendments in the third reading, and we are left with the issue of coherence. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law is violated. [[It's not.]] That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Of the 56 present, 36 Members and Members voted in favour, 10 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This point, however, is concluded and I have here an additional decision by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It proposes to the National Assembly the following additional decision - you have it in writing. Let me read it: "The National Assembly authorises the secretariat for legislation and legal matters to properly identify lists of harmful organisms, plant products and controlled objects in the preparation of the final text of the Plant Health Act." This is the proposed additional decision I am putting to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we can move to a vote on this additional decision. Please, let's vote! Of the 55 present, 43 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item as well as today's work. Please allow further notice. Tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we will continue the session of the National Assembly by addressing the 38th item, which is elections and appointments. In the context of this item, we will begin by examining and by secret voting on the election of the other Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, and then by discussing the proposal for the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia and the remaining matters relating to this point. We will then continue the meeting with the 12th item, in order of course. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the National Assembly that the 10th item, the Law on Foreign Affairs, will be held tomorrow afternoon at 2.30 p.m. As you know, we are now waiting outside the Big Band of the Ljubljana High School of Music and Ballet and I ask you to attend this concert. Thank you.
