ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Peter Levič, Dusan Vučko, Leopold Grošelj, Franz Pukšič, Janez Podobnik, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Roberto Battelli, Stanislav Brenčič for the start of the session, Villa Trofenik for the start of the session, Ivan Bozič from 11.30 to 13.00 hours, Franc Čebulj until 12.00 hours, Dr. Michael Brejc, Mario Gasparini, Maximilian Lavrinc for the morning part of the session, Matjaž Švagan from 17:00 p.m., Jelko Kacin for the afternoon part of the session, and Roman Jakič. Since we're going to be present, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards. We're detecting a presence. I'm asking you politely to press the quorum key. There are 46 Members and Members present. I find that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I welcome the representative with me. Today's follow-up to the 7th meeting of the National Assembly will begin by discussing the 8th item of the agenda - a proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia; the Committee will then proceed to the consideration of the 15th item - a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative; and then to the consideration of the closed 5th item - a proposal for a law on road transport. Next, the assembly will proceed to the hearing of the suspended 16th point - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act; and in order to proceed further. So we're going to move on to 8. POINT OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSER OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft Rules of Procedure were tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlik. Does the representative of the proposed Rules of Procedure wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The draft Rules of Procedure were treated by the Rules of Procedure Commission as a working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Commission on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. The chairman of the commission, Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure Commission, at its 5th regular meeting, addressed the proposal for a second reading of the Rules of Procedure. It addressed amendments to the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' parliamentary group, amendments to the SDS Group of Members and to the New Slovenia Group of Members. The amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which were tabled, were later withdrawn by letter. We have also considered the comments, proposals and warnings by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and the services of the National Assembly. We have also considered a letter from the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission proposing that the Rules of Procedure Commission, as its own, should adopt the amendment to Article 42, but that the necessary majority would not be involved after a lengthy discussion. Members of the Commission 7.6. On the basis of the implementation of the representatives of the proposed amendments and the representatives of the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, we have found that the proposal for a Rules of Procedure meets all the formal conditions for the second hearing and has prepared an appropriate partial report. 14.6. We have addressed and identified the amendments received until then, as is evident from the additional report and the review of the amendments. The review of the amendments shows that there has been a further addition after the meeting, but the Commission has not identified them. A letter from the Ombudsman concerning the consideration of the special report provided for in the new Rules of Procedure was also addressed to the Commission. This is regulated by an additional amendment to K274. Article 1(2) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Anton Delak will speak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable National Assembly! We're ahead of the task. The Rules of Procedure govern the internal life of the National Assembly and, of course, the relations with other state authorities. Sometimes it's said to be a small constitution. I would like to draw attention to the view of our Group of Members, which, of course, is not just the view of our Group of Members. The decision should be as democratic as possible, in such a way as to give expression to smaller parliamentary groups, and, of course, the work of the national assembly must be effective. Of course, there must also be a certain type of ingenuity. In our view, the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure allow this to happen. It is also clear that the Rules of Procedure cannot foresee everything. I would therefore draw attention to the responsible attitude of Members, to tolerance, because, as I have already mentioned, everything in the Rules of Procedure cannot be foreseen. Unfortunately, this is often not the case in our National Assembly. This will probably require interviews and agreements, both within the parliamentary groups and in the college, and perhaps even in political parties. The amendments that are aimed at the two points I spoke about will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Allow me to begin with Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the Rules of Procedure govern the organisation and work of the National Assembly and the exercise of the rights and duties of Members and Members. The act before us - I am thinking mainly of the content of the Rules of Procedure - will also have consequences for all the further acts that we will take in our house, which is supposed to be the basis of the legislative authority in the country. It is no wonder, therefore, that the name of the small constitution has also been adopted, as also the honourable colleague mentioned before me. The exercise of rights, as Article 1 says, means that everyone who has the right to decide also has the right to clearly explain his view of the content on which he decides. The product is good if views are given from all angles, with the majority taking and deciding on the content also taking into account opinions that were different from theirs. Practice has shown that most of the problems with laws that were voted by ordinary vote or by purely ideological ignorance of the majority. The draft Rules of Procedure before us began to arise in the middle of the previous term when the opposition was strong. Now that this content has been realized, of course, the situation is different. The opposition is weak, in fact it is only one third of all representatives of the National Assembly. Democracy, however, is an alternative, and above all, it is an alternative to allowing the word to be heard by other thinkers and, if possible, to be taken into account. In doing so, it is certainly necessary to find a compromise between infertile debate and substantive dialogue, which can have a significant impact on the quality of content. Rationalisation, the word rationalisation in the adoption of legislation, with only restrictions on debate, is not a valid term. We know which system is most rational about the debates, and we certainly don't want that. Of course, the word efficiency is something else, and efficiency is. The fulfilment of duties, as Article 1 says, means that the opposition must also carry out its duty, and be substantively critical of proposals towards improvement. For nothing is so good that it cannot be better. The pure restriction of the word to the opposition at this time is also irrelevant because, as has been shown in practice in the last period, in this mandate, we know, in essence, that the most irrational waste of time is the uncoordinated two-thirds ruling majority and the uncoordinated and incomplete proposals for laws that quickly enter the National Assembly. The Social Democratic Party of Slovenia does not oppose the new rules of procedure. It supports those proposals that can make a significant contribution to a better legislative process. We have therefore proposed, inter alia, the lifting of the vote on the article in full if the amendment has been adopted. This was one of the proposals that we think is perfectly normal and should have been accepted a long time ago. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we strongly oppose those attempts that only limit the time of debate and, of course, the correction of false arguments. This is also, of course, contrary to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure. The Social Democratic Party supports the public at the national assembly, so we do not support closed meetings unless this is necessary because of the confidentiality of the material under consideration. Dearly beloved, it is necessary to know that rule does not mean arrogantly to vote and to prevent other thinkers, but also to listen to and, if possible, to take them into account and thus improve the content. This is particularly what we expect when adopting the Rules of Procedure. The Social Democratic Party has submitted its proposals to the Rules of Procedure between the first and the amendments, which have also arrived later, of course, we will decide selectively, depending on the content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The views of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now that I had gone to the podium, I was first indebted or laughed at by fellow Members of the United List. It seems to me that then we will laugh and very sour when we realize that the group of Members of the United List was the one who allowed or brought to life such an act, such a state council rule, in which the opposition would no longer have any right. On the one hand, the Slovenian national party agrees with all those who have said that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are a small constitution. This is undoubtedly true, but in a small constitution we must not deny the articles and lay down large constitutions, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There has already been a speech on restricting the right of the opposition to speech. Here I would like to remind those who would like to deprive the opposition and otherwise thinkers of any possibility of debate, speech, arguing on a number of occasions, as we see in this national assembly, which will not allow them anything. I would remind them of the 39th Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which says. Under, in the chapter of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, on freedom of expression: Freedom of expression, speech and public appearance, press and other forms of public information and expression is guaranteed. Everyone can freely choose, receive, and spread their cheers and opinions. Everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature which has a legitimate legal interest in the law, except in cases provided for by law." In this regard, I wonder what this Parliament is, if we do not have the right to express our thoughts and we do not have the right to speak. Then what kind of parliament is this? Why have we opted for the parliamentary democracy that we have now cut off its wings, which we have been smashing and sealing back into some frameworks that have, in fact, been almost gone in the past 10 years in the former Yugoslavia? Where would you like to go? In 1945? In 1939? In 1937 or perhaps in 1927? We are against, we are against, we are against, we are against, we are against, we are against, we are against, we are against, we are against, we are In this regard, I can also refer to the 40th Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which states: the right to correction and reply. We can talk about replicas in this regard. Replica is the right to correct and answer in a slightly broader context. This is also what this proposal of our Rules of Procedure would take away from us. It is precisely gentlemen, who are very intense and wholeheartedly advocating this new rule of procedure, that they do not realize that in a short time they will be in a position called the opposition, and will no longer be members of the ruling coalition, but that the ruling coalition will change, so that one party will certainly remain in the coalition - this is the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Attempts have already been made by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to exclude the public from the meetings in order to close everything to cover everything with a bell from which nothing could come out so that the ruling coalition could do whatever it wanted. I wonder where that great democracy is, which is supposed to have been from the initial successes and from the initial steps of the Liberal Democracy. Change your name, become what you are. And then it will be substantially different. At least there is no need to hide behind the various human rights declarations and I do not know what else you are in violation of because of your positional power. Democracy will be greatly threatened, limited and violated by the new proposal for rules of procedure. Gentlemen, you who so want to go to Europe, at least here be a little European and don't be, I would hardly say Eastern European now, because also in Eastern Europe democracy has begun, somehow prehistoric or African or Malaysian parliamentarians. Even though democracy is being dragged into the land, it's going out with us. But perhaps it is from us that he leaves for those countries that there is a lack of democracy, which in Slovenia is becoming less and less. We are in a country that is intertwined by affairs, state terrorism, crime and other bad things that we did not really know so much some years ago. And now that certain ruling clicks can be covered together and put in place a legal obstacle, they will change the rules of procedure to the extent that this will all be legal and legitimate. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That is not why we are in our Group of Members, and we will never support this. And even if we were in the ruling coalition, we wouldn't support it, because, despite that, it is our duty to defend our country and our duty to defend democracy more important than to push a lot of things into our pockets to cover it with false conclusions and acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u10	The Rules of Procedure are a small constitution of the National Assembly, and it is adopted by a two-thirds majority and does not change from today to tomorrow. In recent years, a great deal of effort has been made to adopt the new Rules of Procedure, both by Members and by experts. Also at the beginning of this mandate, an agreement was reached between the groups of Members on the establishment of a joint expert committee to draw up a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure. The ruling coalition, however, has rushed ahead of this agreement and has done work alone within a few months that experts previously failed in a few years. Why is he in such a hurry? Probably because, as long as a large ruling coalition exists, it is a unique opportunity for the Rules of Procedure to be adopted. The new, pending Rules of Procedure bind the language to the direct representatives of the people. It restricts time-controversy and takes all power from the Member as an individual. It makes it difficult to put amendments into law. In the second reading, a Member, as an individual, is no longer able to table amendments. This can only be done by a group of ten Members or a group of Members. In the third reading, the Group of Members is no longer sufficient, unless it is very large. At least a quarter of the Members must count. There is only one such thing in this House today. What this means for the small parliamentary groups, Members of the Young Slovenia Party have become convinced on our own that the amendments are being tabled in addition to the draft budget, where similar measures are already in force. As such cows trade us with signatures, as they have been doing in making amendments to the amended draft budget, they seem extremely inappropriate to work in Parliament, we have also tabled some amendments to the proposed rules of procedure. As for the College of the President of the National Assembly, which will not be just a consultative body after all, but will become a decision-making body - it will decide on the legislative procedure, on the agenda, on the duration of the meeting, on the timing of the debate on a particular item of the agenda - I can only say that it means a proposed way of taking decisions in this body in some way of introducing a party's discipline. Otherwise, I cannot imagine that a Member, as an individual, is depositing his voice with the leader of the Group of Members, and he is then in possession of it. In short, the proposed solutions are poor, all the more so as democratic, and since the rules of procedure are written on the skin of the large parties, it would be ridiculous to expect Members of the young Slovenia Party to support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u12	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Rules of Procedure are intended to be adopted by the widest possible consensus of all political parties in Parliament. However, from the debate I have heard before me, I can conclude right now that it will probably not be so, or if those who propose the new Rules of Procedure will understand this language and correct matters in this sense, in this way that this can be achieved in the end. I don't mean to repeat it, but just for a little while. We also have the main comments in our Group on the three issues at stake in this Rules of Procedure. One is what, in our view, gives too much power to the College of the National Assembly. Otherwise, we agree that there is something to be done in this area, but as it is now written, it seems to us that the laws which the opposition would like to put into the procedure will remain only a dead letter on paper, as the college will simply reject them at this direction in the rules of procedure. The other thing that concerns us is limiting the debate in this state's highest body. We advocate that all Members be given the opportunity to speak on behalf of their constituents on this site, and that all the facts and all the reasons why they will decide in any way at the time of the adoption of the acts of the National Assembly. The third issue, which also disturbs us, is the restriction on the application of amendments. My speaker said how it was with the budget, but good, if an exception was to be made to the budget, and we agreed with that, we cannot agree that such a way of making amendments, subject to a large number, a quarter of Members and so on, would be necessary in adopting other laws in the National Assembly. Our Group of Members has tabled 25 amendments to this proposal. With these amendments we are trying to correct the rules of procedure in some way. It is important to be aware that some before me have said that this is a small constitution of the National Assembly, and I would not call it that, because too many times in the past these small constitutions have been violated and the Constitution should not be violated. With these amendments, we have tried to correct some of the things in this Rules of Procedure and you have the opportunity to support at least a good part of these amendments, and in the end you will also achieve that our Group of Members will vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure should, in our opinion, be written in such a way as to protect a weaker member of this Parliament. In any case, and it will always be the opposition. The coalition of ruling parties has all the arguments of power in hand, all the supremacy of power, while the opposition is the one who must look at the ruling coalition and actually warn it of different solutions, not to say the mistakes that are taking place. In this respect, I am also convinced that the rules of procedure should be written. Let me finish. It's just that there's always a rabbit running once, and there's a dog running another time. I hope no one believes that he will be the ruler forever, but these positions are often replaced. Our support for this Rules of Procedure will depend once again on how ready you are to comply with the amendments we have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the United List of Social Democrats, we are convinced that after eight years and after almost three years of intensive work in the preparation of the new Rules of Procedure, it is right that today we have a second reading and a concrete design of what the way of regulating relations and decision-making in the State Assembly should look like in the future. I would like to point out that, even in the previous term, criticism of the existing Rules of Procedure has been quite significant, but now that, I would say, we have prepared new solutions, many times on the basis of the weaknesses we have identified in the implementation of the present Rules of Procedure, there are, of course, different views and solutions to these issues. I think it is understandable that it is also right and I am glad that in the second reading or from the first to the second, we have begun to address the issues of the Rules of Procedure very specifically, because in this way we will be able to find appropriate and good solutions. At the time of drafting the draft Rules of Procedure for the first hearing, the debate was indeed the most general, even more so, in the part of the working body and later in the assembly, that it did not come from those concrete solutions that were prepared in the Rules of Procedure. Our starting point in the Consolidated List is that it is right to do everything to bring the Rules of Procedure closer to comparable solutions in other parliamentary democracies in order to address the weaknesses in the current application of the Rules of Procedure, which also meant the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which we have all witnessed in order to allow for quality decision-making within a reasonable time. It is said that no restriction, no taking of rights, but in quality decision-making within a reasonable time. We believe that many solutions are going in this direction. We would, however, like to point out that, from the already prepared amendments, which we have also tabled, and which come from the suggestions and warnings given by the Secretariat, which have been given by the expert services in the National Assembly and which we have proposed, I hope to say that they have taken very much into account, because they have been useful and have warned of poor or unclear solutions, that we have shown a great willingness to seek, in the second reading, as clear and acceptable as possible, the content of the Rules of Procedure. This applies, at least with regard to our relationship in the Consolidated List, including with regard to the amendments of the opposition's parliamentary groups, of course those who have tabled the amendments and who would like to contribute with their concrete proposals to finding acceptable solutions. Where there is an absolute negative attitude towards everything and no amendment, there is, of course, more difficult to talk about and more difficult to say what can and cannot be accepted. I am convinced that much of the proposals so far may be duly taken into account, whether now in the second or third reading, but I must say that we, ourselves and in the Group of Members, do not believe that we should break the basic concept of the Rules of Procedure as it is prepared. Because if we do this, we probably haven't reached the ultimate goal. This concept is linked to significant changes in the legislative process, in particular by strengthening the work of the parent labour bodies; this concept is linked to the need, not just the possibility, because the possibility exists already now for an agreement on the time of discussion in individual laws. I stress the agreement because the fundamental principle should be an agreement and an exception to some vote. Because as many times as possible, this will create such an atmosphere in the national assembly that we will not be able to act creatively and successfully. That's why I don't see any particular fear in this direction either. And the fundamental concept is the role of the college, which in its own way is very changing, and not in its own way. Today, some point out that the College will have all the power. The President has so far decided, on behalf of the College, after consultations. The question was whether his decisions were always prudent or not. But he's made up his mind. It will now be clear who is also responsible for programming work in the National Assembly and will not be able to blame the President for whether or not he has put something on the agenda. Above all, however, a guarantee is given to the opposition that each opposition group has one item of the agenda at each meeting, which no one, no majority, can prevent them from discussing afterwards. I am talking about the importance of the comparability of the Rules of Procedure with practice in other parliamentary democracies, and I would like to stress that I very much wish that this comparability would soon be not only through the provisions of the Rules of Procedure but also through practice. Therefore, it is likely necessary to ensure that the scope of Parliament's work becomes more normal in due course. And as he is today, he is too extensive and it is difficult to make quality decisions. To increase the quality of the proposals made by the applicants, I think, of course, the quality of the government's proposals, of any government, including those where I am now a member of the ruling coalition, as well as of the previous ones. We have always had many proposals, which we have changed substantially from stage to stage in the legislative process. I would also like to increase the commitment of our Members to the debate to come up with quality proposals and solutions, but not to the debate that we are just looking for each other or to talk about things that are far from the truth. I believe that with thorough and creative work in the second reading, many articles that will be open to the third reading will be able to give careful thought to how to complement and adopt the rules of procedure, which can be said to provide quality and democratic work in the national assembly. Finally, I would like to draw attention to, in my opinion, the very important responsibility ahead of us. For the time being, the Rules of Procedure provide that it shall enter into force within two months of its publication in the Official Journal. This is possible and at the same time a very responsible, very short time. It's possible, but it's a very short time at the same time. The changes in the way the new rules work will likely be or will, by way of conviction, be so great that we are not fully aware of them. Therefore, it is my suggestion that we also think during the second reading, because if we do not prepare ourselves well for the implementation of the new Rules of Procedure, and if we do not start its implementation, the legislative procedure is completely changed, we are well prepared, it can happen that the beginnings - do not misinterpret me - will be something like what they were when we introduced the quorum and it was said that the reason for the introduction of the quorum, one more key, those who confused us for a day or two in our particular work. Of course, it is not possible to compare with the introduction of the Quorum key and the new Rules of Procedure, because in the new Rules of Procedure there are many more solutions that are so new that we will have to organise ourselves completely differently in the parliamentary groups, each of us as an individual, otherwise in the working bodies, otherwise we will have to organise the professional services of the National Assembly. And I propose that, together, we think about this obligation, how to ensure its immediate success at the time and after the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Tone Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u16	Your Honor! That it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure, the evidence of this consideration or discussion in the second reading of an act, because it is obvious that the old Rules of Procedure have been exhausted, stretched out, came into a stage where we can also introduce a general debate in the second reading, which is not, however, in the present Rules of Procedure, but because the Rules of Procedure are not precisely written because it does not define certain things, it is also possible to do so. That is why I did not apply on behalf of the group at all, because I thought it was in the second reading, as the Rules of Procedure foresees, a debate on amendments and a decision on amendments. Of course, because it is obviously difficult to do some things that are done according to the measure of us, which are easier to take things and which does not bind us to greater responsibility, to some consistency, to some things prepared, then it is difficult to change the rules of procedure. We, for example, who have debated these issues in the business committee over the last seven years, are undeniably convinced, and regardless of the parliamentary groups, that it has reached the time that, after all the professional definitions, according to all the opinions that have emerged in the parliamentary groups - the expert group has worked for almost a few years over two mandates, has proposed some solutions. Of course, I am sure, and in the Group of Liberal Democracy, it would also make sense to take a real look at the amendments that have been tabled. We regret that there are so many amendments in the second reading to this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. However, they were created as a result of the negotiations and requests of that minimum, so to speak, which would be acceptable for as many as possible in the National Assembly, and this would become a state assembly act and not some party, coalition or, say, god forbid, what exclusive groups. Because we have also taken into account a number of suggestions made by the secretariat for the legislation and services of the National Assembly, and it must be said that some things have also been the result of difficult goodbyes from some way of work in which we have become entangled throughout all these years. But with some goodwill, with some weightyness, these amendments have come together, which are really too many. Nevertheless, it provides an opportunity, in the end, to have rules of procedure that will be effectively organised or that will influence the work more effectively, to be more transparent, to be able to influence the process in an organised and well-known manner, so that Members, Members' groups, the Government and all those who participate in the legislative process will have the opportunity to act in a manner and under conditions that will be clear in advance, and anyone who really wants to influence will also be able to do so. I certainly do not think that this rules of procedure have achieved what would be a goal in some final form, where, in fact, from this period in which we have an incredibly large number of laws and other acts in the process, and therefore some of the dilemmas and some of the issues on which opinions are shared and, of course, the question whether our rules of procedure can be precisely because of this nature of work, because of such scope of work, is already comparable to some other countries which have a tradition that have these things different. Parliaments have adopted significantly fewer laws, procedures are longer, time, for instance for emergency procedures, is really limited to a minimum or practically necessary procedures, at least in the form we have, they do not know. And I hope that, for example, this Rules of Procedure is another phase in the transitional period before we are likely to come up with improvements in the rules of procedure that will be truly comparable to other countries and, of course, that will meet the needs of the Slovenian State. We therefore believe in the Group that amendments that maintain the consistency of the original proposal are needed to improve the text and in some ways balance what has been proposed from the various parliamentary groups as exclusive, but today I think it is time to include in the text some things that in some way deviate from the basic idea, but do not fail in the final objective of making such rules that will enable effective work, transparent work and, of course, that will not limit anyone in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to the examination of this draft Rules of Procedure will be taken if they are voted on by 2/3 of the Members present. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We will vote on this proposal. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This brings us to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.6.2001. We also received amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to this article, of which three parliamentary groups are proposing: DeSUS, LDS, United List of Social Democrats. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 12 and on the two amendments to this Article. The first proposes three groups of Members and the second proposer is the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. So, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would say that as far as the first amendment, the proposaler of DeSUS, LDS and the combined list is concerned, so we can support this amendment. However, we are wondering how to reach the temporary leader of the Group. In this Rules of Procedure, this issue is not resolved, as the next Rules of Procedure state that the Group of Members is formed, I do not know, within 7 days of the establishment of the National Assembly. So that's what I'm warning you about. If we accept this, the matter remains open and, until the third reading, this question regarding the appointment of the temporary leader of the Group of Members can be found an appropriate business solution. As regards the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, we therefore propose that, in addition to the Vice-President and the President of the Immunity Commission, the other members of the Immunity Commission be included in the draft agenda. For we consider the Commission to be a college body, which means that the decision requires the participation of all members, not just the President and the Vice-President. Before the mandates are confirmed, the role of the Commission's mandate-immunity is extremely important and important, and for the accuracy of the work of such a commission, the Assembly of State should appoint the entire Commission at its first session, not only the President and the Vice-President. Such correctness in the process also ensures that all its members are elected by the entire National Assembly, I repeat, not just the President and the Vice-President. We are convinced that, despite the rejection of this amendment by the parent working body, such a solution would enrich the rules of procedure and that the rule of procedure would be clearer. Once again, we draw attention to the importance of the Commission's mandate, in particular in relation to the confirmation of Members' mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u20	The two amendments, one which we have tabled in two parliamentary groups and the other, which was tabled by the New Slovenia Group, concern the same problem. We were aware that the question of how to regulate that it would be indisputably stated that at the first constitutional meeting, we need to have an immediate mandate-holder committee in order to come up with a proposal to confirm the mandates, since there is no State Assembly until the mandate is confirmed, cannot work. There were two different approaches. Colleagues in Nova Slovenija believe that it would be better if an exception to a different rule - because a different rule in the draft Rules of Procedure is that, even after the practice of the number of members so far, we are negotiating, but we no longer agree on names, except for the President and the Vice-President, because we believe that the right of the Group of Members is, in view of the agreements in it and the right of Members to say where we would like to work, in which bodies, to determine who it will be. In this rule, we believe in the three groups of Members that it would be wise to leave the same way for the Commission to be elected. It is also said that in this case it is not a matter of appointment in the National Assembly, but only of finding that it is so composed. However, to be clear, we have foreseen that temporary leaders should report this as soon as possible, so that they could appoint a mandate-holder commission at the beginning of the meeting, but not that the President should be appointed, and then return to consult and so on. With regard to the question that you have mentioned, Mr Sok, regarding temporary leaders, I think that Article 11 has been resolved. In the second paragraph, it reads, "the representatives of the papers shall report to the President of the National Assembly no later than three days after the publication of the report on the outcome of the election of the names of the temporary leaders of the groups referred to in the previous Article", and they shall then have the opportunity and the opportunity to meet, to say who the President and the Vice-President should be, the number, and to the meetings of the national assembly, to communicate the names of those Members and Members who will work. I think that this problem can be successfully solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 12. We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the amendment under order number two has not been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 13 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The debate on this Article is identical to that of the previous article. In addition to the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Immunity Commission, the National Assembly shall appoint the members of this Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 17. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 17.]] I find that the article has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 16 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. So the concept of this amendment to Article 16 is in line with the concept of our client's view of the institute, which is called the Secretary-General. We propose that the Secretary-General's office be linked to the mandate of the National Assembly. Therefore, the Secretary-General must be attached to the mandate of Members as a function of the National Assembly. This is also a practical solution, as it cannot be assumed that this function would be performed by someone who does not have support, a majority support in the National Assembly. It is therefore necessary that, at the same time as the National Assembly therefore proposes to the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, he also propose to the Secretary-General or, as stated in this Article, no later than 30 days after the establishment of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 21 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. So, Your Honor, here we just wanted to introduce into the text already parliamentary practice that one of the vice-presidents is one of the biggest opposition parties. This has already been done in practice, and this has also been done and we just wanted it to be included in the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 62 votes against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It's 62 votes against 3. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 22 and on the two amendments to this Article. The amendment is proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group under 1 and under 2 by the three parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Our Group proposes that, in the last paragraph, Article 22, paragraph 4, instead of 7 days, the President of the National Assembly should, at the request of the Group of Members, convene a meeting of the National Assembly or a meeting of the College within five days at the latest. This may not be such an important difference, for seven or five days, but as the opposition could also be deprived of such a delay, so we propose that because of the discretionary right of the President of the National Assembly, or that this discretionary right of the President of the National Assembly should be restricted. We therefore propose that this deadline be five days. As regards the amendment of the three parties, the DeSUS, the LDS and the United List, the College would be closed to the public. We oppose this amendment and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 25 to 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 22. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 22. Let's vote! Two-thirds must be in favour of the Members who voted. We are also voting on Mr Barovic, the debate on the two amendments was opened at the beginning. [[...]] Mr Sok discussed it, then no one else, so we're just making a decision. We decide the whole article. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't pick up at the beginning. An explanation of vote means that I will vote against this article. Why? The College has assumed some responsibility, including some of what the National Assembly has so far decided on. Next, we define in the articles that the work of the National Assembly is public. Therefore, the work of the College, which has assumed certain obligations and decisions of the National Assembly, should also be public. I estimate that that's why this article and the one we're going to talk about later are the opposite. I will therefore vote against this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on Article 22 as a whole. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 58 votes against 12. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 24 and the three amendments to this Article. The proposed amendment under order number 1 is the New Slovenia parliamentary group, the amendment under number 2 is the parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the amendment under number 3 are the candidates of the three parliamentary groups of positions. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you. So this is not an amendment that would in any way benefit the opposition, that no one would think, but that the work would be more efficient and transparent. We would therefore like the word "predictably" to be deleted, which means that the matter would be more specific and that the intention of this Rules of Procedure would be made to the fullest extent possible. Indeed, this is the case - if I read the text to know what this is about: 'Thermal programme sets out the days for the meetings of the national assembly and the working bodies and a list of the cases and the days that are scheduled for consideration, when the individual matters are expected to be dealt with' which we would delete. That is to say, if something is specified, we must stick to it as much as possible. And I think it is in everyone's interest to be as effective and transparent as possible. This is also the point of this Rules of Procedure, otherwise we cannot explain things to ourselves. That's why we suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under order number 1, with the footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under order numbers 2 and 3 are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under two has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 25 and on the four amendments to this Article. Since the amendment to article 25 was also tabled by representatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, this amendment is not in the review of the amendments, but you have received these amendments on the bench, noting that the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia is identical to the amendment, which is under order number one, this is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Under the two amendments of the parliamentary group is also New Slovenia and under the three amendments of the three parliamentary groups. I am opening a debate on the four amendments as presented. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. For our Group of Members, Article 25 of this Rules of Procedure is one of the key articles in this Rules of Procedure. I think that the applicants will supplement this article slightly by the third reading, even with the amendments adopted to this Article. In particular, we propose that the word 'decisive' be replaced in Article 25 and replaced by the word 'proposal'. We also propose that, in the second paragraph, it be noted that the decision of the College is taken if it is voted for by the majority of the members of the College. Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure states that decisions are so important that they are certainly not to be left to the full College of Presidents in order to acquire some characteristics - we have written in this explanation a very hard word, "politburo", which would replace the National Assembly in substantive decisions, but we are convinced that these decisions fall within the competence of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly must act by taking account of all parliamentary groups. If the proposed solution were to be followed, by which the votes of individual members of the college would be weighted against the total number of Members of their parliamentary group, the opposition in this institution, the College of the President of the National Assembly, in our opinion, would only become some kind of puppet, completely irrelevant. In the third paragraph of this Article, we then propose that the text "at least one third of Members" be replaced by the text "the Group of Members". A third of the Members for the proposed decisions at the meeting of the national assembly on a procedural proposal is absolutely too large in our opinion. At this time, a third of the members in this National Assembly do not even have the Coalition Slovenia, and we propose that a third of the Members be replaced by the text of "the Group of Members". I think that such a solution would also make this article 25 acceptable to the opposition, which would also protect smaller parliamentary groups in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I believe that Article 25, as it is, is probably not a good trip for the work of this national assembly. Above all, I think it is necessary to ask here whether it makes sense for the College to have such competence and whether this will in some way increase the efficiency and quality of the work of the national assembly. In particular, in the light of the fourth indent, which also says that the College would in some way determine, limit the duration of the debate of Members and, of course, of other participants in the meeting, as well as of the groups of Members. I think this is one of the very important decisions of this House. According to my assessment, and also according to the practice we have in this House, we can find that whenever we have made restrictions, bans, we have done ourselves a left-wing service many times. When these restrictions were not before the assembly, the work was faster and it would suggest that we really consider the third reading. In fact, I propose that the function of a college would be to propose this option to the national assembly, and it is the national assembly that decides on these definitions. In particular, from the point of view of the content and the amount of part of the national assembly, it can be concluded that in one year's time, a substantial package of all the changes that are necessary for this country in adapting our acquis to the European Union will follow us. So, then we really have to ask ourselves, would it not make sense to have a debate, not to limit it? Indeed, many times in this National Assembly, the debate also leads to better and better final decisions. That's why I think a serious thought is needed. But I will not support Article 25 myself, and I will support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Štemberger has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. First of all, the amendment of New Slovenia and the amendment of the Party of Young Slovenia are not exactly the same. The amendment of New Slovenia amends two paragraphs and the amendment of the Party of Young Slovenia changes only one. It is true, however, that if the amendment of New Slovenia is adopted, the amendment of the party of young people is irrelevant. But it's about making decisions in college. We believe that if either of these two amendments is not adopted, this means introducing party discipline, which I have already talked about. Indeed, it seems unacceptable to us that the Member, once again, is depositing his voice with the leader of the Group of Members and that he is then in possession of it. So, we will support the amendment of New Slovenia; as long as it is not voted on, we propose to vote on the amendment of the Party of Young Slovenia, which we have received on the special paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Let me explain. I'm sorry I was unclear. Under number two, we will vote on your amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u40	The debate on this article has many aspects; now I will go to just one or one of them to give my opinion. This is what the adoption of the proposal would mean,'most college members'. Let us be realistic: this would mean that, given the structure of the national assembly, the minority could also decide. That's right, isn't it? Because, for example, there would be more parties with relatively fewer Members, and these could be voted on by two or three parties with a larger number of Members. So I think we need to be aware of that. And if we say that the solution now proposed is bad - and I accept this discussion that you say it is not good - then please, let us be objective, and let us acknowledge that the proposed solution is also bad, because it is likely that the legal solution, which would allow a minority of Members to have such power in college, to determine what is the limit, what is the agenda, what is the priority, which probably none of us would want, and such proposals were not well thought out. And now there's something else - customer discipline. First of all, this amendment assumes it to the same extent. Once again, on behalf of the Members of the Group, his representative would be in college; once again, with the majority of all, once with the majority of the number of them, and in any event, the party's discipline would apply. The other thing is that I do not want to start discussions very much in principle, but it is either the parliamentary groups or the parliamentary groups, given that they represent Members of the same party lists, whether they play a role or not. I think they do. I think that there is a smart border issue here, I will not say that there is no question of internal relations here and that, of course, in internal relations, an individual Member may also vote differently and then the thing is, I would say, an agreement in the parliamentary group, what does this mean, because its fundamental freedom of decision under the constitution exists. But to say that the agreements in the parliamentary group have no meaning, meaning and role will probably be difficult to accept, especially when we talk about how the future organisation of the national assembly in order to strengthen the role and responsibility of the members of the groups will be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have two replicas to implement Mr Ptræ, then two more debates, first Mr Jelinčič and then Mr Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I do not agree with what Mr Potsch has said. Because in the case he advocates, there could be only two members of the college, such as Mr Anderlič and Mr Potrce, deciding how it will be and how it will be. Then where is democracy here, and then where is the purpose of the college here? Then let these two representatives of the parliamentary groups meet together to agree, and so we will have to be quiet here in the hall and no one will have the right to say anything, or even if we say something, nothing will apply. So I absolutely support this amendment, and in fact it seems very strange to me, when, on the one hand, these two parliamentary groups on the nose defend the increase of minority rights in Slovenia, but in here they would prefer to cut minorities off and squeeze them into the hallway, and they would decide for themselves what is good and what is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Stemberger, please. Then there's the replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u44	I fully agree with my colleague Jelinčič and to some extent also with my colleague Ptræ. True, both our amendments and theirs are bad, ours is bad, theirs is worse. Therefore, I propose that the whole article be deleted. So when we vote on Article 25 in full, we vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The speakers actually said a lot of what I wanted to warn myself about, but still. The notion that there would be no clear agreement by the parliamentary groups, within the colleges, seems strange to me. In particular, I find it strange when it comes from Mr Potrč's mouth, who had taken up his rights as early as fourteen days ago, if the rights of minorities were threatened. All this work now that we will obviously have the dictatorship of the college with the majority, through the dictatorship of the largest party, seems to me to be similar to that of the former Yugoslavia, when Milosevic took the right to determine, by consensus, what in Yugoslavia was determined when he took autonomy to the autonomous provinces, and that was the end of the communication in Yugoslavia and the end of Yugoslavia. There is also, of course, an appetite after the end of Parliamentarianism in Slovenia. This is no longer a Parliament if it is so decided that this strong dictatorship of the College will decide everything. I do not think that we are yet such a mature democracy that we could abolish Parliament as a classical institution of democracy. And through that, I think he's getting in. If we adopt such provisions, our Slovenian public will have an appropriate opportunity to familiarise itself with them, and I assure you that it will reject them just as plebiscitely in public opinion, as it rejected the recent amendment of the law at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dearly and respectfully, I ask you to hold on to what you are in replicas. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . A lot of hands were raised. I ask the honourable whether they have volunteered for the debate because it cannot be understood only from the raised hand. Mr Peterle, then Mr Anderlich, Mr Tuckati and Mr Rupar shall have the floor first. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I have not been elected to Parliament for the first time, but we have not yet considered such a proposal in this house. I think it is one of the more unfortunate moves to propose a future regulation of our work with the help of the Rules of Procedure. I think that Article 25 is completely unacceptable and it would make sense for the College to remain a consultative body. With such solutions as are written here, not only in this article, there will be a completely different vote weighting and the granting of some powers that do not come out of the elections, and I think we will be in a lot of trouble with this. To avoid this, because if this is decided, if this is decided, then, of course, there will be opposition to college decisions in the plenary and we will probably have a long procedural complication and a long substantive debate despite the rules of procedure. I myself advocate that the College remain a consultative body. I think that we can actually come up with problems of a constitutional nature, because if this is the case and it is decided in college, I think it is also a matter of constitutionality, equality before the Constitution and laws. So, I am totally against Article 25, not just for this amendment, which can only partially solve the problem. I don't think we should afford to give such powers to the college. Although it says here that the vote should be taken into account by taking into account the weight of the votes that someone is bringing; but that is not convincing, I am not having this experience alone, and I will support the amendment, but I am against Article 25 at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u50	I am sure that Mr Rokavac and also some others have been involved in the misunderstanding of this article, and this arrangement at all. This is actually an arrangement that we now, say, meet in the following way: the college meets, something is said, and at the end the president of the National Assembly sets the agenda, sets the order, sets the time, sets, I don't know, a bunch of things. Since the college is envisaged for future as a body, as is the place where work is to be decided primarily, procedural issues, logistics etc., by no means of content, there is no way that a college decision can be reached in order to say that a point cannot be reached on the agenda. However, it is imperative that someone in this national council say what is the matter with urgent procedures, which law will go to that exact meeting. We are regulated by the other articles of the Rules of Procedure to make it mandatory for one bill, by emergency or by any procedure, for each group of Members to come on the agenda of the meeting they have decided on. These are, of course, other arrangements. In this article, however, we provide that in an organ that organises the work of this assembly here, this plenary, it sees the mood between Members and Members' groups. This is not about restricting the debate, this is not about the way it was presented, so to rule out that it will not be possible at all. Yes, Mr. Rupar, there's something else. I also read all the articles and amendments, etc. When you read another article, you will see what is really going on. That's all this is about. It's not cultural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u51	Please let the debater [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u52	You're jumping into words, you really aren't. [[...]] But that's your manners.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u53	Please, Mr. Rupar, stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u54	It is also important in the College that proportionality, in view of the representation of Members in the National Assembly and organised in the parliamentary groups, also reflect on the procedural issues that the College is expected to address. That's all this is about. Otherwise this same debate, when we talk about rationalisation, about some organised part of the national assembly, this same thing is going to happen - where? In the National Assembly. Everyone has a proposal, which will go to the agenda, which will go to the agenda first, which will be discussed for 14 days, which will be discussed over time, etc. That's for college to decide. If you think that in the 230 acts now under procedure, it is appropriate that we come here on the first Tuesday of the month or the third Tuesday of the month and that we all set the agenda together, then of course this is a very poorly organised work. This is what this article is about, to find out in advance what is what the government is about to implement the programme that it has just presented in the National Assembly and we have chosen a mandate holder and, of course, a government, we have authorised and what the government wants to set up at some point in time to put it on the agenda. On the other hand, of course, we Members submit, say, five laws, and no one in this house will determine this order, which law will come and why it will come and why not. So in this article, believe me, it's purely procedural questions, organisation. As I have said before: it was now that there was a consultative body and finally the agenda proposed by the President was proposed; whether he had a happy hand or had no happy hand, then it was here. Sometimes it was adopted exactly as he suggested, sometimes "we threw something down", the second time we "classed something up" of course, then there were votes on quick or shortened procedures. [[...]] With regard to this work, it is better if we know in advance the ratio of votes to be made in preparation for the meeting. And that weighting of the votes in college means that. If, however, you think, Mr Jelinčič, it is right that you decide on matters in the same way as four Members of Parliament as a group of forty-four only on whether something will come on the agenda or not - now I am not talking about the content - if this is the work of Parliament and that it will be effective and that it will achieve its purpose, then we are talking about two completely different things and this has nothing to do with working in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. They wish to refer to Mr Anderlich: Mr Jelinčič, Mr Rokavec and Mr Rupar. Member Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First, I would tell Mr Anderlich that quality does not depend on quantity. This way, four Members can think a lot better than forty-four. You said the college would actually do what the government wants. Then why do we need colleges at all, and why do we need Parliament at all? Come on, send us on vacation and make your own arrangements! You can weight the votes differently. After all, you don't have to write yourself 34% of the votes, write 98! At the end of the day, there is no significant difference. Basically, the most important question is whether we are going to democracy or not to go to democracy. Or some thirst for those positions they once had in the former Yugoslavia and would like to take that position back to the Slovenian political space. We're against it. Maybe we're just four against it, but we're four against it. With you probably as long as you're in a ruling position, you're all in favour; if you don't ever stand in a ruling position, you're going to swoop in and squabble, how unfair the rules of procedure are, and how everyone else is unfair, and you've always been righteous, who've always fought for everything to be balanced, to be just as it should be, and I don't know what else to be. And it always turns out that it's not true, that it's not true, and we always get you on the lie. You're talking about rationalizing work to make it easier to work. Yes, who will do the most in Parliament - the poor ignorant government, which submits 150 amendments to its marriage with 100 articles in 14 days, and over time 80 amendments, and then a year and a half later submits a law amending the law, which in 14 days is again 16 amendments to three basic articles. I'm asking you nicely, what's the problem here? Go look at the government there, not here in Parliament! However, it is clear and understandable that since the Prime Minister has ordered you to expel this in one way or another, you will do so. What is worse is that the current coalition parties are good at this because they do not realize that only the current ones are temporary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. In implementing Mr Jerovska, he wanted to replicate Mr Potrč, so that he has priority over the next three replicas. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I know, Mr Jerovšek, that we both know the difference between a minority in Parliament and between national minorities and you are probably engaged when you were working on this line. I am proud of 30 years and more of the regulation of national minorities' rights in Slovenia, and this is a particular issue. As for the question of this article, I would just like to say the following. The debate and the doubts may be whether you are talking about the facts and the truth, but of course there is another thing. I'm just going to take a look at where the changes are or aren't big changes that are being made right now. The changes seem to be one very big one, but not substantively. Who finally decides in the National Assembly? Most of them. This majority can be organised as a coalition to the opposition, but it can also be a random majority. But it's always up to the majority. It's the foundation of democracy. How do we get to Parliament? Someone gets - depending on some elections - a little more votes, someone a little less and so many representatives here. To say that's something we can't take into account, it seems to me - I'll say - strange. And probably even those who have a little bit less at this point, or those who can have more, we can be in a different position in the next term. I am not talking about this because I have already been in very different situations as a Member within the same parliamentary group. But look, as far as the college's competence is concerned, as far as who decides is concerned, it's only a matter of a clear definition. The president had previously made his own decision, now it's up to the weighted majority. What's better? In my opinion, it is better to know who is the one who has programmed, not the content, to accept the responsibility that this weighted majority will be responsible for the programme. Just to say that the opposition earlier, in the current regime, played a stronger role in the college, is simply not true. That's not true! The second is the question of some substantive decisions: the issue of the agenda, the reduced procedures, the rapid procedures, the possible limitation of the time of discussion - was decided by the majority in the State Assembly at the final stage. Now it's just being passed on by the same majority in college, but once again, it's up to the majority. The only difference is that the process is really rationalized here, because, you know, thank God, there is no such situation in this mandate, and we design the agenda in, say, one hour or earlier. Whoever is being corrected needs to remember some time in the previous term, they have also set up a cosmic agenda for the meetings of the National Assembly after a few hours. Is that rational? Therefore, do not tell me that each person at a meeting of the National Assembly can decide what will be on the agenda or not to have a major debate about this, it has also been substantive that we then voted, had procedural proposals, had breaks and so on, and worked for half a day or one day by setting the agenda. I'm just saying, the differences aren't that big. But whoever wants the National Assembly to work in the way I now describe it does not want the normal functioning of the National Assembly. I accept these objections, but I do not accept them in the way they say that this will be the end of democracy, and that is by no means true.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. To implement Mr Potrč you wish to replicate Mr Jelinčič and Drobnic, but we have three more replicas to implement Mr Anderlič, which is why I give them priority. First, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would only touch on the issue raised by Mr Anderlič, namely that the colleges will not interfere with the content of the debate. In fact, the fourth indent of Article 25, which gives the College the opportunity to determine the duration of each item of the agenda, may also be an explicit interference with the content of the debate and decision-making of this national assembly. And, above all, I would like to draw attention to that. I think this is, in my opinion, a step back in the quality of the work of the National Assembly. I am not saying that the present 115th Article, which speaks of the powers of the College, is the best. I submit, however, that the current proposal in Article 25 may in fact mean that the College will in some way over-entitle itself to decision-making rights, those which, in my opinion, should be the rights of each Member or Member of the National Assembly. And that's all I'm saying. I think that the provision of the fourth indent is one of the most crucial which, in my opinion, will lead to a deterioration in the quality of the work of the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I repeat to Mr. Anderlich, as well as to Mr. Potsch. What I said during your debate that you probably haven't read the articles is entirely true. You said that you did not limit the debate, that everything would proceed, but I would point you to the fifth and sixth indents of this Article. Finally, your performance has shown something else. So you personally and as the leader of the parliamentary group are terribly disturbed by the president of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor. This has been seen by this performance of yours, it is also seen by your cowardly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mr Rupar, I ask that these personal opinions Personal opinions on personal relations between individuals are not the subject of this amendment, so I remind you. [[...]] Please stick to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u64	I have the right. The Lord is afraid to listen to replicas, perhaps even pure wine. Thus, fear or opposition to its implementation was the president of the National Assembly in the person of Borut Pahor. However, he has the right to draw up the agenda now, has the right to influence or propose to the national assembly, and has the right to co-create the agenda. In this case, it was clear in its implementation that this would be very good if it was done by a college, so that the President of the State could be heard or taken over. The agenda itself may also be the only possibility for the opposition to somehow influence the course of the session. That is why, Mr Potrč, it is unacceptable for us to take over or to defend the College's agenda. Nor is it because each member of the College carries as many votes as he is in the parliamentary group of Members. This is unacceptable because - I warn you - you are forgetting this presence, which is a very important element in voting. So attendance is also very important today. However, it is unacceptable for Tone Anderlich to carry 34 votes. Then why don't we decide that each president of the parliamentary group would have one vote, as usual in all colleges, but of course there is another issue. And I would actually support that, and I will support that. I think the Young People's Party has made a similar proposal. Well, then, if that were the case, it all changes a lot. So it is that maybe two representatives of the parliamentary groups with a considerable number of votes could vote - let's say - the other five, six members of the college. Of course, that's not democracy anymore, and that's what I'd call counterfeiting democracy. And that's actually a pure fake of democracy. Just a comment, maybe. I absolutely will not support this - that the college decide how long one of the Members will be able to discuss, replicate at the meeting, is practical - this is pure nonsense! For example, the Member prepares for a certain point of the agenda for quite some time and then comes to the meeting and realizes that in the morning work it has been voted out, but now he cannot say what his work is, for which he has been preparing, but in my opinion it is totally unacceptable and is not fair, it is not fair to democracy, it is not fair to the people who have chosen us. You're simply going to make sure that the National Assembly is no longer needed. And in fact it won't be necessary anymore! If you decide that a law is uncontested, that it is accepted without discussion, then you do not need another here as "typers", those who will press these keys. That sucks - people pay me to just type here, sorry, I'm ashamed to be an MP! I'm ashamed! And these proposals are no different, Mr. Anderlich, but fear and pure cowardice, nothing more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. At the same time, I would like to start by thanking Mr Ptræ when he has so clearly explained what the College will do, so that it is now clearer to me that he will still have more powers than is stated here. On the contrary, Mr Anderlich is of the opinion that the colleges will not decide on the content. You're partly right - he won't decide the content because the content will already come, determined in college, and you'll just confirm it. That's right. And if all of this is accepted, then we have a situation when Parliament, this prey, this beautiful college ornament. That's right! Indeed, not only what Mr Rokavec has already mentioned, but also the ninth indent speaks of what is decided by the College - other matters for which this Rules of Procedure so provide. This can be fucked, in the way that Mr Anderlič and Mr Potrč have expressed here, practically everything. We have poor experience of how to break and how to interpret the Rules of Procedure when deciding with a power argument. And I am not actually in charge here, or I cannot understand that Mr Anderlič, when deciding on the electoral system, was a strong opponent of the majority system, and within Parliament the hegemony of the leading party advocates in every way possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u67	Mr Jerovšek, I ask you politely to refrain from personal disqualifications of your colleagues in the Chamber and stick to the answers to Mr Anderlič's remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u68	That's exactly what I'm doing. That's exactly what I'm doing. So we're [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, and then take each group of Members as an entity, and each group of Members shall have a vote and a majority of the votes of all groups of Members. This proposal strongly opposes the possibility of making a transparent decision in Parliament. Once again, the college will decide on all content, and the plenary will no longer decide on the content if this is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have two more replicas of Mr. Potsch's performance. First Mr. Jelinčič, then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. I absolutely agree with Mr Ptruč that the basis of democracy is indeed the rule of the majority over the minority, until this changes in the next elections. However, I would point out to Mr Potræ that there is no basis for democracy to prevent different opinions. This is a violation of the Constitution. It's not about someone saying something different than the others, or that's what this is all about. And the thing is, he can't be prevented from doing that. In voting by weighting the votes in the college, that is exactly what was going on. It would be a simple decision to make, both of which and this simply should not speak, because we, as a majority, have made such a decision. The majority shall have the right to decide whether or not to take a decision. However, he certainly has no right to decide whether someone should be allowed to give their opinions and arguments or not to say them. And one more thing. How will this weighting of the parliamentary groups be handled, but how will the college's conclusion be determined? It is said that you will be able to conclude, together with the Liberal Democracy and the United List, you will be able to conclude the college and determine what will please you. In that case, you don't even need us. Then we don't even have to go to colleges if you, by your own weighted majority, have already determined such a conclusion and then vote on what you are supposed to talk about in the National Assembly. Against this, I and the Slovenian National Party are fully involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Some of those words that Mr Jelinčič said before me are entirely in line with my thinking. In fact, if we are talking about organising Parliament's work, then it makes absolutely no sense for us to go majoring, to go weighting if we are talking about an organisation. This is illogical and pointless, including any other organization. But we're going to get into some sort of constitutional problem. For example, after the constitution, one can propose a law that can be dealt with. Then the majority, who will be weighted, will either postpone this law or refuse to accept it. Maybe she'll agree to give it up in 15 years. This will also violate the constitutional provision. So, we will come to the test with constitutional provisions in this way, because there will never be a hearing at the National Assembly, what should come in parliamentary democracy. If the College decides on content, on matters, then it will be a small Parliament. What has been mediated in the previous amendment to keep the meetings closed to the public suggests that it is an unfair purpose, that something should be bought under the table and then closed to the public. This is unacceptable, it is ignoring parliamentaryism, it is also ignoring the opposition, whatever it is. That's not the way the cards will be drawn forever. But we need to watch to guard what we somehow have; we already have little democracy, we will need a few more years to seriously put things in the right place. So, I'm even gonna delete Article 25. Let the college be an organizational body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, did you report to the replica or to the debate? To the replica? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u74	It will be difficult to find, Mr Drobnic, any Parliament in this Europe with a type of democracy similar to ours, so Parliamentary, that the meetings of working bodies are public. That's not what this article does. But I'm sure you won't find any place where the college is a public matter. But because it's really about things, organizational, procedural, logistical, etc. Indeed, Mr Jerovšek - I don't know where he went - you won't find that any parliamentary group with two or with, say, 50 members with one vote; and it is up to the majority of the parliamentary groups. Why not? Because they have other things rationally organized. Because they know that even if the college decides in a way to say four, plus four, plus two is ten, plus eight is eighteen, and it already has a majority in this National Assembly, 18 Members; then we come here and repeat the whole story, and of course those who have - say 34 seats, we will repeat everything we have and vote here in a different way. What's the point? What's the point of that?Oh, my God! Because it's completely procedural. That's all this is about. You really won't find it anywhere when you call. We have compared the seven rules of procedure of the European countries. It's impossible, Mr. Tiny, not your marriage. If you decide, if you have 20 in the procedure, it is clear that all 20 will be scheduled for 20 meetings, and not all 20 in the first session to be convened. That would be wrong. That would be the cancellation of the power ratio, if you want, of the voter trust ratios and so on. However, you are guaranteed rights with other articles of the Rules of Procedure, and this will automatically ensure that one law, as you will assess, will be put on the agenda at one meeting. Because, then, what does the government have to do with the government's law, the constitution and so on, if it doesn't have the opportunity to come to the National Assembly with a proposal for a law, because, say, the SNS will invest - so long they will be able, probably no longer - that it will put in one law in every area, that it will submit an SMS, that it will invest New Slovenia, that it will be representatives of the minority, that it will be SDS, and we will have the thing completely blocked! That's how it's set. Mr Rokavec, you may not agree, but responsibility in this National Assembly is allocated proportionately. And Mr Jerovšek was wrong earlier when he said that I was in favour of something other than the electoral system and that I am now in favour of the majority. That's not true! I advocate proportionate representation in the light of the results achieved and the seats in Parliament. That's all I stand for! And if we want to have such and similar discussions, such as today's, on various procedural, procedural matters and I don't know what kind of matters to decide, then we have to do it somewhere, at some, say, a narrow meeting where they won't, say, all those who are bored with these procedures and the preparation of meetings. Everything else has nothing to do with this point. Restricting debates, as you say, is linked to the college's assessment that, for example, it will be for a point - what we had in the present Rules of Procedure, that the college could conclude - that, for example, one point is sufficient for one day or half a day, or that at each point it can be discussed for five minutes and not unlimited and so on. That was all in the rules of procedure so far. This is only rounded up, collected and arranged in a way like this, I admit, summarized by many of the rules of procedure in Europe, by many; go take a look and you will find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. To implement Mr Anderlič, the replicas came in the following order: first Mr Peterle, then Dr Bajuk, then Mr Jelinčič, Mr Drobnič and Mr Sok. Mr Sugar is waiting for the debate. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u76	I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. So, everywhere in the world, most of them in some way do their will. However, I have the impression, as far as I know the practice of other parliaments, that it does not do so exactly as most do here. Well, we are now talking about how most of them will exercise their power in democratic procedures. The big difference is whether there's some college where someone's missing or someone's not invited by accident, and so on, or whether it's done when someone can't come. [[manipulation has very large possibilities here]] ; therefore, it is a big difference whether a law given, and Members, is the starting point of this house, not colleges, because this proposal has been elected directly, whether this proposal is rejected at a college meeting or they are sitting and it is said 'we will take into account the Government's priority proposals, then we will put another opposition bill into consideration in each round'. So either it is eliminated in this way or it is rejected, if that is the case, in Parliament itself. And no, of course, by rejecting the agenda. I am on my own because I see how this kindness goes forward and this arrogance of rule, that we have as clear rules as possible that apply regardless of whether this majority or they have a majority. Today, those who have sometimes represented and worked for the present Rules of Procedure - that is, we did not come through with the European criteria in the first place. Today, however, they call on us to follow European examples. Where were you before, gentlemen or comrades? I am against this kind of courtesy and I am for as clearly set the rules of the game as possible, as it was to comply with the laws of chronology. The one who comes early has a head start and won't be eliminated by some college because someone doesn't like it. This is where I think we should take this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. To execute Mr. Peterlet? We'll go first to the replicas of your performance, and then thank you very much. [[...]] Dr. Bayuk, please. You're not going to replicate? Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would replicate Mr. Anderlich; when he said that college shouldn't be a public matter. Does this mean that all the documents we receive in college will then bear a code of confidentiality or secrecy? Does this mean that the documents we will then discuss there - because of them, if they come to the public, the Member will be able to answer to the court for the purpose of revealing secrecy or something similar, when everything is so hidden and not allowed to be heard and found out? But we are talking about matters concerning the Slovenian people, the Slovenian state and life in our country! Yeah, then what are we gonna do? Then what's to hide here and why hide? And you mentioned that you reviewed the rules of procedure of seven European countries and compared everything else. And you've also looked at other matters concerning Members of Parliament? Have you, perhaps, looked at the laws on Members of the seven European countries? Did you look at that? No, no, no. Mr Drnovšek will not allow you to do this, because Members must be poor and foolish and humble in the first place. I am against such Members, against such work and against such planning by the President of the largest political party in Slovenia at the moment. When you talk about how bad things are now, how everything needs to be fixed. Yeah, but it was all wrong for 10 years? Why, though, did you boast so much a few days ago that you did what was right if everything was wrong and everything needed to be fixed and turned upside down? There's something wrong here! There's something terrible about it! I don't think it counts most in the biggest political party in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Mr. Anderlich - well, now it's coming - we didn't get along well. If the college talks about content or decides on content, then I see no reason why it should be closed to the public. I spoke; when it comes to organizational matters. In such cases, it can also be found that it can be closed to the public when it comes to organisational matters. I don't know, but that's the reason - I think they need to be determined. We cannot say anything further: the college is closed to the public and the "shell" is closed for four years and the matter is over. The second thing I wanted to replicate to you about the possibility of speculative law-making, as you mentioned in some way, is that members of the opposition can come up with and submit laws following the current Rules of Procedure that block the wise written laws of the ruling coalition. You know, this could also happen to the ruling coalition, it's not any more correct or there's no possibility of speculation, it can do the same. Thus, these comments, which we have heard many times, are entirely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. So I certainly agree with those who point out that it is impossible to compare work in our Parliament with work in the Parliament of Western European countries. For they do not deal with the multitude of laws and the adoption of laws according to such procedures as we do at that time. I must also say that we are in breach of the existing rules of procedure, when we make up some laws, we accept that there would be a state of emergency in this country, something after a rapid procedure, etc. I agree with Mr Anderlich, who said that if, for the most part, it would not be given for him to decide in the College to decide with this majority in this National Assembly. But it's not the same. For the College, you suggest that it be closed to the public, while Parliament is unlikely to be closed to the public. Maybe someone would have wanted to, but I don't think that's gonna be possible. However, in view of this, I will read the last paragraph of Article 61 on the agenda of the College, which would or would not have placed the bill tabled by the opposition. But if it hadn't been written like that, maybe this 25th article would have been understood differently. See, Article 61 of the first sentence of the third paragraph states: "In the draft agenda, the President of the National Assembly shall include, on a proposal from each opposition group, one matter at a time, if it fulfils the conditions for consideration under this Rules of Procedure." Fine! Here you could make a point, and then you wrote: "If such a proposal relates to a proposal for a law on which the College of the President of the National Assembly must set a timetable for consideration under Article 119(1) of this Rules of Procedure, the President shall, by a decision on the inclusion of the draft agenda, wait until the decision is taken by the College." I myself understand this matter in this direction so that the college can decide and not put such a proposal on the agenda with the majority you will have in college. Correct this article with an amendment because it is not an amendment [[I went to look.]] However, this matter will be clearer and we will know that the opposition will have the opportunity to put its bill on the agenda. Otherwise, it is not possible for her to do so by this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has a replica of the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u84	In fact, it is true - because I see Mr Sok alone in this last set of discussions on the very thing - for misunderstandings. In the context of the articles, as regulated by the classification of agenda items, it is undeniable that the points referred to in Article 61 which are not competitive, i.e. where there is no need to set a timetable for the treatment of individual laws relating to the same treatment, there is no doubt that one is included on the proposal of each parliamentary group. That's indisputable. In the event that we have four laws or, I don't know, two, but sometimes we have even more, with the same content relating to the same matter, however, it is necessary to agree on the order in which the law will come on the agenda first. See a practical example: a few laws - even now you can look at - is in the procedure only because of this, with a single article that changes, just so that the law that systematically governs the whole area, with, say, thirty, fifty articles can not come. And if there are such laws, let's say theoretically, eight, you can -know, if we're only talking about sent-off groups - but any Member can submit them. Go see, in some areas we have a whole bunch of these laws! Is it really right for us to be able to make our own laws that govern, say, only one word, one sentence or I don't know what - we even had a case in the previous term, not so much at the beginning of the term, but also at the beginning of the term, that the same Members made more laws with the same content or just from the same area, just so that they were in the procedure. In this case, the last part of the paragraph shall be used. I am here to study this further, to look at it and to clearly write here that it is only these cases, and perhaps even some criteria or conditions that we bring together, when, say, the absolute order of things is, let's say, the first one. When the laws are the same when they regulate the whole, when a law is regulated more when it is regulated by a more comprehensive matter, it is certainly necessary to judge and say: not the one who was first in order, but the one who regulated this matter more qualitatively. This is what these councils are about, after all, decisions as well. Otherwise we have I tell you that in this procedure, the laws of 1994 - In the 1994 legislative procedure, some have been put in place to stop the procedure and not to allow certain issues to be settled, so of course that arrangements have been found in other laws. [[...]] Then we have cases where we're also here wondering if we can regulate things under another law. And we had -- I think in the previous session -- even one of those questions. And of course, in order to avoid all these issues, we have tried to put this in order - whether it is the right of groups - to put it on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The replicas have been made known, namely, to the implementation of Mr Anderlič you wish to replicate in order first Mr Jelinčič, then Mr Peterle and to the implementation of Mr Drobnič wishes to submit a replica of Mr Potrč - Mr Sok Mr Potrč. First he has the word Mr Jelinčič, then Mr Peterle and then Mr Ptrč. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Anderlič spoke about the order of the debate of laws and that some laws have already been tabled for the purpose of retaining certain procedures. That's right. But it is also a democratic parliamentary instrument known by all of free Europe. And this is a matter that is used both in England and in Germany, as in France, Italy, not to list all countries. It must be realized that there was already a breach of procedure here, too, when Mr Pahor put into discussion the government's law on duty-free shops, while my law was on the table - they simply skipped it! This has been done against and in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as agreed, because the government has agreed to do so in the framework of the coalition negotiations and in the framework of the coalition arrangements. And no rules of procedure, no law, no nothing. Now, we'd like to get this wrong thing into the rules of procedure, so that I can still have a scar in here. That's not going to work! In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, in my opinion and in the opinion of many colleagues, this is not the case here in the National Assembly. It is true, however, that this is the task set by the current Slovenian government to the national assembly and coalition and requires the coalition to do so. Because if it doesn't work out, certain parties will fly out of the coalition. They do not realize, however, that they will fly out of the coalition one way or another as soon as this Rules of Procedure are adopted, because they will no longer need them.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u87	Mr Jelinčič, I ask you politely to stick to the amendment to Article 25, not to personal evaluations, relations between individuals and coalitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u88	Madam Vice-President, I don't know where I've been personally, because the government is a group body, although given your implementation now I see it as Mr Drnovska's personal body.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u89	Mr Victory, you are replicating the implementation of Mr Anderlich, who has adhered to the framework and has justified the amendments to Article 25. I ask you so politely that this implementation is true within these frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam President, for your instructions, even though I've stuck to this. But to your discourse, which was wider, I responded as I understood it. In short, I don't know what this 25th article would want to do. The only thing I understand completely is that it is the intention to entangle the National Assembly, to prevent anyone from thinking differently and therefore to gain legal legitimacy. And against that, we are absolutely in our client.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u92	The thing is, it's going exactly the way I expected it to go. Mr Anderlič's words were very clear in relation to the sequence of legislative proposals that we discussed earlier. He said, "The advantage will have that marriage, that proposal that will be more comprehensive or more quality" - I quote literally. Of course, most will decide in advance, without discussion in this room, which is more comprehensive and which is more quality. Against this, I am fighting to determine so arbitrarily and aprioristically who is better or which proposal is better, and I see that I was very right and I still have when I oppose this issue. We can't afford that there will be one there that is accidentally or that is now a little bit more, say, that's good, that goes on, that's bad, because it's from the opposition, we're better prepared and we're going to play that way. In view of any proposal made by the opposition, the position may make a so-called better proposal. That's not how it works, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Potz will replicate Mr Sok's implementation. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Sok warned that if the conclusion of article 61 had been otherwise written, he would have believed that he was serious. I would argue that Mr Sok is right and that the conclusion of Article 61 should be amended because he is inconsistent with what we have written as an amendment to Article 119. By article 119, we wrote - and this is also the answer in some way or explained to Mr Peterlet - that if the law has not yet been examined and the opposition demands that its law be placed on the agenda, that this law has priority. This is set out in the amendment to Article 119, which responds if you read it, to all that you have just talked about. And there is no fear, no fear, because there is no wish for the law that the opposition wants to have as a priority or any opposition party to have full priority. And in this work there is also no smarter, more comprehensive, more systematic, I do not know which law there is; indeed, provided that the treatment has not yet begun. However, if the proceedings have begun, then the one who is already running "to deal" has the advantage. And I think it will be up to the decision on Article 61, as Mr Sok has warned, to correct and then to vote in favour of the amendment to Article 119, which has been tabled and which solves the situation related to the advantage of examining the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We still have a debater, and Mr Tsukjat wanted to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have encountered the first mistake of this material in this article, first of all a very bad and harmful chromosomal aberration or what to say. Look, this article is about important things. It is said that the college will decide on an emergency procedure, on a reduced procedure. It will decide whether or not a preliminary examination of the law is to be carried out. He will then decide to limit the duration of the debates of Members, the establishment of working bodies, the composition of the delegation and so on. I think these are some things that no one can decide on my behalf. And I want to participate in these matters, to co-decision what the Constitution gives me, and not allow any leader of the Group to decide on my behalf. And I think if I'm the only one in this national council who won't give advance consent, someone in his name decides, even though I'm the only one, this bill won't come out. On these matters, important things, about the establishment of working bodies and so on, I want to co-decision as a Member elected not by you, but by the voters. This bill won't work! Second count. To talk about limiting the duration of the debates of Members; a college that is supposed to be drawn up, and proportional to the number of members of the groups in question, should somehow decide on the duration of the debate, thus taking over the function of the Rules of Procedure. However, the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority. A college would be able to make a decision with a simple majority based on your calculations. So in college, I would be deprived of my right by a simple majority or restricted to the right that the Rules of Procedure would otherwise give me. I believe that there is a mistake in not being aware that the Rules of Procedure are in order to protect small groups, to protect an individual and to enable an individual Member to act as a Member, responsible as he is to be a Member. Therefore, this article will show for the first time how serious we are and how we are actually going to roll down the ice that needs to be broken, but I would not want to change the Rules of Procedure in a few months because of the demands of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. To implement Mr Cuckati, they want to replicate Mr Anderlich first and then Mr Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u98	Of course, the Constitution gives everyone the opportunity to actually act completely unorganized 90 times a day and not to meet at meetings of the National Assembly at all, but to decide as we think. But that's just not possible. This is simply not possible, and it is therefore necessary to regulate the procedures, the way we will get to the hearing and how we will decide. Otherwise, each Member may, after this Rules of Procedure, propose an extension of the agenda. Whether this will be accepted or not, this is what we are talking about - what will happen on the agenda, when will be on the agenda, under what conditions it must meet. That's all we're talking about here. And that someone is doing this without us arguing here, or you think it's right for some marriage to go on the agenda, I don't think so, and vice versa. In the end, it is up to those who have a higher voice. And we can think a hundred times that there should be another law on the agenda today, but because it requires the institution in which we are also requesting the preparation of meetings for decision, then this threat with the Constitutional Court is over. For this right to suggest that you have the opportunity to discuss the agenda is not taken away from you. However, to make a choice theoretically and practically, we should have every month on the previous reference and then on the reference all the points that are inserted if they meet all the conditions. Is it realistic that two hundred and so many things will come to the July session? It's not real. Since life is so necessary to make some priorities, some selections, it is also necessary to do so. Mr Peterle, you must have been in the English Parliament, and you know that there is rarely any law from the opposition, if at all, one of one party in the entire mandate. It's up to you, but it's up to you if it's up to you. With this rule of procedure, it is far from what Parliament has, say, with the longest tradition for its fundamental regulation, how laws are passed, etc. We have been trying to follow that on the one hand we have the ability to work effectively and, of course, to carry out urgent matters for the country, that, according to the opinion - including governments, not just Members, because we have applicants qualified as we do now: government, Members, the Council of State, voters, etc. Of course, because this is the case, we wanted to avoid, however, the situation where there was no sense of thought and it was possible for each parliamentary group at one session - see and you will find out what it was like to do now and how something else could be done in fourteen days; for example, eight groups, eight laws, plus, of course, some of the European cases we have now, plus some decisions of the Constitutional Court, plus some urgent things that need to be done for the functioning of the country, and you will find that if only together you count that this is a very large matter. But if we add to that what's coming, because it comes on the nose, then someone has to prepare these things to decide on this prey. As also, Mr Cukjati, you have given the powers, you have given them: for example, to the Committee on Foreign Policy by voting here in favour of the composition, you have given this Committee the authority to make up delegations, you have given some other powers, etc. You gave them because it's the only way to organize a job. If you think that every time for Mr Jelinčič every week the National Assembly will decide when he will go on a mission somewhere, then we will deal mainly with such things. This is not the primary work of the National Assembly, but it is the working bodies and in one part here a college which is again only proportionally composed and in no way different.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Pucko also has a replica, and then Mr Anderlic's implementation was made in the order of the replicas: first Dr. Bajuk, then Mr Jelinčič and Mr Tsukjat. Mr. Pucko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I object to the distinguished colleague of Tsukati, in that part that I feel completely rejected, that the Member of the Group, which, in the previous term of three and a half years, has challenged the independence of the Member under Article 82, speaks precisely about this. By the way, your powers, as far as I know, won't even have to be given, because your leader will take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I ask that you truly, Mr Pucko, if you allow me to complete the reminder, which concerns Mr Puck's Member of Parliament as well. I really ask that we avoid personal disqualifications of individuals and their relations in this National Assembly, because they are not subject to the 25th Article and the amendment to this Article and also follow in replicas the responses to the implementation of individual colleagues. Dr. Bayuk has the word. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Replica is a colleague of Anderlich's. You asked us a question, and I think it's a legitimate question why we're even afraid of it, because it's just about organising work, that some colleges are going to propose and we're going to have a choice here. If we actually have a choice, if that's true, then it's logical, which is what you said we're actually deciding here. However, it is not the way in which the current Article 25 proposal is written, that the college should decide on it. If the word "decided" is deleted, then we can start a debate on what's in these nine indents. In fact, what is in these nine indents, Sir, is little more than an organisation of work. In all your presentations, I have not heard a single argument as to why the College would actually limit the duration of the debate. Yeah, what are we afraid of? Our political space is already so sad because of the media mind; are we going to do it here? I'm asking you to reconsider that. I understand that you want to come and reorganize our work, but in this way, as proposed here, it is totally unacceptable! Restricting the duration of the debates at the President's College, this is not an organisation of work, this is contrary to the minimum principle of democracy. How much more does Slovenia need to hear the other side of the bell, because that is the essence of Parliament in order to actually have a debate! On 15 October, we were elected, not only a large coalition, but also the opposition was elected and has the right and the duty to advertise and to express its opinion clearly and loudly in this area. We can't accept this restriction. If it is adopted today, we will go to the Constitutional Court and we will fight for it because it is totally against the fundamental principles of democracy. If you want to organize the work, I accept it, and as a newly elected Member, I will listen nicely and try to get some normal judgment on all of this. Not everything that's been going on is good and good. I understand we're trying to change things around here and put them on better feet. But in the way you did this work in Article 25, it is really unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Anderlič said that someone must prepare work for work in the college and for work in the National Assembly. I would say that the preparations for work in the National Assembly, if laws prepared by the government were to be obtained in the National Assembly, would not be a particular problem. The problem is revealed when laws are drawn up unprofessionally, poorly, ignorantly, incompletely, or I do not know what else to say, but certainly not well and properly. I mentioned before what number of amendments usually comes to, government amendments, government law. So in the end, we get one whole other thing, just like we did at the beginning. If this were settled, there would be no such problems and then the regulation of work and the preparation of work would take much less to the college. We do not need such restrictions to prevent members of the opposition from actually pointing to any irregularities. Mr Anderlič also made many calls to the College and reminded the chairman or president of the National Assembly of the non-professional preparation of the work. But if the president of the National Assembly were to take his job as easily without fear of government as necessary, he would simply send a lot of law back to the government. I'd say, "Dear gentlemen, make the law, don't send me some draft documents, some sketches, some prepared, I don't know what things have no tail, no head." This is the task of the President of the National Assembly. If the President of the National Assembly were first of all the President of the National Assembly, but not a member of the ruling coalition, he would have done so and then the matter would have turned significantly differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. There's also a replica of Mr. Cuckoo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u106	I wanted to replicate Mr. Anderlich. I must say that for some of the speech restrictions I would certainly be in favour and will support them. Let's say a replica of the replica to the replica. Then, after ten minutes, the individual Member should report to an individual article - and I am not thrilled to do so. But I must say, Mr Anderlič, because you have just voted the most towards this article; however, I find it foreign to your thought that it would not be a decision on the national assembly, but on the working bodies, on the colleges and so forth. I think that working bodies and colleges are meant to find the solution, the solution that will not encourage the complications here, and the thing will come out as we all want it to, quickly and effectively. And if the college worked like that, it's probably possible that it would work that way, then our work would run faster. I still believe that the task of working bodies is such that they actually prepare the material, and some of the working bodies do it very successfully, and then this is where the whole thing goes fast. However, decision-making, I believe that important things - and this is important - must remain in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. He would also like to replicate Mr Anderlič and then two more debates, Mr Rupar and Mr Brenčič, in turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u108	I haven't lost hope yet, but this is the last time I've heard from this article. However, the hope remains that there will be mutual listening and understanding of what is really going to be done with this article. No segment shall be able to interpret this Article in such a way as to limit the debate to the exclusion of Members from the decision-making process. That's not true! The agenda shall be adopted by the State Assembly at the end and shall be adopted by the State Assembly. However, to make a proposal to prepare a meeting and so forth, someone must do so. What's bad is that you don't read these articles, except for Mr Sok, who's 61st, 119th, and some other articles that regulate things, take as a whole and try to find out what a college thing is, what a chorus thing is, what a working body thing is, and so on. It is undeniable that in Slovenia we have an incomparable, excessive legislative process. It is also incomparable that key things are dealt with in the plenary; that debates, as in all serious parliaments, are carried out in the working bodies. It is not true that limited debates are just like that. In the second reading, when it comes to amendments, when it comes to concrete solutions, corrections to certain solutions in the law, amendments are amendments and amendments to the debate, unlimited, and so on. That the ratio of volume between quantity and time must be established is, after all, proof of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. We're going too far towards the end of the target time, from 52 points we've made a fifth. And how much will we do in this due time? We're not gonna do half of it. In order to be clear, transparent, in particular, so that we can plan work, when a matter will be put on the agenda, so that the voting arrangements can also be arranged, for example, on a given day, if, not at a certain time of the day, it is envisaged when a point will be voted on, so that, of course, the number of Members will also be determined or given an opportunity, which was ultimately in the current Rules of Procedure, Mr Tsukati and Mr Bajuk. In the present Rules of Procedure you have a provision which is not so consistent that the debate on an individual point can be limited to a certain period of time and, of course, it is redistributed between Members. It's not revolutionary news. However, it is all set up in a structure that allows, above all, transparency, better planning, organisation in a predictable way, all in order that Members and Members groups can and must say what they think and have time to do so. Within this legislative process, which is envisaged, the way it is supposed is not pure new, we have not invented it, believe me, but we have tried to analyze a number of other things. Not only did we, who finally put this into practice, but experts who have studied it for years and years, practically everyone who has been monitoring, studying, explaining it to students, and so on, has been involved for at least five years. It is based on 1998 prepared by these experts. And not just from law school, but others. They studied Slovenian practice and arrangements in other countries. There is nothing more than that, but only so much and with the mitigations that would be the most appropriate for this period of democracy, as old as it is in this Slovenia. That's all this is about. I won't talk about this article anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Anderlich wishes to be replicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just a short replica. Mr Anderlič said that it is already possible in the existing rules of procedure of the National Assembly to limit the duration of the individual debate. It is true, but it is possible, and now, in my opinion, in the new rules of procedure, this is to be introduced as a rule. And here's the essential difference. If something is possible to apply this matter exceptionally, then that is quite enough. In my view, we do not have to go to the absolute extreme. That's why I'm against writing it down, like it's always done. For there will be abuses, and these abuses are in fact prepared, and this is what some in the ruling coalition want to do - to allow, who can and who can't, and what can and can't say.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have two more debaters, and I hope that in the morning part at least the debates on the amendments can be concluded by Article 25. Mr Rupar has the floor first and then Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps my performance will be a summary of the morning's work, but let me take a walk from the indent to the indent, especially in the parts that I personally find most controversial. First of all, I would like to refer to the duration of the meeting of the National Assembly and to the time when the individual agenda items are dealt with. This part of the fourth indent makes no sense to me, because you are a college that will decide this must not allow the idea that it is omnipotent and that it is omniscient. I highly doubt that the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups will be so smart that they will be able to determine when the points will end. However, it will be possible for the majority in this college to determine that the agenda item and the debate and the replicas will last 40 minutes, for example, and then the point will not be closed at that time. What we're going to do with this point later or whether we're going to break it or whatever, of course, is a secret, and it's not a member -- once again, I stress -- who could have foreseen this. That's why I don't think this part makes any sense. The second part of this indent, which speaks of the duration of the debate of the Member and other participants in the meeting or the parliamentary group, to me - once again - seems to be contrary to every moral, every logic, every dictatorship of democracy. On the contrary, even representatives of the parliamentary groups will not be able to express the opinion of the entire parliamentary group of any party, regardless of the number of Members, but the dictatorship and some attempt to bind languages to all those who would like to speak in any way on behalf of the parliamentary group, i.e. the masses of elected people - also four is a crowd - I feel extremely "unfair" and in the face of democracy. Limitation of the debate of the Member. It's possible you're even going to vote. What does that mean? This means that you will limit the debate to one minute on the important laws that you will see to it that there can be a lot of debate, a lot of conflicting opinions, so that you will give an unlimited debate on the ratification of the agreement between Slovenia and Uzbekistan, for example, for transport. This is going to happen and it's extreme, I think -- you're laughing at yourself, you're laughing at yourself. I continue with the following, I think, a very important indent, of the number of jobs in the working bodies belonging to each group, as well as of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents in these working bodies. The current system, which we have since independence, says that the number of seats in these groups, as well as in delegations - let me just sum up the next indent - the number of Members appointed by the College, i.e. immediately after the elections, and the percentage, i.e. the proportional percentage of the percentage received by the party in the elections, i.e. the number of Members in the working body. Now it will be possible for two parties, two parties, to put together immediately and vote under this Rules of Procedure in such a way that the possible opposition, which, for example, will not yet be known, already has no representative in the working bodies, not one President, but that it is possible to occupy, say, the envisaged or projected opposition of any place in the international institutions. What does that mean? This means that any foreign partner will be informed of the events unilaterally, only very positive; he will be given the opinion that the matter is fully cleared, that everything is fine, but he will not be able to listen to a single voice of the opposition. But now, in this case, where I speak generally, I'm not putting myself in the opposition, but, say, in a position. I'd be very ashamed to walk the world only with my brother and tell him how nice things are at home, and we'd have a broken house. I continue with the last indent, which also seems very controversial to me - that is, that the College decides on the time limit within which the Council of State must give an opinion on matters, extraordinary meetings and so on. The Council of State is an organ, a special body or other body in that country, such as the National Assembly. And we're restricting it with this indent, so we're restricting his work. Just as we restrict the work of Members, so now we are even restricting the work of an institution called the Council of State. This is unacceptable to them or tell them that we no longer need it. Personally, I think the state's world is just because it is. But tell me directly that this country doesn't need it, that their decisions are a complete waste of time and money, because then we have 46 votes, one way or another, and we don't need them. But not in this way restricting them to realize for themselves that we do not really need them, that they are useless, and that their proposals for the abolition of the State Council in this way will automatically shift to their shoulders. This Article and this institution, the new college institution, will, if adopted in this form, be likely to constitute the organisation of work only in terms of quantity. So, according to the current lane of laws, let's say it's as stupid as the law on fertilizing single women, so it's going to go on the current lane, there's not going to be a voice, time is limited, and you can produce or produce exactly what you're going to think of on the agenda. Our desire for opposition is now to move on to quality. So it's less of a law, but it's quality. However, they can only be of quality when you hear completely different opinions about any article or marriage than you imagined them to be, let it be now any majority. So, once again, against this article, because we want to have quality laws, not as my colleague Jelinčič said, we will complement the laws that you will correct from month to month when we have countless and countless amendments, and at the end of the day, you will either re-adopt or re-adopt a scribble that will not be useful in practice. The system, which is proposed for each president of the parliamentary group to have as many votes as Members, already in this composition means that the two parties are fully sufficient to accept everything that is going on in this national assembly - these are liberal democracies with 34 votes and a combined list of 11 votes. We get 45, and if anyone else suggests from these two parties with their party pendants or anything, I'll say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u113	Mr. Rupar, I ask you politely, repeat yourself, you are saying the same thing three times today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u114	It's okay, ma'am, it's my right.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u115	And please keep an eye on the terms you're using. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u116	Ma'am, this is my right. We say it more often, it sounds better. Yes, for example, a representative of the party's parliamentary group, which you have used to form a coalition, does not attend a college meeting, but you have quite enough to decide everything. Personally, I call once again on all those who have any sense and responsibility towards the voters who have entrusted us to democracy and also to the praises you have given to all foreign delegations during this period, once again, to oppose such a dictatorial way of adopting such articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič took the floor. You want to go to the afternoon work? Good. Thank you so much for your cooperation. We'll resume at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that they further apologized for the continuation of the 7th session, on 27.6.2001: Maria Possonec, Bogdan Barovic for the afternoon part of the session, Sašo Pece for the afternoon part of the session, Alojz Peterle for the afternoon part of the session, also Dr. Andrej Bajuk and Bogomir Vnučec. Since we will be able to determine the presence, I respectfully ask you for some attention to press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. There are 47 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. In this morning's work, we held a debate on the four amendments to Article 25 and on Article 25 as a whole. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. As I see the content of Article 25, I can mainly see that they are somehow at the crossroads of argument, of decision-making power and of decision-making. In any event, the power of decision-making is the one to be present in this Chamber, depending on the strength of the individual parliamentary group or perhaps the persuasiveness of the speaker, who will draw behind him the decision that says that power is such. I think it's wrong to transfer this decision-making power to college. In particular, as regards the issue of organisational matters, the College should be dominated primarily by arguments rather than by the power of arguments, especially in numerical terms. This way, I think it would be better if we also leave in advance the President of the National Assembly the possibility, by means of proposals, to establish some reputations and thus the reputations of Parliament outside. I fear that when all this decision is transferred to college, it will become the president of the National Assembly, and no matter what parliamentary party it comes from, everything will be too much of a figure, if I simplify it. In any case, it is preferable for me, regardless of the arguments put forward by the 25th Article, that the college remains as a consultative body, and that the President of the National Assembly retains the autonomy they have everywhere in the European Parliaments. That's why I won't support Article 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the basis of Article 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Slovenian National Party Member Group shall require 40 minutes for consultation in the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure allow the Group of Members to consult before the decision is taken, we interrupt the meeting for 40 minutes. We continue our work at 3:20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u123	Dear Members and honourable Members, we continue to meet. The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group requested a recess to consult before deciding on the amendments to Article 25 and Article 25. Does the representative of the parliamentary group wish to clarify the position? [[He does.]] Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members and distinguished fellow Members! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have once again examined the content of Article 25 of the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure and all nine indents setting out the rights and tasks to be decided by the College of the National Assembly after a new decision has been taken and thus exceeded its consultative role. The starting point of the study and comparison with the current rules of procedure was also our wish to have an objective view of rationalising the work of the National Assembly in order to be more effective. Despite all of this, despite the examination and comparison of the provisions of the old, current Rules of Procedure, we have assessed that the content of Article 25 - that certain elements of this Article go beyond the basic democratic principles and rights and duties of each Member. As a result of such an assessment, we decided in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that we would not support Article 25 of the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Sok called first. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u126	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I understand the efforts of the applicants, but I must say that, as a member of the opposition party, with such a solution, as set out in Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot agree. Therefore, I would be willing to vote in favour of this article if the applicants were willing to listen to the debate from the opposition and to amend this article slightly. What bothers me is that the college decides. We have tabled an amendment to the first paragraph of this Article. Our vote on this will depend on whether or not the coalition will support these amendments. We do not agree with the broad powers of the College of the National Assembly, as it will certainly prejudge the purpose and status of this highest body, by what order, in order to determine the duration of the debate. I am convinced that this must remain in office and under the competence of the National Assembly, so I cannot agree with such an article as is stated here and cannot vote for such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next one will explain his voice, Mr Cukjat. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u128	Your Honor! I think that the current text is an expression of the fact that the proposaler has made little effort, however, to ensure a democratic attitude towards smaller parties as well. In particular, these parties have four members. I can't imagine that at this stage, in the decision-making phase of college, they would in some way be prevented in the debate and in the demonstration itself, from justifying their views. The main reason why I am against such a structured text is that it does not take public debate into account in important decision-making matters. If you feel that the creation of a working body is not an important issue, a matter worth discussing here and some other things, then I do not know what else is important in this national assembly. The fact that the college will only propose some things and coordinate itself is not enough for me because the article makes clear what and how the college will decide. On the other hand, I am surprised to see that we are abandoning the methodology of other institutions, that, in fact, colleges mean the President of the National Assembly and vice-presidents in essence, where there is essentially some agreement, some agreement, some agreement, and then this agreed proposal to the National Assembly. That is why I will vote against the article if the amendment under number one is not adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment under order number one, on sheet number four of our amendments. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has not been accepted. We are moving to the vote on the amendment, which is on the list you received on the bench. This is an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Amendment to Article 25. We're voting on him. You want to explain your voice? Here you go, Mr. Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you. Allow me to have the opportunity in some way to think differently from the other three Members of the Party of Young Slovenia, that one of the 34 members of the LDS has the possibility to think differently from the other 33. Therefore, do not generalise the opinion of the Head of the Group of Members with the opinion of all Members in the Group of Members. On behalf of democracy, I will support this amendment and appeal to all Members to support this amendment. If we don't know how to establish democracy in this house, then it's out on the streets of our cities and we won't be able to establish a village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 25, which is proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia. Let's vote! There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're going back to the amendment review. We will decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 70 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 to 18. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have a full vote on Article 25. Let's vote! There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the article has not been fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 27 and on the three amendments to this Article. The proposed amendment under 1 is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, under the 2 members of the New Slovenia Group and under the 3 members of the opposition groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. This Article defines the status of Secretary-General. Before I say anything, I would like to say that I'm not talking about names, that's the first thing I need to say, and it seems very important to me that no one connects to any name. In my opinion and, of course, in the opinion of the Group of Members, the status of secretary-general is such that it can be treated as a manager in a company. Or if we transfer this to an economic society, it's the head of an administrative society. Nowhere in the economy is the manager, the manager of the administration has a permanent mandate. It can be chosen as many times as new, it is no problem, but that either the statute or in this case in the Rules of Procedure or in any other legal act would define it as a permanent function, you will not find it anywhere. The fact is, the manager's setting up the owner. He can put it on multiple occasions, he can vote on it, whether the ownership structure changes or something. Even more, the manager has to be under some pressure to be able to replace him, to do well. In Slovenia we have only one area - in the judicial branch of power, permanent mandates. If you are monitoring the event, you know that signatures are being collected, I am not determining whether this is good or not, but signatures are being collected for the abolition of the permanent mandate. That is to say, we have it there legally and we are collecting signatures for abolition, but here, when we redefine a legal act, we would put this function on a new footing for a permanent term. I think that's unacceptable. However, it is particularly unacceptable to compare this with economic work. We can call this a business manager, this term is used in services that are comparable to this status. This is a matter of public service, and we find this unacceptable. If you ask anyone, whether at the Chamber of Commerce or at any other chamber, about any permanent term in such a function, you will be surprised to see what you are talking about. Once again, I'm not talking about any name. We do not mind if this mandate, which is defined at any time during each term of the State Assembly, is renewed, if it is unlimited, once and for all it can be repeated for the same name, that does not bother us at all. However, the function cannot be defined as a priority as a permanent mandate. That is why, of course, we are proposing such an amendment as we propose to redefine this function at the beginning of the term of office of the National Assembly after the elections. Of course, we expect others to think similarly, especially in view of the experience I have told them, from the judicial branch of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. It seems to us in itself that the mandate of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly is linked to the mandate of Members, as it is virtually impossible to imagine that this function could be performed by someone who does not have majority support in the National Assembly or who has not been appointed to this post by a team elected in the parliamentary elections. This concept is advocated throughout the entire Rules of Procedure, and it seems to us in our own right, as my speaker said, is not an important name, but an important function. This function must, however, be linked to the mandate of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We will support this amendment of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, because we are confident, just as colleagues who have already said that the matter cannot be concrete and that certain positions cannot be allocated for life. We already have life-long positions assigned to Slovenian judges, and we see what happens to this. If we look at the last report of the independent German commission, we see that it is a total mess in the Slovenian judiciary. Abuses are taking place, everything is happening, and we want to reintroduce practice, as it were, into the country and into Parliament. I think that it is perfectly logical for each period of operation of the National Assembly that this period is also linked to the operation of the General Man of the National Assembly. I don't think we should just allow ourselves this bureaucratic growth; sometimes it would be the colleagues who were once in the Communist Party - I wasn't there myself, but I read a lot - they would say bureaucratic ethics. And that is exactly what is happening with us and with the flag carried by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm on my own against it. Here it is even more evident that the leading party of the Slovenian political space wants to take over all of Slovenia's political and other lives, and eventually to remove its coalition partners when they no longer need them. Once again, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u138	Your Honor! I think it would be very unfair for this state council to choose a man, a secretary for another, the next national assembly. That would be inappropriate. I think every national council has the right to choose its secretary-general. Let us be so honest that we do not make a violent fate for other people who will come after us. However, I would suggest that respected colleagues from a large party reconsider these amendments. If this amendment is not adopted, we will again be a little short against the article as a whole. This will make the text strange, create a kind of hole in the text, and the whole project to rationalise and create a solid rules of procedure will fall into the water. Here I would expect a little more maturity from you, and in the case of Article 27, you would also support our amendment and, in fact, save the whole article. How you do it, we'll see in a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. I have a different thinking from the predecessors. In fact, I do not think the basic interpretation of Article 27 is good. In particular, this is not good because in some way it introduces a so-called permanent mandate for the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. The mandate should probably be clearly defined here for its four-year term. It is probably not good, however, that in some ways the National Assembly binds the Secretary-General's role to a limited period of time of the National Assembly. In this way we could probably achieve a higher level and a higher professionalisation of work. Otherwise, I fear that the function of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly will also be subject to a day-to-day policy which has a dominant majority in this national assembly. Therefore, I think it would be most reasonable that the article until the third reading is open and that careful consideration should be given to what the final dictatorship would be. I am opposed to introducing mechanisms for a permanent mandate for this function. However, I do not think it is good that this function is bound as a mandate for the term of office of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment under order number one, with a note: if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number two is irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 34. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We're moving on to an amendment under order number two. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 17 votes to 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 3. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 10. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes to 14. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 29 and on the three amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the New Slovenia Group, under 2 by the Socialist Slovenia Group and under 3 by the European Group of Positions. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. With our amendment, we propose that the first paragraph of this article, which states that the legal service must give its opinion on the compatibility of the draft laws, other acts and amendments with the Constitution and the legal system by the beginning of the examination in the home labour body, propose that instead of "before the beginning of the treatment", we should introduce the dictatorship of our amendment, "at the latest 24 hours before the beginning". We propose this because we often get the opinion of the secretariat just before deciding at working-body meetings or at parliamentary meetings here in Parliament. Many times these opinions are very decisive or decisive for our decision. From this point of view, it seems appropriate for us to write down in the Rules of Procedure that this opinion should be made available to Members 24 hours before the beginning in order for Members to have the opportunity to examine it as such. In the second paragraph, we propose that the text should be called 'Collegiate on a proposal from the President of the National Assembly', which is why we have rejected this article and it would be appropriate to summarize here this solution for Parliament to elect the Head of the Legislative Service, that is to say, as it is in the present business order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please. You're giving up. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u144	Unfortunately, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group cannot be supported because it also contains the second paragraph. If we only talked about paragraph one, then we'd back it up. Nowhere, indeed, in any of the rules of procedure that we have considered, are the services of the National Assembly regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or Parliament, but are regulated by the Act on the Systematisation of Services and are also named after the procedure. The secretary of the legislative secretariat is a typical professional and not political function. This should remain in the sphere of systemization and regulation, not that we decide here. Since this amendment of yours contains both, we cannot support this amendment, or we could support it for 24 hours. But since it's connected, we can't do that. We are also proposing a joint amendment, and we believe that when we open this article - I assume that at least this amendment will receive a majority - this could also mean a debate at the next stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek first!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much. It seems to me that in this article's proposal, the Head of the Legislative Service is appointed by a college, illogical, and that you insist on doing so even now that the College Article has fallen. You show arrogance, which is known here in this House and you tell your muscles, but you have to face the situation that it is not appropriate, that what has been rejected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in this National Assembly in this way, and here the observations from this, if you do, we will not respect the left, not the right, nothing, we will do our will. I fear that this is not good for this national assembly and for the state of democracy in Slovenia. That is why I think, I agree that this is a professional function, but not to take the credibility of Members, so that they can also make the right decision on professional matters. We know parliamentary lawyers and other lawyers in this regard, and I think that Members, whatever they will, will be able to weigh among the professional references of these lawyers who will run for this function. Taking this opportunity for Members also seems very wrong to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok and then Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Given that we're in a quick process, I am withdrawing this second paragraph in the first amendment. So what Mr Anderlich said would be supported by our amendment if it were not for this second paragraph. If we withdraw this, then the second amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party remains the one we will then vote on. If our amendment is adopted, then the second amendment will no longer be irrelevant because this second paragraph is withdrawing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u150	Mr Jerovšek, because you can always act out of a negative approach, if there is arrogance and so on. But believe me, the third treatment is now, as is the new procedure for dealing with acts such as the Rules of Procedure or the law and so forth, designed to ensure that those nonconsistencies caused in the second reading are regulated by poor solutions or by adopted amendments or by any means in the third reading. I certainly did not talk about bringing back the same dictatorship as it has now been deleted by the non-acceptance of Rule 25 of the Rules of Procedure, but we will certainly have to look at the structure and arrange it by "drinking water". However, I am convinced that it is in the interest of your party currently in opposition, as of course, of all others, including us, that the National Assembly will be given rules of procedure, which will be of quality, which will allow for normal work. And that's all this is about. Now, whether you call it arrogance or not - if you are so capable that you can now not know exactly how many articles there are, but let's say there are 290 - that by not accepting one article you can figure out where to change and react in this debate and even consistently do it, then you're a genius! You're on the border, but you're not exactly there. Really, it's been like this since I've known you, and I've been getting to know you more and more. But that's not how we're going to get far. We will not go far if you are going to see any unconsistency in every matter, because we thought we were creating it with the whole structure, and Mr Petan has been on the business committee all along and he's been monitoring it, and now we think that in the third reading we can do something else, one way or another, especially acceptable for the two-thirds majority or for the majority. But I accept what I said before, and we will support that first amendment of New Slovenia from this point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič also took part in the debate. Would you like to replicate, Mr Jerovšek, Mr. Anderlich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I don't know, I think Mr. Anderlich is definitely closer to a genius than I am to myself, because I have such a modest view of myself. He knows in so many areas that I think he's really close. But it doesn't matter. I agree with his last work that we are all interested in the rules of procedure which will allow for a normal way of working. However, precisely because of this, Mr Anderlič, as the leader of the Group of Members, I think it would be logical that after the 25th article that he introduced, as I have qualified myself, the dictatorship of the College, which has dragged itself across the entire Rules of Procedure, in order for you to say now, we need to take some time to think about proposing the suspension of this debate and, somehow, to harmonise what is possible at this point. The fact is that Article 25 is no longer in such a dictatorship, this article will not be able to be the same under Article 25, and I know that you will glue it somewhere else, so that you can glue it and do your will. However, I suggest you consider at this point, to see that you can settle further at this point and that we actually go to one of the rules of procedure that "will drink water" as you say, which will enable serious work, shorten procedures - that is what we are for. However, when we are faced with the fact that you want to do so in every way and that we hear from the last bench because this article will come back in the third reading of the law or rules of procedure, then of course do not condemn us to be negative. We are forced to defend that crumb of democracy that remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. You want to replicate Mr. Jerovska? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u154	Look, the rules of procedure really make this impossible for us, as you explain, Mr Jerovšek. To put an end to everything that is incompatible with this article, we change everything and let us make decisions. Then we will accept an amendment, say, Article 141, and we will find that this is not in accordance with Article 25. And we're gonna break up again and we're gonna go back out there and discuss everything. It's not working! It is precisely because of this that the procedure is multifaceted; so that what was done in the second reading, as it was done, can still be arranged consistently and so on in the third reading. You know that, Mr Jerovšek! As far as the other stuff is concerned. In the case of countless laws, we could find out how the legislative process is proceeding and how things are regulated. There have been some laws recently in the procedure where you supported other solutions, but we are likely to discuss this in the assembly. I firmly believe that, in the way you now represent it, nowhere and never will the National Assembly work effectively. That would be a whole new method that you are now introducing. Not according to the old rules, not the new ones, but I don't know if they have it anywhere. I don't know if she's been tested at a stage where an amendment was rejected or even accepted as here, the article has fallen and then everything needs to be changed. No, in the next phase, the next reading should establish this consistency. I've seen a lot of differences, at least I can't imagine right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. He wanted to discuss Mr. Victory Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Anderlič has now explained, in fact, what the Liberal Democracy intends to do, and we know that, in fact, everyone who has been in Parliament for some time, as well as those who are new. In the third reading, they will re- table the same or will table an amendment that will bring in Article 25. However, the fact is that the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, in fact with these two and some other amendments, are trying to reconcile everything together with what has emerged in Article 25, which speaks in the ninth indent that the College is also deciding on other matters for which this Rules of Procedure so provide. In fact, it is a normal procedure that the Liberal Democracy wants to carry out and which, as the last vote shows, will also be removed, because I think we should basically take this rule a little more seriously, and I think that the opposition should act a little more seriously together against this article, both the current opposition and tomorrow's opposition, who is not yet aware that it will be in the opposition tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any further, we are going to decide first on the amendment under order number 1 which the proposer has amended, so that we will not also decide on the text that changes the second paragraph and is located as the second paragraph of the amendment under order number 1. We're voting! 61 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 37. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment under 2 has not been accepted. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you. Therefore, for the third amendment, which states that the second sentence is deleted in the second paragraph, this means that the function of the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, appointed by the College and so on, is not linked to the term of office. That's what you're saying. That's what you're deleting. That's what she says she's gonna be tied up for. I mean, I could indirectly understand that, regardless of how the other articles eventually define this function. I didn't intend to make any calls to the amendments of the other applicants. However, since this is directly related to what I have been talking about before, with regard to the role of Secretary-General, this seems illogical to me. The function of the Secretary-General as the manager will be permanent, the function of one of the most professional services here in our National Assembly, and the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service will be deleted here in order not to be bound by a mandate. That's what they say it will be. It's kind of not working out. After all, if you want, I can support this amendment of yours. But I don't think it's acceptable on the professional side, but at the very least I think it's acceptable in terms of the hierarchy of the services of the National Assembly and the political to the professional. I don't even get along here if I compare it to another function. It's just that I stopped by because I just can't understand it. If you have supported or if you have opposed the previous dictatorship that we have proposed regarding the Secretary-General, then somehow I would have understood you here to go the other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We are in a phase where we can explain our vote to the third amendment. Voice explanation, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u160	I will support this amendment because I understand this article so that when the secretary of the secretariat comes to work for the first time, someone accepts it and calls it. Otherwise, he is a member of the National Assembly and has a sort of working relationship with the National Assembly. Since there is still something left that I have initially said that we could not make the Rules of Procedure completely comparable to other Rules of Procedure, which really has nothing to do with the staff of the National Assembly, but this is regulated by the Act of Systematisation, which I spoke of earlier, it remains somewhere in between. It is thought that at that time - it may be in the middle of a mandate, it may be the beginning of a mandate, I may not know what - when you leave the secretariat, when it is called when a new job is hired, it is called this way, otherwise it is an employee and falls under the law as it falls, of course with data on systemisation, tasks and I do not know what else is there. That's what it means. That is why I will support this amendment so that it will be clearly seen what we thought by this, that it is therefore a permanent mandate and a method of first employment in the National Assembly, if I say so. However, I believe that in the third reading we can also simplify or do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number three. We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 44 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been adopted under three. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 11. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the four amendments to this Article. The amendment under order number 1 is proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group, the amendments under 2 and 3 by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the amendment's proposer under number 4 are three parliamentary groups of positions. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. I believe that Mr Jelinčič explained the essence of all these amendments and the amendments of the Social Democratic Party in the previous debate. So with the fall of Article 25 - otherwise we could have heard that he would return to third reading, but given that 26 members, Members and Members voted against us and that there was something missing from the opposition today, I don't know if you can bring him back in such an easy way, unless those who voted against it change their minds for some reason. So this first amendment follows that the College has lost its function and that the function that you have foreseen for the College must be assumed in accordance with these solutions, which are then further mandated by the amendments, by the National Assembly. It would therefore make sense for us to now support the amendments that we are proposing and thus actually create some consistency in this Rules of Procedure. If you don't want to do this, you won't support it; what's going to happen in the end, we can imagine - just some confusing business thing that I don't think will have a tail or a head. We also support the two amendments of the Social Democratic Party, which makes sense to us that if the president of the working body is of the kind of representatives of the sent groups, then the Vice-President of the working body is, as a rule, we are aware that this number will be somehow determined by the number of seats sent - from the types of opposition groups sent and vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you. So, I'm just going to talk about the second amendment, that's our amendment. In part, Mr Sok has already explained, I would only say that we have had this practice to some extent in the National Assembly. At least we tried to enforce it where it was possible. And I think it's a better alignment with practice and, I would say, the good will of the majority in this House if it supports such an amendment. It seems to us, I don't know, a display of good faith and good taste. We've been doing this before. We've been trying to adjust. However, we are aware that this is strictly impossible to do, so we have written as we have actually written the exact dictatorship of this. So we do not insist, but, of course, it is right if this is possible to do so, but that practice is passed into legislation. That's it. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič and then Mr Potrč also applied for the debate, in order of order.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will also talk about the second amendment, this is the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, which speaks of the fact that, in so far as the president of the working body is of the kind of representative position, he must be the Vice-President of the opposition. I think that makes sense and logical, because this preserves Parliament's democracy. Parliament's democracy has already been distorted and the coalition intends to turn it to the point where the opposition will no longer have any function or power. What can we think if this amendment is not adopted? In accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, there will be immediately complete changes in positions in all working bodies. As soon as, probably a month after the Rules of Procedure have been adopted, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine that we will all be flying together from the Presidential and Vice-Presidential cities, and these Presidential and Vice-Presidential posts will be distributed by the gentlemen of the coalition, by a narrow coalition, or by another word, mainly from the Liberal Democracy, because gentlemen of the current coalition partners, if you think there will be any bread left for you, you are mistaken because you will be soon where we are - in the opposition. Then your crying will be too much. And I once said that the Members are cattle. Now I'm going to explain why. It's the only kind of animal that goes to the slaughterhouse with a smile. And that's why I think the title is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u168	Well, if I turned first to a joke, then I would say that Mr Jelinčič gave such strong arguments that this amendment should be supported. But seriously, I'm gonna say the following. We in the parliamentary group and also with some of the signatories agreed to show support and support. And for the reasons that I said in the first place: don't break any concept. The practice has been so far, and there is no reason, and it has never been imagined that it would be any different. At the end of the day, it's more of a joke. However, I would be grateful if the representatives, colleagues and colleagues of the Social Democratic Party, in particular, would draw attention to the acceptance of this amendment by Mr Rupar, who, when discussing the 35th article, did not read, nor did Mr Jelinčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u170	As a proponent, I support this amendment under number 2, and I think that anything added to it is as something that would try to point to something other than content itself is irrelevant. I suggest we support him as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. In fact, I think that there is an amendment under number 1, which in some way takes away the competence of the College to appoint the working bodies of the National Assembly, even if we are thinking about the compatibility of this Rules of Procedure with Article 25. But there are probably even deeper reasons. In fact, we can recall that this National Assembly has already voted to set up, and this has also imposed Quiazu as a commission on disabled persons, as well as a commission for local self-government, and of course the procedure on this body of the working body is halting. I think that if we postpone this function and postpone it to college, the situation is likely to be much worse. The fact is that if I only touch on the question of the establishment of a disability commission, that the will of almost all members of the working body has been clearly expressed here on the working body, of course the working body has not come forward with this proposal. It'll be even worse if this authority is vested in a college. Of course, I would point out, however, that this working body should be established by our country by the time it enters the European Union. But nevertheless, I think it is extremely bad for this national assembly if in some way, if we Members give up these powers and, of course, just give this task to the members of the college. Therefore, I think the current provision is inappropriate and I will support the amendment under number one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It seems that this amendment under point two will be supported. But I think he's inconsistent in the sense that we have working bodies, where we usually have more than one vice-president. Should it be written, then, if the president of the working body is of the kind of representatives of the sent groups of positions, then at least one Vice-President of the working body is usually of a kind - are they all? And the one: instead of the opposite, it should probably be the opposite.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, I'm sorry. I didn't see who raised his hand first. [[...]] Mr. Petan, please! Then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Well, I also agree with this dictatorship. We can also take that as an editorial matter. However, if we support such a dictatorship, we can prepare in the third reading one that is acceptable to all and which is also linguistically and also otherwise more correct. In view of the fact that you generally agree with the content, I would ask you to support this and then in the third reading we will prepare a possible better dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u178	Mr Moge discussed it as if we were writing this Rules of Procedure to the current situation. We are writing the Rules of Procedure forward and therefore the working bodies will have to adapt to the Rules of Procedure. There is no reason for us to have more vice presidents in our working bodies. Personally, all I see is that there are more functions, that more functions can be divided by the coalition. So it will remain that each working body will have one president and one vice-president, but not that we have three vice-presidents in some. New Slovenia has no vice-president in any working body! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Moge. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u180	I'll be brief, but let's at least be consistent. Comrade Sok, it says here, and you didn't fix it, according to what you're talking about - the working body has a president, as a rule, one vice president. Then that "rightly" should be deleted here. If we are writing the Rules of Procedure, so amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which we accept and only correct one part, but not the other part, then this also points to consistency.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this article will also have to be scrutinized, because in style, if I look at the fourth amendment, I find it difficult to find the seventh paragraph, unless the title is like the seventh paragraph, as the first paragraph. However, if this is as the first paragraph, it will also have to be stylically corrected. The College shall establish working bodies and determine their tasks. Because otherwise we'll only be one working body, and no more, so strong corrections will be needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u184	The first amendment would be more of an issue than an opinion. That is, if the college appoints a working body, they are the working bodies of the college and not the national assembly. Isn't that right? And if we want them to be the working bodies of the National Assembly, they must be appointed by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment under order number one, we are referring to the amendment to article 35 on number six of the amendments. On the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. There were 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 35 as a whole. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 40 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment to the amendment of the parliamentary group of the national communities, the proposer of which is the three parliamentary groups, and under number 2, the amendment of which is the proposed amendment to the group of the Italian and Hungarian national communities; the parent working body of the amendment supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number two. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. There were 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. There were 53 votes against three. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 41 and the amendment to this article, whose proponents are three parliamentary groups of positions; the parent working body of the amendment supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 42 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Joseph Jerovska. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much. This amendment has been signed by all members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission. This is why you should take it as an amendment to the Intelligence and Security Committee. I must warn the National Assembly that this is an extremely important topic in our view. We are confident that the National Assembly will understand this importance. In fact, the proposed Article 42 states that the Commission for the Control of the Work of Security and Intelligence Services merely supervises the legitimate work of the intelligence and security services. This is the task of the government and many other institutions. Monitoring of security-intelligence activities is more important. And it may also be fatal to lack of control. We know that security and intelligence services or individuals from security and intelligence services are constantly tempted to abuse the activities of these services. Sometimes, in history, there have been cases where abuse has become institutional from the country, but somehow it has been ordered. If the Commission is able to monitor the activities of security and intelligence services, only in this case can it operationally supervise security and intelligence services. The Commission, wherever it may be, is already handicapped in our work system because it has a substantial lack of professional support so that it can monitor the work of security and intelligence services in a fairly efficient manner. That's why he's actually going to be forever behind bars. However, if in my own document we take away the possibility that we might actually have this control, then we have struck down the goal of human rights and respect for human rights in this country. The public interest in this area is certainly as quickly as possible operational control of the functioning of the security intelligence services and public interest is laid down by Parliament and therefore should not happen so that Parliament can monitor only legality, that is to say whether these services have, for example, a certified contract from the court. Look, our commission just now came out of one of those controls. If the dictatorship proposed in this Rules of Procedure were to be followed, we would practically be able to have such control. And I assure you, this surveillance is not far enough. I am sure that in these years, ten years of democracy, he has never been abused either, but it is not possible for parliamentarians to abuse him because we are moving towards practice. So I ask you to be aware of the importance of this. I must also say that we have withdrawn from the amendments control over the financing of the use of these services, although this would in some ways be logical; it is said that these services have certain specific financial funds, funds, but we trust that the Court of Auditors can also do so and through the supervision of the budget of another institution. We therefore consider that, at no point, any indent of this amendment should be disputed for Members. But I wouldn't -- I don't know if I could -- warn you of one vocabulary, but a significant mistake. In both indents, the first and third indents listed: controls active security and intelligence, it must be properly'security and intelligence'. With this editorial correction of this amendment, I would ask that we accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič and then Mr Moge also took part in the debate. Mr. Jelinčich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would also appeal to the National Assembly to support this amendment to Article 42. In fact, the amendment is based on European standards that require stricter control of intelligence services. It was based on German legislation, which is actually the most advanced legislation in Europe in this area. The rest of the European Union also amend its legislation in this area in accordance with these intentions. That I may not be too long, I also appeal to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't take advantage of your patience either. I would ask you to accept this amendment because the current dictatorship for this committee requires the Commission only to monitor the legality of the work, while the amendment we have proposed is an amendment that says it controls the activities of security and intelligence services, the consistency of their activities with the interests and the policy. So this one's modern. The first and second indents of this Article are almost covered by the fact that the second indent is the first indent, is short. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fourth indent, namely "reporting to the National Assembly". We say "once a year." Because, it happens, respected colleagues and colleagues, that these jobs, at least so far, have not had effective control if things like - well, I will leave these jobs, because you know very well. In all these years, I have been here for the fourth term, that is to say, for more than 10 years, I have in fact reported furniture in this National Assembly, not once has this Commission of Intelligence and Security Services reported this to the National Assembly. I think it's appropriate that we make order in this area once. But if there is nothing for the report, then the report will come out that everything was fine and we will all be happy and happy. However, I am afraid that if you support this committee, the Commission will only come to certain conclusions that these services also work poorly. For the time being, they seem to be doing great, but it's probably not the practice. If you support the amendment, at least you will allow Members of Parliament, on your behalf, the National Assembly, this practice, which has been so far, to be interrupted somehow.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision-making decision on the amendment, which the drafter changed only in his work to indicate where "safety and intelligence" services are "safety and intelligence". We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 54 votes to 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 42 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 43 and the amendment to this Article, of which there are three groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide from the whole article. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 47 and the amendment to this article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Therefore, in interpreting certain articles in this Rules of Procedure, the applicants have repeatedly referred to the provisions of the European Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the European Union, but I personally do not believe that these countries, whose Rules of Procedure - those Parliaments whose Rules you have taken into account in this regard - have laid down such provisions as we have in this Article 47. What we have written down is that the Security Intelligence Commission and the Public Finance Supervisory Commission can only require written material on the basis of 1/3, of course, a matter of known developments here in Parliament when you did not want to agree that the opposition in these two working bodies would have a majority in these two commissions. Since we have been writing the Rules of Procedure for some time - I hope - that the current one, as you say, has been in use for 10 years, it would be logical or reasonable that, at the moment we are writing the new Rules of Procedure, we would only find that European solutions are different. That control must be left entirely to the opposition and that the opposition, which has a majority in these working bodies, can also, on the basis of a simple majority in these supervisory commissions, require the necessary materials for its work. Since this matter will not, of course, be accepted in this way, because you understand, those who are in a position of power, acting with the country differently than we in the opposition, we have proposed this amendment to this article. That is, if we are already talking about one third, that this would apply to all the working bodies and then all the working bodies of the national assembly would have the possibility that one third of the members of the working body may require the relevant documents necessary for their work. So I suggest you support this amendment. In the third paragraph of this Article, however, we propose that the word after the article be deleted because it appears directly to us as set out in this Article 47. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide the whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 11. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I assure you, the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 50 and the amendment to this Article, of which three groups are proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 59 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide the whole article. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. 54 votes to 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 52 and on the amendment to this Article, of which three groups are proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! I'm sorry. I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this amendment, in particular because it replaces the text "predicted agenda" with the text "terminary programme". I think it's a major change. This change, in particular, in my opinion, aims to have a significant impact in some way on the decisions of the president of the home working body, in order to reduce his competence and in this way the president of the home working body must submit to the demands of the majority in this Parliament. I don't think this amendment is really necessary. Nor has there been any basis for such a change in this mandate. We may have witnessed some such attempts in the previous term, but in fact, I think that the replacement of this text takes away some of the powers of the presidents of the labour force. I will therefore vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. So we decide on the amendment, Mr. Anderlich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u196	I guess it's about changing things. If we change the agenda of the national assembly with a future programme, it is logical that the work of the working bodies should be adjusted to the scheduled meetings of the national assembly in accordance with the timetable.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 52. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 43 votes against 11. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 7. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 57 and the amendment to this Article, of which three groups are proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 60 and the amendment to this Article, of which three groups are proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 6. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 60 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 66 and on the four amendments to this Article. The proposed amendment under one and two is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, the amendment under three is the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, with a note: if this amendment is adopted, the amendment is irrelevant under four. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia under four. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Therefore, the first amendment refers to the fact that proposals for individual matters to be withdrawn from the agenda or extended should be submitted to the President of the National Assembly no later than twelve o'clock. We have proposed that this should be deleted because the reasons for enlargement or withdrawal may also arise after twelve o'clock. This is our view, and that is why we have proposed this amendment. Of course we're asking for your support. More important to us is the second, where, in the fifth paragraph of this article, it is said: "The matters for which the mother's working body proposes to withdraw from the agenda and to be placed on the agenda of the next meeting shall be withdrawn from the agenda without discussion and vote. This does not apply to cases that have already been removed from the agenda." We also propose that it be written down, "and for matters where candidates are members of opposition parties." Rather, the opposition has a certain right, when it can propose a law and not just with a security guard to get rid of them, we put one extra guard in front of it. Given that this amendment has received support from the home labour body, I hope that we will also receive support from this session. Of course, I'm asking for your support as well as your fourth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 36. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We're moving on to, I'm sorry, we're deciding on an amendment under order number three. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment under 3 has been adopted, so the amendment under 4 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on 69. We still need to make a full decision on the Article. [[...]] We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 69 and on the two amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and under 2 by the Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Therefore, in the proposed text, it is a sentence that applications for debate should be submitted in writing to the President of the National Assembly prior to the start of the consideration of each item on the agenda. We propose the following amendment when the order of the notified debaters is exhausted, the chairman asks whether anyone else wants to debate and, of course, the debate is limited. By the way, why did we suggest that? This amendment also belongs to rationalisation and better work. On the contrary, if this proposed basic content is applicable, then we will all be able to ensure that we are able to discuss this before the debate begins or we have a debate, regardless of whether or not, that we will be able to discuss and that we will all submit the applications. However, it is not necessarily a desire to discuss, but we do have a protector so that we can get to the word. In case you accept this amendment, you'll sign up if you really think you're going to argue, but basically you'll always apply. That is why I do not think that this is our option, which we propose, - I would say - that there will be more debaters. I'm sure there'll be fewer! Of course, you think about it, if we're right, and that's how you decide. Our aim is also to make the matter more rational and to discuss only when we actually think, but not when we make sure that we get to the word. This is our primary purpose and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u202	As a proponent, I support this amendment under point 1, only it will probably be necessary to change that "na" because it is probably a typographical error. Of course, not to say that it is a fraud and conspiracy, because, of course, as far as security services are concerned, they are very careful, and they found that out here - friends have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u204	Mr. Anderlich, thank you for your warning. We saw it was a typos mistake. We don't know exactly. I can't tell if she came to the drafters or then when she was printing. It means "but not less than 5 minutes." After all, we can fix something else later. But the point is that within 5 minutes - say: not less than 5 minutes. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to decide on the amendment under order number 1. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. There were 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 70 and on the four amendments to this Article. Three are on the review and one is on the paper sheet, where the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia are collected. So I am putting four amendments to the debate. The amendment under 1 shall be proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group, under 2 of the three parliamentary groups with a footnote, if the amendment under number 2 is adopted, the amendment under number 3 is irrelevant. The proposed amendment under 3 is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, and the amendment to article 70 is on the special paper of which the Party of Young Slovenia is the proposer. The amendment of the Young Slovenia Party is identical in the text to the amendment, which is contained in the review under order number 1, so we will both vote together because it is the exact same content. I am putting these four amendments and the article to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Our Group proposes that instead of the second paragraph of Article 70, we write a simpler and more suitable solution for Parliament. We propose that the second paragraph should read: "The duration of the debates of Members and other participants of the meeting should not be limited to less than five minutes and the duration of the debate for the members of the groups should not be less than ten minutes." We oppose what we have heard many times today, and we have already said in article 25 that we are opposed to the fact that debates by Members are too limited. We are for some rational work, but as stated in this second paragraph by the proponents - if you look at the last sentence of the second paragraph, where they say, "debaters who have not reached the word in relation to these restrictions may submit written contributions to the debate which are attached to the magnetogram of the meeting". So, of course, such a solution does not make sense to us. Actually, that kind of thing seems kind of funny to us. Thus, those who are unable to speak on their proposals will be able to make some written contributions attached to the basic minutes. We simply do not know what the purpose of such work should be, because yet Parliament is the place where everyone must have and where everyone must be assured that they come to their word. There is also an excessive limitation in time - here is a solution that the parliamentary group can discuss for ten minutes, namely only a parliamentary group - if such a solution remains, then, let's say, I don't know, the LDS Group, which counts as the most Members in this Parliament, if everyone wanted to discuss, would have a few seconds at its disposal for this debate, not a minute, since ten minutes is foreseen for the entire parliamentary group. There is no way we can agree that this would limit the debate in Parliament. This will not lead to rationalisation, but, in our belief, to the violation of the Members' fundamental rights, that is to say on behalf of their constituents what you think about a particular matter and how you view a particular matter. We therefore propose that you support this amendment. It would also make sense to support this amendment, because we have not adopted articles 25 today and therefore the College of President has also lost its position in this sense to determine how long the debate on a law under consideration in the National Assembly will last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u208	Parliament is a place where ideas are confronted and mature. I don't think, like my colleague said, the pins in the magnetogram have any meaning. And to take away the word, when time has run out for the debaters, force is incorrect and strange for democracy. I think there's some way to stop debt. I do not think it would be bad to think about the limitations that one or more Members may speak in principle only once, in other words only in the form of replicas or the like. Not that I'm not supposed to talk. If you imagine that an individual MP or a group of MPs should submit an amendment, and then there is no word that even the amendment would be explained or that individuals would discuss it, those who have signed it, then I do not see how this would have worked out in public and how they would have explained such a thing to any of Slovenia's judicata. I certainly support the amendment proposed here by Nova Slovenije, in particular with regard to the deletion of the second sentence of paragraph 2. I think we have talked about this once before, and this is the other key issue in this Rules of Procedure, which is embarrassing to us if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I am also joining the speakers myself, particularly in the sense that I actually think that it would be necessary for us to consider all those who will decide on the amendments to Article 70 and also on the content that it is. I am of the opinion that the current 70th Article introduces the inequality of Members in this Parliament. Inequality will occur and this can happen today in one of the Members' groups, tomorrow in the second, tomorrow in the third. There have already been several points in this House or when the debate has been held, concerning the issue of more than one or other parliamentary group. That will be the case in the future. If not sooner, then the Members will face this issue. I think it is extremely unacceptable that it should be written that debaters who do not come into the time frame should submit a written contribution. I wonder what a replica of a written contribution will be that will be attached to the magnetogram. Will a written replica be enabled? In fact, I think that Parliament is the centre where different opinions need to be drawn up. I agree that there is a need to limit the time frame. Many times in the previous term, there have been many such cases that time has actually been misused in Parliament. We have also witnessed such events several times in the current term. But once again, it is necessary to consider how much that minimum framework would be for limiting the debate between Members and Members at each point. But not put them in a frame, a time frame and limit them. I argue that it may be against the argument that all advanced democracies or the English Parliament have such a time frame. Now is the real question for you: Is it absolutely necessary for our Parliament to always copy a solution in other countries when regulating the rules of procedure and way of discussion? I don't think so. At least not at this point, because we are in some way a young democracy, where different opinions and views on issues are crystallized. That is why I think it would actually make sense for us to decide today and to support either the New Slovenia Amendment or the Youth Party and to reconsider the time limit for each of the Members of the National Assembly until the third amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u212	I wouldn't have answered if I hadn't dropped in to be ashamed if I hadn't accepted your amendment. Suddenly, they always refer to European principles, to European criteria, and suddenly we say that we are such a young democracy that we cannot accept European criteria. In the German Parliament, every party as a party has at its disposal exactly the same percentage of time as the percentage of Members. When I asked the German liberals whether they were in a worse position than the Social Democrats or the Christian Democrats, they said no, we are in a worse position because we are forced to argue more precisely and precisely our ideas. But you have forgotten, fellow Members, that just when television was all shot directly, the Slovenian population was most disgusted by these long discussions, the sole purpose of which was to gain popularity, but the only effect was that the reputation of Parliament has fallen rapidly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Sok wishes to replicate Mr Evil's performance. Would you like to see, then, a replica of Mr. Jelinčič or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I do not know where Mr Badger is being informed that the Slovenian public has been disgusted by the debates of Members, but that the Slovenian public is not actually able to follow the debates from Parliament. I think we are one of the few countries where this is not possible, Mr Evil. I don't mean those interpretations. People like to watch them. I don't know why they'd go there. They are appalled at the fact that they cannot accompany the work of Parliament. And that they cannot monitor the work of Parliament, you are also deserving. See, the solution that would allow non-verbal Members to submit written contributions is certainly contrary to the public. I'm sure it's against the public. So we would add some written notes to the basic session's magnetogram. Don't you think it's actually going this way to falsify the record? There's something attached to the magnetogram that wasn't said publicly at the session itself. I can write it down next to that, and then the Slovenian Parliament, instead of the place where the public debate is being held, will become some kind of secret or something like that. A circle of correspondence is also the correct term. We don't find such a solution logical. 100% convinced that you have not copied it from any Parliamentary Rules of any Western European country. I'm sure of it. However, if you can show me this, one of the rules of procedure that governs this way is that I am prepared to vote in the final stage, and then to vote in favour. However, I think that in such a way that some of the minutes, if you hadn't come in line in the debate, would have added to the basic magnetogram that, of course, these are not the solutions that would be appropriate for the public to the work of a Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please. Then the replica is Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I would not say that they are happy and happy in the German Parliament because they have less time to discuss, because they are supposed to be smarter and more precise. That, to put it bluntly, is a foolish statement that is driven mainly by common sense. I also have a lot of contacts with German parliamentarians, and I have heard one such claim today for the first time. However, I can tell you that as early as last week, when I met with German parliamentarians in Paris, and also now, last time the German parliamentarians were in the Slovenian National Assembly, no one boasted and no one was eager to be brief and to limit the time of the debate. And even the Slovenian population was not appalled at the length of the debate. The Slovenian population has become appalled at a lot of others and is still appalled at a lot of others, but I am not in it for long or short, because some people can cheat in very short debates. However, I am certainly joining my previous debaters, who say it is foolish for written contributions to be attached to the meeting's magnetogram. A magnetogram, already the word magnetogram has its purpose. And if something's adapting to a magnetogram, it's definitely not a magnetogram, unless it's a tape recorder that's attached. This is said to be a meaningful debate to record and from this debate to make a magnetogram, but by no means to go here one "transmitter" and I do not know what to look for here to justify the inability and restriction of the opposition to the possibility of speech. The fact is that this raises another strange question: how long after the meeting should written materials be submitted - or perhaps before the meeting? And how would you adapt written materials to replicas, and where would these replicas fit in? And then who would answer the letters of the Members? Would the Minister or other Members respond to the next meeting with written contributions to the previous meeting or to the current meeting? I think it's total idiotism! What to suggest must be human, I think, already on the edge of science fiction or on the line, on that line that Mr Anderlich mentioned earlier, when someone is approaching a genius, but on that side.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All day long I have been trying not to come forward because I believe that the debate is all too long and the developments of today show that we still need to adopt a new rules of procedure. Replicating a fellow Member [[...]] [[It's a conversation in the joints.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u219	Mr Anderlich and Mr Jelinčič, I ask you politely to allow Mr Beumann, who has the floor to speak his mind to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you for this intervention. So, I am replicating Member Sok when he speaks of the fact that there is no public guarantee in case written contributions are added to the magnetogram. I guess we all know that today's practice is such that all the magnetograms are available on the Internet, and I don't see why they wouldn't be. As for the comments made by Comrade Jelinčič, if it is not about magnetograms, he can quietly record his speech and then make a magnetogram out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, would you like to make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u222	I would like, yes, to make a procedural suggestion that, the President, remind the fellow Member - he said I should not mention his name in vain - first of all, from the LDS, who said that he would "hand me" as well as Praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u223	There is no debate on a procedural proposal which was not the case. This was not a procedural proposal, so we continue the meeting because I do not intend to discuss it and there is no debate on it. Dear colleague, they were both truly acting in such a way that Mr Beumann, who had the right to speak, did not actually hear his thoughts because they were having their debate and was heard only with your ears, so that they could clear it up between themselves; however, colleagues did not interfere with the discussions. Mr Jerovšek also took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I myself would have responded to Mr Evil Man's claim that our television audience was disgusted by the debates in the National Assembly. I don't blame him very much because he was obviously disconnected from Slovenian reality for a few years and he is not familiar with the actual situation in Slovenia. However, in this case, I would ask him to set positive examples from countries where I think he could also see something positive in their parliamentaryism. I think he even represented the Kingdom of the Netherlands as part of the Benelux countries, and here we have heard several times from the members of our delegations who were in the Dutch Parliament, that there are weekly parliamentary questions. Just a year and a half ago, we had to be answered by the Prime Minister, at least three. I think it's in itself forever understood. Mr. Zląbet, you're actually misinformed that there's been any harassment. Some government media have been intimidated and manipulated by the thesis that Members of Parliament are only fighting and fighting. However, this is a thesis that is part of an extremely well-designed strategy and technology of governance, and it originates and has roots in the previous system. In fact, you've tried to keep people in line to see how they could agree once and how such a parliament, where there are no debates, is successful. But in this case, let's be honest, if there's no debate in Parliament, there's no dispute, there's a quiet deal, there's a cow deal under the table, and that's a cow deal at the expense of taxpayers. To this end, when you mentioned the German Parliament and the positive examples, I would quote once again the words of the President of the German Parliament at the ceremony speech, when he moved Parliament to Berlin, when he said that after the democratic Germany had returned to Germany after Hitler had returned to the German Parliament. He says that whoever says an argument doesn't belong in Parliament, it's just a glimmer of democracy. Mr Zląb and everyone else, we must once be aware that we also tell our viewers that these debates, debates, are sometimes absolutely necessary, that this is just the way to a good solution. Let's stop, even through the media, convincing people that there is something bad about this debate in Parliament. This 70th article, as set out here, is on the line trying to reincarnate this technology of governance, which is undemocratic, which comes from undemocratic times. I'm surprised you can support something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Sok also made contact with the replica for the execution of Mr Evil Man, and Mr Ptrč is still waiting for the debate. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I would like to answer Mr Beumann, who said that he has been listening to pointless debates here in Parliament all day. I'm sorry, you said you were listening all day and that there was a need to limit the debate. Okay, I'm sorry, but infertile. So, I'm going to say that it's just that I think that where two people think exactly the same thing, there's probably one too many, but if 90 thinks exactly the same, then there's 89 too many. As far as this is concerned. Those stupid things that were written here, we didn't invent them in the opposition, but you made them up. Now, while Dr. Gaber is showing me something here, some of the writings in the German Rules of Procedure, I don't know if they are in the context of what is proposed here. If I do not come in line in my debate, then let me write my debate in writing and attach it to the magnetogram. Yeah, it's a fake record. That's what I said before. Really, then, the question is, Whom should this serve? Who needs this paper that I'm going to write. With that, we can, if you'll excuse me, wipe something off. That seems illogical to me. That's the way, it says, past the public, they worked in the Middle Ages, in the Inquisition. Then the public was turned off and accepted and made records of their own. So if we are Parliament, then Members must be allowed to say so. But if they don't have a chance to say it publicly, then it's such a solution that they're going to write something, and it's pointless. This comes to me as well as I don't know. I read one book. In Russia, freedom of religion was stopped. People could've gone to church, only the Special Police Departments beat them up and intimidated them. Thus, they had the right, but of course they could not exercise these rights. I propose once again to support this amendment, and indeed this second paragraph, in such illogical form as it is written here, let us correct. And we'll all be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Programming time is a custom in all parliaments. But this is a very eloquent task, which we will not be able to do easily and even after such a discussion as I hear today, successfully through the night. However, if someone thinks it is wise to continue without a time-bound agenda to discuss individual laws, then the practice will be as it has been so far. As a rule, she wasn't a problem. But it's been a lot of times. And we've all figured it out together, a lot of times, please, let's stop arguing, let's stop replicating, let's give it a lot, because we don't hear anything new. But it took a while. And such cases were not so few. To make such cases more difficult, I also see an agreement or a decision to limit the time of the debate. In doing so, it must be said that there is no limit to the debate in the home working bodies, which also operate publicly. With regard to the second reading, it is undeniable that the proposed amendment to Article 132, which states: each amendment is voted on after the debate on the amendment. That I wouldn't doubt that there was no debate after the amendment. This means that the applicant will certainly be able to explain the amendment. So you're asking questions here. All you have to do is read it. Don't even ask that. And another will be able to say and discuss it, and then the vote will take place. Thus, the second treatment, where individual problems are dealt with thematically, will not be limited in time. Indeed, it will depend on the proposer, who will mostly be the government, to draw up laws in such a way that there will be relatively few amendments, but not to make it difficult to make decisions with his own amendments. First, it is a matter of defining the foundations of the law. There is probably no need here to present a political position to either speak 11 or 14 or 34 Members. And now the problem here with the time limit, with which the rest of you agree, at least 10 for the Member, at least 5 for Members, is that this is a guarantee. And as soon as you give the guarantee, it's relatively low. Because if I had said, for a Member at least half an hour and for a group of Members at least 1 hour, then we would have automatically extended the time. In this part here, we are not even more rigorous than we were in the current rules of procedure. We had the same time limits here, too. I don't think things are as cruel as you want to show. But I'm aware that a way of realizing it can be harmful for all of us. And if we try, because I imagine talking to college like this, we'll say, this point, we've processed it through working bodies and it doesn't require special discussion, but this point is politically so sensitive that we want to discuss it publicly and it's at least 4 days or 4 hours or half a day to discuss this law. And we're going to be strong enough to make it happen. If we allow the opposition here, for example, in many such cases, to prevent the opposition from speaking, it will find another way and it will be to our detriment. That I will not now urge you to use a case that you have already used several times, which can then happen. This will have to be assessed. And in the end, that's all. See, your proposal, as it is prepared, is also substantively impractical, because it does not say what, who, how it will be decided. All you have is a proposal for a solution to keep Article 1, paragraph 1, the first paragraph as it is written and limited, and paragraph 2 fully states that the restriction on a Member may be a minimum of 5 or a maximum of 10 minutes to the Group of Members. Many issues remain entirely unresolved here. I do not think that such a text is acceptable and that it is possible to make the amendment that we have drafted in the three groups of Members to accept, but I am not talking about it being ideal. Far from it. It is also possible to find another solution for the third treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Would you like to replicate Mr. Potsch's implementation? To renegotiate. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you very much, again. I must say, the proposed article in the 70s seems relatively retrograde to me. Whoever's showing me comparisons from these democracies with a long tradition, I have to say, these aren't real comparisons. For young democracy too violently restricting debates in Parliament can be harmful. I do not know whether the coalition's proponents, who so imagined the rules of procedure and work in Parliament, have not noticed that, through each legislation, Parliament somehow profiles itself, that it remains at a higher level, that the debates are on a higher level, that some irregularities or illogicalities or shortcomings fall away from itself by the growth of tradition, by the growth of parliamentary democracy. You obviously didn't want to be aware of this, but you did go into retrograde solutions, with as much restraint as possible and with some actually completely old-fashioned solutions. Look. I think that, on your own account in this mandate, you might also realize that you are not doing very well. In this mandate, you had some rather long discussions within the coalition here, in these benches. That's how you solved the big illogicalities in your coalition contract. Without these discussions, we would have more cases of laws and laws such as those that fell at the referendum. At least some people here felt that it was not wise to give up the logic of the coalition treaty completely. Look. This novel went on with limited debates. You're not violent, but you forced the opposition, all the parties, so they couldn't cooperate because they didn't want to cooperate, you forced them to obstruct themselves. You had an extremely fast procedure. But look in the mirror what the people said. Look at the plebiscite result and think of such a work, please. If you want to generally these old-fashioned patterns We know that a relatively unlimited mandate in the development of European democracy has played an extremely important function. [[...]] I don't stand for long discussions. However, when we come to Parliament in a situation where there is an extremely poorly tabled bill by the government, when we have ways, in some way destruction, when government Members submit to this same law, I don't know, hundreds of amendments, when they are withdrawn on the last day, I think it is necessary to say a word on such matters. And now you've invented a way and technology when you stop it. But this will be retrograde, it will take you back. In a way I can wish for such your technologies, because you have a Slovenian people for stupid and you still think that they will forever believe everything that is said through the government's mouth. That's the way it works. That's not gonna believe it. Once again, the result of this referendum clearly showed this, and in particular showed that there is currently a completely different political arithmetic in the Slovenian political space, rather than sitting here. [[Laugh.]] Well, I see you're trying to avoid serious things with a joke and a laugh. I also ask, will you now, after applying this rules of procedure, propose that we become normal and that people at least be able to monitor these discussions through TV broadcasts? Will you still have fear of our people to see what is happening in Parliament? Once you have done all of those samples that are the result, I say once again, of an extremely long parliamentary tradition. You know that there was once a completely unlimited debate in England that the Irish, as an important method, chose independence when they also read the Bible, even though I do not stand for it. But know and know that violent patterns are not appropriate here. It's gotta be some kind of genetics. Our Parliament is certainly developing in a positive direction. Now you will stop this development again with some of the imposed methods that come from previous times, which have been brought back to force into this space. That's not good. I'm warning you again. I'm for some restrictions, for a faster procedure absolutely, but ask yourself how much this is necessary right now. In this term, you have spent the most time dealing with each other. And God forbid it would have happened, then the disastrous consequences of such a rule as you invented last fall with a coalition contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We are on letter 11 of the amendment review and also on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, which is identical to the amendment number 1 of which is proposed by the New Slovenia parliamentary group, and we will vote on both at once.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u232	Excuse me, procedurally!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u233	Just that I've explained it to the end. I saw your hand. Here you are, Mr. Petty Officer, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u234	I propose a procedural proposal. In view of the debate on an article where the coalition itself is not clear, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request a half break so that the groups of Members can agree on and consult on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u235	Mr. Petty Officer, you proposed in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u236	On behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Group of Members, I shall request a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But I've already told you the reasons. But you probably know the MPs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u237	The Rules of Procedure set out in its Article, there is no restriction, the practice was to agree before deciding on the groups of Members. Because we are [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] The misunderstanding is clearly unclear. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u238	Yes, well, I repeat the procedural proposal. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, our New Slovenia Group requests NSI 30 minutes of recess to consult each other, not with others, and others I do not know if you are needed to vote on this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-06-27-SDZ3-Redna-07.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure allow us to consult in our group on the proposal of the Group of Members, so for today we end work because it is 5:35 and tomorrow we continue at 10 a.m. with this item on the agenda, we vote on the 70th Article and on the amendments to this Article. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Goodbye. The session was suspended by 27. JUNE 2001 AT 17.35 URI.)
