ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following colleagues: Mr Roman Jakič, Mrs Lidija Majnik, Mr Alexander Merlo and Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Let's find out who's in the hall! [[51 Members and Members.]] The assembly is adjourned and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting, and I welcome everything. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The logs are available on the computer network. Does one of the respected colleagues require a change or supplement or any other comment to the minutes? I note that there are no comments to the minutes of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[58 present.]] [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] Since no comments were made to the minutes of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are also moving on to a decision on the adoption of this minutes. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[59 present.]] [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. We are moving on to the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 18 January 2001. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. The government proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on referendum and on human initiative. Does the motioner want to withdraw his word? I guess not. Representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. [[No one wants to.]] Does the proposer want a word now, at the end? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. Presence! [[70 present.]] [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda has been adopted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. We have not received any proposals for enlargement. Anyone want a word about that? Please, Comrade Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u2	You missed me at the retreat earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u3	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u4	I therefore propose, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that today's meeting, i.e. the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, should take place [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u5	My friend Peca, you're so kind and you can get up, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u6	To withdraw from the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly the 11th item - a proposal for a law on specific measures for the control of shops at road border crossings. The proposal is based on the fact that not all conditions have yet been given to allow for closure as quickly as this law provides. Please put the motion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We've heard a proposal from a fellow seal. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Probably, given that there was no discussion, the proposaler does not want another word. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw the law on specific measures for control of shops at road border crossings. We're voting. Presence! [[73 present.]] [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal by my colleague, Mr Pečet, for the withdrawal of the 11th point has not been adopted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. I have not received any proposals for enlargement. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why we are moving on to a decision on proposals for a fast-track procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Assembly proposing that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Legal Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[77 present.]] [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on plant protection products for consideration by the assembly; it proposes that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The text is spoken by representatives of the parliamentary groups - does anyone want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[80 present.]] [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a veterinary law for consideration by the assembly and proposes that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The working body of the mother has not yet been identified before the proposal. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Neither do I.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[80 present.]] [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on librarianism for consideration by the Council and proposes that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body does not support the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law. Does the rapporteur want a word? Please, President, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government has introduced this law into the procedure by normal procedure. The government then introduced a statutory cultural law into the procedure, and because it said that this law was linked to the roofing law on culture, this was one reason to adopt it quickly. However, since the government has now withdrawn this roofing law on culture twice and is not in the process and is the law on librarianism that we are going to talk about today, one of the basic laws that regulates the organisation and financing of libraries in detail, and especially there is a very close relationship between the powers of local communities and the state, the Committee has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it in accordance with the normal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No one wants to.]] He wants the word "governance"? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[80 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 67.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted, so we will consider it a first-reading bill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the Council of Europe development bank for consideration by the Council of Europe and proposes that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. I ask the rapporteur if he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Nobody wants a word. A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[82 Members and Members.]] [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credit liabilities contracted by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Fund for Regional Development and Preservation of the Slovenian Rural in accordance with the Council of Europe for Social Development for the implementation of programmes for the implementation of the earthquake recovery and promotion of the development of the Court, and proposes to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Neither do I. Representatives of parliamentary groups? Nobody. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Let's find out who's here! [[84 Members and Members.]] [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A group of Members with the first-signed Zmaća Jelinčič submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act and proposing to the assembly that it should be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a very important marriage and a very important matter. On the one hand, it is a matter of harmonising everything together with the requirements of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, it is a matter of at least some degree of regulation of cases which are totally unsettled in this area. I hope that the suggestion will be made to adopt this law in a simplified manner, and I also hope that amendments will be adopted. For the government has, in fact, already decided to break this law, no matter what, because it is written in a coalition contract that the law must be broken. I hope that common sense will prevail, that there will be a tendency and desire to have our affairs regulated in the Republic of Slovenia and that we have a structured way of limiting or preventing the grey economy. If we do not adopt this law in a short-term manner, as well as the amendments against which the government is against, we will continue to support the grey economy and increasingly strengthen the belief among the Slovenian population that coalition parties also fill their mosses and pockets from the grey economy segment. I would not want this thinking to prevail in Slovenia. However, it seems to me that this thinking is increasingly present. I therefore propose that we vote on this proposal and adopt it in a simplified manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? Please! You have the right to perform. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In any event, the parent’s working body has been identified and supports the rapid procedure. But now I wouldn't be substantiating it any further. We'll deal with this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] Proposer, would you like another word, Comrade Jelinčič? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. Presence! [[84 present.]] [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal to adopt that law by means of a rapid procedure has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for short-term adoption. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Vizjak submitted a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and proposes to the assembly that it should be adopted after a reduced procedure. The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that act by means of a reduced procedure. Does the motioner want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] A representative of the government? Neither do I. I conclude the debate and, before we go to the vote, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt an act after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present or Members present oppose it. We're voting on the proposal. Let's find out who's here! [[85 present.]] [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law supplementing the law on rail transport and proposes to the assembly to adopt it following a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? We'll be very grateful to the ministers if they don't talk when they're in the hall. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The parent working body shall agree on the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? Neither do I. Representatives of the parliamentary groups. [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and, before we turn to this vote, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members and Members present oppose it. We're voting on the proposal. Let's find out who's here! [[85 present.]] [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving to a full vote on the draft agenda. I propose the agenda as received by reference and the amendments and additions adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft agenda and we are voting on it as well. Let's find out who's here! Please explain. Comrade Jelinčič, we are in the middle of a vote. We're in the middle of a vote, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u14	Yes, Mr. President, may I not explain my vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u15	We're in the middle of a vote, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u16	Yeah, I'm holding my hand up, and you don't want to look at me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u17	Just to end the vote, then we'll make it clear whether I put it to the vote too quickly or not. I can't say a word to anyone in the middle of this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u18	I'll be louder next time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u19	My colleague, Mr Jelinčič, I may have put the proposal to the vote too quickly, and in so far as this was my fault, I will propose that we repeat the vote. If you think your explanation is important, then I will. But if you're so kind as not to do so, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the explanation, but my decision is democratic. It doesn't matter whether it matters or not. No one can deny me the opportunity to explain and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u21	I would certainly not like to do that, so I propose to the National Assembly that we repeat the vote. We will do so after Comrade Jelinčič has explained his voice. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote, both myself and the entire Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will vote "against" this agenda, for one reason, because the proposal for a law on specific control measures for shops at road border crossings, EPA 1072/II, remained on the agenda. Indeed, we are convinced that we are working at all with regard to this law to the extreme harm to the Republic of Slovenia. We are doing this damage because the state has not prepared anything that should be done in order to be able to deal with this law. After all, the State is in violation of both positive law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by examining this law. And since we feel that we must not support violations of the Constitution in the National Assembly, despite the fact that the coalition has a two-thirds or even larger majority, we have demanded that our voice be at least heard if it cannot already decide. I think we should follow other countries in this case. If not to others, at least the Czech Republic, which some set as an example for many, because the Czech Republic will keep duty-free shops, as in the end they still have Austria, Greece and many other countries, they have only renamed them. In short, one more time. We will vote "against" because we feel that, by adopting this law, we are making anti-State movements in the economic field. Given that the country is not doing very well in the economic field, I think it would make sense for other colleagues to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. I propose we re-vote on the agenda. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're picking up the presence! [[85 Members and Members.]] [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the agenda for the 2nd regular meeting has been adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the College of the President of the National Assembly, we agreed on the rule that each time the National Assembly sets its agenda, the questions of MEPs and Members, first of all on the first three opposition questions, will be determined by the Prime Minister's half-life. Please be punctual in the hall. We resume the meeting at exactly 3 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues, guests at the meeting, Mr. Prime Minister! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. During the business period one day before the meeting, we received written applications for questions and initiatives sent. The order for asking questions and initiatives is laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the first three questions or initiatives are posed by members of the opposition and then by members of the various parliamentary groups in the order of their application. Members and Members, I would like to point out that the question sent must be brief and put in such a way that its content is clear. The oral question or initiative should not last more than three minutes and the ministers should not be answered more than ten minutes. The Member's supplementary question shall not last more than two minutes. As it is said, the first three parliamentary questions will be answered by Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek. The first question of the delegation will be raised by Comrade Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why it has not yet paid the salaries of the police in 1992, because it has granted police officers ownership certificates in contrast to wages paid and unpaid salaries in accordance with the collective agreement on non-economic activities for the period from 1.1.1992 to 31.10.1992. In this regard, given that approximately 54,000 hours were collected on police administrations - the police or the ministry recognises them 35 - and it is interesting in this regard that half of this money is not paid. I ask you: Is it true that half of this money, this money, went to transfer illegal refugees from Ljubljana to Vidonca, is it at the expense of the working hours of Slovenian citizens? The police are Slovenian citizens and we give money for foreigners. I also ask: Is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia aware of the police's request and is it also aware of the measures threatened to sue the country for non-payment of salaries? At the same time, why is the Ministry of the Interior deliberately violating its own legislation on the transfer of unpaid funds, so to speak, in the following year? I would also ask if I could find out or find out about the period within which the total number of hours worked will be paid. And one more question. I wonder: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ensure that the minutes of a closed government meeting are not destroyed, at which time it dealt with the terrorist act of Morris's members when they planted an explosive device under my car in 1993, 13 April, which exploded and, perhaps, to the pleasure of a lot of people in here, did not cause any more damage, so that I can still ask questions from Members? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u27	Dear Member, Mr. Jelinčič! You probably won't be surprised if I say these are the kind of questions the government will provide a written answer to. Written answer about the data or payments of overtime wages and the like. It is not known to me that there would be any link between the decision to relocate refugees and the payment of overtime or wages. If the Minister of the Interior can say anything about this subject today, I would ask him to do so. Otherwise, we will provide a written answer to your questions. As far as the record you spoke of is concerned. I must say that I could not comment on this, but it is clear that the government has never and will never destroy any records of its meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much. An additional question, Comrade Jelinčič. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u29	In fact, thank you very much to the First Minister for ensuring that the government will not destroy the records. Because I think that these records will play an important role in court, both in Slovenia and in the European public, insofar as matters do not comply with positive law and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are guaranteed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior wants a word. If that's what you agree with? [[No, no, ……]] Anything you'd like to add, Mr. Prime Minister? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u31	No, I would just add that I don't know which government meeting this is supposed to be, the case with this record. I couldn't comment on that. But as I said, we will respond in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your second question will be asked by colleague Janez Janš. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u33	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of December last year, the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Mirko Bandelj, sent an act or letter to all the ministries and government services in which he ordered all the officers to draw up a list of all the appointments of senior administrative staff from 8 June to November last year, at the time the Bajuk government was in office. The order concerned the making of lists of all appointments, whether there was any suspicion of irregularities or not, but it was a simple order to draw up lists of all appointments at the time of the previous government. When some ministries sent these lists and created a larger list in the hands of Mr Bandlje, they call him Bandlje's list in the administration, the Secretary-General requested additional documents, including photocopies of specific documents, that is to say working books of all these people, again without any explanation, or appointments that could be disputed, but for all appointments during the previous government. In short, it was a political request. At the same time, the Government's Human Resources Service has drawn up instructions that it has sent to ministries and government offices. In these instructions, it shall order officials in these ministries to whom the articles are to be referred when replacing the senior administrative officials appointed by the previous government. At the same time, the government, the current government, at its 2nd meeting, on 8.12.2000, also adopted a decision under item 1c, which reads: "Ministers must prepare a work rationalisation programme by the end of December 2000 and determine the number of unnecessary workers in accordance with the Law on Workers in State Authorities." At first glance, this is of course a commendable act; the public can greet it, czech, it is a rationalisation of the state administration, but things have not been so. In ministries, employee lists are drawn up where they were employed during the previous government, from June to November of last year. In the end, it is a matter of drawing up lists of people to be shot off on a political basis, irrespective of the professional criteria and whether or not people meet job requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u34	Your time is up, Comrade Janša. If you can close.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u35	Yeah. I ask the Prime Minister what he will do to stop this cleaning in the public administration on the basis of political criteria and to stop the negative political lustration.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u37	Mr. Janša! I could not talk about specific letters that may or may not have been issued by the Secretary-General of the Government in respect of personnel. However, the Secretary-General has also recently received from my side an order to prepare a more extensive or more complex analysis of the human resources changes that have taken place at this time, that is, when our government takes over, in view of the many issues that have arisen both in the National Assembly and in the public, if there are too many changes or staff clearances. It is therefore my intention to present to both the national assembly and the public a clear picture of how many exchanges have been made, for what reasons, and of course to provide appropriate answers to all the questions. It was not our intention, and it is still not to perform any cleansing, but, of course, every minister in his field adopts appropriate proposals, solutions, establishes his personnel teams and, of course, follows, must comply with the rules and in accordance with rationality. But so that we don't always talk like this, I think it would be a complex presentation and a comparison, that is, with the previous period probably makes sense. But that is certainly one question. The second issue is indeed the rationalisation of work in public administration. These two issues are not related, in some cases they may be intertwined, but they are of course completely different things. In ministries there are, if we say so, surpluses, including mergers of ministries, for example, there are additional needs for staff in some areas, particularly those where we are dealing with priorities related to the European Union. So the first purpose of rationalisation is to find out where we have available human resources potentials or even surpluses and where we have a deficit. In the first stage make this internal replacement and distribution of people. And only in the second phase, if there were surpluses, of course, in accordance with the rules then proceed further, or if the shortages of course of personnel remain, try again to gain or resolve those human resources gaps that could still exist in certain areas. I think it is in everyone's interest, but above all, as Prime Minister, I think that we should put things in our place to give clear answers. I think that every government has the right, of course, to set up some of its own teams; this was done by the previous, intermediate government or government of Mr Baiuk. To a large extent, this triggered or led to the fact that now some teams have been added, at least partially replaced, because they have come, a new government, new ministers, with new perspectives, with new priorities, and of course part of normal staffing, which requires some regular human resources procedures. However, I think the National Assembly will also be interested in getting some comprehensive analysis or comprehensive review and putting things in place. As of course, if it is information that there is any action outside the rules, we will, of course, act within the government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. My friend Janš wants to ask a further question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you for that partial answer. Of course, I do not dispute the right of every government to set up its teams and, as you have seen in the past months, we have never done that either. It is controversial, however, that lists are made, whether there was anything in the appointment of senior administrative workers - this is not the political level of the state administration - wrongly or not, and that this is limited to the terms in which the previous government acted. This is clearly a matter of making political lists. Of course, rationalisation in public administration is necessary, but not only rationalisation among people who were employed from June to November last year. However, lists are made for these months, and it is not possible to call it rationalisation, but cleaning, and it is also about levels that have nothing to do with any policy, from completely ordinary physical workers in ministries to lower administrative workers. I would like to believe that this is some comprehensive analysis, as you say, Mr Prime Minister, but obviously your Secretary-General does not think so. Because people have already received decisions in recent days, in particular some of the State Undersecretaries appointed in the previous term, explaining that they have been appointed without a call for proposals. It is possible that there was a dispute in the appointment of some, including their appointment without a public invitation to tender. However, if this has occurred, it is not the fault of those who have been appointed, but it is the organ’s fault, and therefore cannot lose their working relationship. That's one. Secondly, as far as we have checked this in the previous term, virtually no State Undersecretary of State has been appointed in the last eight years, I think around 600 has not been appointed on the basis of a public invitation to tender or very little. And now only those who have been appointed without invitation to tender in the last months of last year are receiving discharge decisions. Of course, it's not respect for the law, but it's something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to answer an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u41	Well, I think he'll be able to answer these questions with such a comprehensive review, let's see. I would also like to see information about how many people the previous government has changed and how many they have changed. And then, of course, it'll be easier to see if it was ever about any personnel cleaning or not. Although this concept is, of course, very relative; indeed, there are also appropriate changes in teams in government or administrations around the world. This is happening at the moment, for example, in the U.S. administration to a large extent. I said before that, when the previous government was making its replacements, I was surprised that they were so extensive because they were so close to the end of the mandate. In this case, of course, it is a matter of work, a new four-year mandate, and it is normal for some teams to be established with which the government must carry out those priorities that they have set for people, voters and for whom people have also voted. Now, of course, we have to do this with all our responsibility. However, I insist, and a comparison will have to be made, of course, to assess the correctness of the procedures, both of the previous governments and of the current ones, in the conduct of human resources procedures. Perhaps this whole discussion will lead us to set some standards in our country as well, what is actually normal staffing, including when replacing, say governments, with mandates, and what is actually something that is exaggerated over this. So let us both try to contribute to the establishment of some standards of normality in this area in our country as well. Once we've made such an assessment, such information, of course, I'll pass it on to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Question three, please? [[...]] No, there are no procedural questions. Comrade Janš, there are no procedural issues at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u43	Yes, it is. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, our Group of Members requests that this issue be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u44	What article are you suggesting, buddy? At the request of at least ten Members or a parliamentary group - please turn off your cell phone in the Chamber - there will be a debate in the National Assembly on the government's response. We are moving on to a debate on the government's response to the Member of Parliament's question, colleague Janez Janša. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant of the request. He's got until 15 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u45	So, as we said before, we are not questioning this or any other government to set up its own team. What is at stake in this conduct, in particular the Secretary-General of the Government, is that this exchange and, in particular, the changes that have already been made, especially those that are still being prepared on the basis of lists that exist and are a fact, the material fact that it is an intervention in the State administration, that level that is not political, and that exchanges take place without any professional criteria. As has already been said, the government, in which there has always been a liberal democracy and Mr Drnovšek has always been the president, since 1992, appointed several 100 state secretaries without a call for tender. In recent days there have been some secretaries of state, which is also a fact - I am not talking about what will happen, but about what has happened - I also have decisions here that have been appointed to the mandate of the previous government, that have been resolved because they have been appointed without a call for tender. Of course, it's the wrong thing to do. If the government takes the view that all senior executives who have been appointed without a call for tender are to be dismissed, a thousand of them must be dissolved. In no way can these criteria limit only to the mandate of the previous government for six months. That's perfectly clear. The second part of the issue, which concerned normal employment during the term of the previous government's mandate, which was very short, of course does not concern the political level. In many cases, the employment of people who had been in the process before, it is said that before its term of office of the Bajuk government, there has been a normal continuity, no one has been interrupted in this process and everything has taken place within the framework of quotas, which the previous government has mainly set. It is said that not the government that took up its mandate in June, but the one that carried out its mandate earlier. We have not changed any rules here, except for the Ministry of the Interior, where additional employment was involved in the establishment of the Schengen border, and the principle decision has been adopted here before. Excusing all these measures, and in particular drawing up these lists by simply saying that a new suit has come that now sets its people, in this case it does not hold back, in this case. Certainly, the government in its previous mandate, our government, the Bayuk government, however, the government in which we were, has made a number of political appointments, including some who were publicly accepted with a very large scepticism and have raised serious concerns in the then coalition. But interestingly, the government that is now in power has not solved these people. Those appointments, which were most political, are still valid because they are a party from which these people were also in this government coalition, and they are cleaned after the 3rd, 4th or 5th level of the government, where there were no political appointments and they are all or at least 99% of those who were appointed or employed, of course, had to meet all the criteria. Well, that, too. This government, which is now in the hands of all executive powers, has only conducted two meetings of the government with more staff replacements than the Bajuk government in all months of its rule, in number and in scope. So much for those who wrote about cleaning at the time, but now they're talking about urgent rationalisation in the state administration. I believe that a lot of what I have been talking about has also been done beyond the government's conclusions, but it certainly wasn't the Ministry's will. We simply have letters written by the Secretary-General of the Government to the Ministry. It is not a matter of any confidential mail, but this mail is controversial because it enforces political criteria for working in the public administration. It enforces something that used to be. I also believe that the Prime Minister did not know that this may also be a bit of an overcrowding by the Secretary-General of the Government, who was also the Minister of the Interior, but he lost that position in the previous term and may be a little vague when it comes to rational facts and respect for laws. However, I think that effective and professional state administrations in Slovenia in this way will never have enough problems that we all recognise, around which this National Assembly will also have to take a series of measures. Finally, the reform of the state administration is also required from Brussels, and it would be good for the Secretary-General of the Government and all others in charge to do so, not with political cleansing. Once on the agenda, when dealing with this, they will also have a lot of support from the opposition, even when it comes to rationalising the state administration, but it must be done on the basis of professional criteria, not on the basis of who is ours and who is not ours, who was appointed or employed during one or another government. By drawing up these lists as requested by the Secretary-General of the Government, it is not only morally but also legally controversial. There is no legal basis in any law for the Secretary-General to require the production of such lists, and even less so is the legal basis for the subsequent requirement that photocopies of personal documents appear as an annex to these lists. It is also very interesting that, let's say, a very loud union of workers in the state administration does not announce anything this time, it has press conferences and protests on every other occasion, and now there is obviously some kind of agreement, and apparently this union is in control of the same policy, which also has the main word in the government coalition. So I once again appeal to the Prime Minister, whom I believe is that with the details and these decisions he is not aware that he is getting deeper into this matter, not when an analysis is due, but now that there are concrete consequences, because people are getting decisions and, of course, they are going to lawyers and to the courts in the same hour. The final result will be that, for sure, we are so familiar with the law that these decisions will be repealed and taxpayers will pay back the financial consequences of such behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much. A representative of the government? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u47	As this debate is already today, I propose that the Secretary-General of the Government answer these questions on the basis of the documentation and, of course, the numbers he already has. I think with this, there will be a lot of answers. All I would say is that, as Prime Minister, I have no impression that this government would be treated more kindly, not in the media or by trade unions, but by the previous government. Although this government, of course, has not yet taken place in the first hundred days of its operation, so that at least, of course, at this point, at least I could not agree somehow. Please, if the Secretary-General can.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u48	Please, the Secretary-General of the Government has the floor. In accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government shall have 15 minutes to respond to the first 15 minutes of the panel. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much and very much. Dear Members and Members! I must say that most of what Member Janša has explained is not true in both the question and the explanation for the debate. I would, of course, start with the records that I said I wrote them around and should contain political criteria for the preparation of some lists, exchanges and so on. I must say, of course, none of this is true. I would rather take advantage of Mr Jelinčič's question, the last one concerned by the government's documentation. I must say that I, too, am concerned about the fate of the documentation and one of the tasks of the Secretary-General is to ensure that all the work of the Government, government services, is also properly documented, archived and, of course, disposed of for later use on the relevant media. That's why I wrote a letter to all the chiefs and ministers. The former government was doing something that was incomprehensible to me. She didn't leave any records behind. For example, in human resources matters, this was particularly obvious. In the government's staff service, there is simply no documentation for a rather nice number of personnel changes, appointments, exchanges that have been made. This letter is not so long, I can also read it and you will find out where there is any basis for political criteria or lists to serve as cleaners. During the period between 8.6. and 30.11., the government appointed Dr. Andre Bajuk as senior executives. In doing so, certain appointments were made without taking into account the established procedure, which takes place from the proposal of the President through the staff service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to a preliminary hearing on the Commission for Personnel and Administrative Affairs and finally until the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Without going to this place for reasons of such conduct, I note that the Personnel Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have all the documentation which is the basis for the appointment of a higher administrative officer. For this reason, as well as for a clear picture of the appointments made to the public, I believe that the missing documentation needs to be supplemented. Therefore, I respectfully ask that for all senior administrative staff appointed during this period, you collect documentation relating to the procedure for their selection and appointment. This means documentation covering the procedure from the publication of the vacancy to the issuing of the selection decision and the documentation submitted by the selected candidate and from which the conditions for appointment are evident. For senior administrative workers who have made progress within the body or service, please provide documentation showing compliance with the conditions for appointment and placement. I ask you politely to send a photocopy of that documentation to the government's staff service," and the deadline is set. "With such collected material, I just want to provide assistance to the government's staff service in updating the archive and get a clear picture of the appointments that are the subject of numerous media misunderstandings due to incomplete data." I don't know if anyone else sees this political criterion, but I don't. However, I must say that this problem has been politicized in public, and that is why we, at the outset, were not able to provide the right data on the number of jobs during the Bajuk government, even though the public demanded it, so there were different numbers. In fact, we as a government have been without documentation so that we can give a clear picture at all. Today, the picture is clear as to how cooperative the ministers and heads of government services were and responded to this request. It is clear today that during the Bajuk government period, 930 people were employed in the state administration, and it is also clear that at the time of the new government, as of 1 December, we have hired 108 more people, 108 more of whom have already had decisions on the choice made during the previous government, and, of course, the right to work, and we have also hired them. I may also give an illustration of the staffing structure of employment. If the government of Drnovško, say, last year from 1.1 to 1.6, was characterised by the fact that, on the basis of the budget and employment plan, 318 people were employed, I must say that the majority of these 77.3% were highly educated people on the specific priorities that Parliament had adopted when the budget was adopted; this was mainly about Europe, and financial resources in the budget were also provided for all these jobs. Between 1st and 1st December, the government hired - and this time I will also dismiss the police and soldiers, as I did in the previous case that the methodology will be the same - 430 people, of which only 180 were highly educated or 41.7%. Even after the government took over on 1 December, different questions arose in the ministries about what to do with people who do not meet the appropriate qualifications for how to treat them. In this regard, in fact, the Government staff service has drawn up a review of the system, the rules in force and how it can react in such cases. This is where a range of options were proposed or indicated, from the renewal of the procedure to the challenge of the decision to appoint in an administrative dispute, to the resolution of the termination of the employment relationship - legal information that has only summarized the rules and served as an aid to ministers to decide when they take over the tasks and when they are essentially setting up the organisation in a way that they can function as ministers and ministries. On the basis of this information, several ministers have in fact decided to propose some exceptional legal remedies, in which case the renewal of the procedure. Indeed, three people, I think, from the Ministry of Labour, have already obtained a decision on discharge or on the abolition of the decision that appointed them Undersecretaries of State because these appointments were not made on the basis of a call for tender. It is not true that all Undersecretaries of State and always the law would be called for. No, the invitation to tender is necessary for employment in the public administration and, as a rule, people employed in the state administration come to the title of Undersecretary of State on the basis of a hierarchy and on the basis of some working age and experience and quality shown at the time of employment in the state administration. This is a normal promotion where no invitation to tender is required, of course. However, there is no very old date for the regulation that would make the tenders. So many of these people who already have titles have, of course, been employed in the state administration before the tenders entered into force. In short, even in this direction and in the range of options that ministers have gathered, a very, I would say, selective approach has been taken. Only where the law was in fact totally breached did the ministers propose to abolish the decision. As many people as they need for these jobs, they will be invited, and the state undersecretaries who have been thus dismissed, because they have been unlawfully appointed, but have the opportunity to apply. I think there's gonna be some more cases like this. I think that I also have this kind of proposal from the Minister for the Economy, and I think there will probably be another one, but there is certainly no list to work on in order to do the cleaning. A few more stats. First of all, because there is so much talk about political criteria, about what the Drnovšk government has done at two meetings of the higher-a-vis previous government. I'll say first what anyone can see visually: these are the changes of the Bajuk government, they're written on 74 pages. In the same way, with the same spaces between lines, with the same letters, these are the changes of Drnovskov's government, written on 19 pages. The ratio is 1:4. And some other statistics. Bayuk's government, for example. replaced by 12 directors of companies. I am talking about those exchanges that the methodology will also be the same this time, because it was actually about the exchange before the end of the mandate or without identifying the ground of guilt, if we say so. In companies, Bajuk's government changed 12 directors, Drnovskov's government 2, and one of them was guilty. She traded 107 members of the supervisory boards in companies, Drnovskov's government 46. In the funds she exchanged 4 funds, Drnovšk's government none. In the institutions, the government of Bajuk changed 25 members, Drnovskov 6. Bajuk's government has changed one director of the agency and one member of the Council, Drnovsk's government of no one. Under this criterion, I could continue. As long as it's about my zeal. I'm one of the ones who's the least of them, so I guess I "split" as an interior minister, because I was just counting on him to always work with the people who work there. I didn't change anyone in my current job, not the chief of staff, not the secretary. All I'm gonna say is, if we're going to pull parallels with those places in the state administration, where it's somehow the most logical thing to do is to make the changes. I'll tell you what else. Bajuk's government changed 11 directors of government services. I'd hardly say any of these were particularly political. Of these 11 are still 8 in the same places today, only 3 have been replaced by this government, and it would be difficult to say that any political change was involved in the exchange of the Director of the Disability Office. However, I agree that I think it was necessary to change the director of the Human Resources Service as the first one and the directors of the Information Office as well. The government of Drnovskov also exchanged less than Bajukov's, even though half the coalition remained the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word from the government? Is it still a while? [[No, no, ……]] I propose that we give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, a colleague of Loyza Peterle, New Slovenia's parliamentary group, applied. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr President, Minister and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. One thing is undoubtedly the rationalisation of the administration, which has been discussed in this country for a long time and which has never been doubted or agreed upon at the principal level. He also spoke repeatedly in this direction or in this sense. The second is the right of the government, as Dr. Drnovšek said to set up his team. So if this right is available, if we recognize it one and the other, then why do so many double criteria, why do they change one, so much talk about cleaning, and when they change the other, it's about rationalization. If it were not for these double criteria, if only someone were allowed to take power, they would take responsibility, so something in the human resources field is changing, so if there was no stumbling block, this debate would obviously fall away and the current opposition would not be brought into the swaps that the new team believes are justified. I think there's a lot of problems because you play a double game because you categorize the actions of the same type into different categories, with different people. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. Of course, this right, which the Prime Minister has also talked about, is another in the context of these human resources exchanges, is the abolition of formal government decisions that have been democratically put forward and cannot be interpreted differently than the breach of political interest in the field or in various areas. I, Mr President, have for the last time pointed out something unheard of, refers to the fact that, for the first time in democratic Slovenia, the government has also resorted to the human resources field of diplomacy and has apparently annulled the conclusions on the appointment of two general consuls who have been appointed or appointed on the basis of professional criteria. They've both had this kind of experience. And not only did it happen for the first time, but it was after one of these names had already received an aggressive host state, something similar when it came to a diplomat or a known ambassador to China. Then, on the other hand, the case fell. This is where she fell, thanks to the government. I think it has a very bad effect on our view in the international space. It was also heard that the procedures had been suspended or suspended formally before the government had concluded. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should not inform the host countries that he is terminating the desire to obtain consent for the two general consuls, but should at least wait for the formal decision of the government. That is why I am also asking when decisions were taken which annulled previous decisions for the General Consulate in Munich and Celovac and when the Ministry reacted in this way. I'm also protesting this, I can't find a better word for this action, that they didn't want to inform these people or that they weren't informed of what happened to them. One was transferred, one was taken from a SIM card. Interesting, no!? I'll say again: one thing that is acceptable is that people are humiliated and exercised in this way, and I don't think it's right. She didn't go to the next Undersecretary of State, but she went to a waiter in the same department who didn't have a state phone until now, and now she's got one. Because it was just a matter of showing power, they said, "I'd rather give it to the waiter than you. The waiter is an honorable profession, I'm not talking about a person, I'm talking about the levels that this authority has afforded at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I don't think that's going anywhere. You would expect him to be a Member or not to treat people differently. If you have overturned those conclusions, I think it would be appropriate, dignified and in line with the ethos to inform people: "Sorry, we think otherwise, we think we have some grounds, you will not go there and we will put some other people." One of them was saying, if you were not good enough for that town, you'd be good for a small town, and you'd be a general consul. You know, these are games that are unworthy. I hope that this will no longer happen and that the conclusions of a government that has been democratically formalised will be respected. I'm saying this is the first time this has happened. No other government has abolished diplomatic appointments. Mr President, I ask you to intervene in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Peterle. Mr Janez Janša, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Mr. Minister, there is no application to the word - there is no replica [[in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 29, the procedure for examining this point shall be specified]] . My friend Janš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, I must say that the numbers mentioned earlier by the Secretary-General of the Government do not seem to hold. I can think of more exchanges in government offices than he's listed. In addition, it considers in the exchanges of the previous government all those appointments of senior administrative workers that have taken place following automation. Mr Bandelj, 90% of these appointments referred to the people you employed in the previous government; these were not any new personnel that the new government would bring, but were routine promotions and appointments within the government, among the people you had previously employed when you were secretary-general or anywhere in the ministry. Of course, all of this cannot be compared. But I am very grateful that you have read the letter yourself, otherwise I should, and you have saved me time. From what you have read, it is clear that you have not only requested lists of those who lacked documentation or where there was any suspicion that it was wrong, but you, and you have read it before, requested a list of all the appointments, from-to, regardless of whether something was wrong or was not wrong. So it was a political list you requested. If you wrote there that you were requesting missing documentation, normal business, but you requested a list of appointments during the previous government and nothing else. All that was added was good-natured. And also how you didn't change anything, you know, it's a little bit like people who were employed in the government secretariat, the minute the new government was voted here, they couldn't even go to their offices because you blocked their entry cards and they had to ask nicely that at least the drawers could be cleaned up. [[...]] This was the case at the time, and this was the case. When Bajuk's government took over its responsibility, none of the senior executives received a "roadside" decision. If you know of a case, let me know. Nobody lost their job. The decisions by which people de facto remain on the road, even though they can complain, will be over - depending on how our judiciary works - four or five years old and now they are on the road. Nor is it true that you continued your procedures. Most ministries [[there is documentation on this]] already in December, it stopped all procedures, all the people who were in the employment process. The former government has never done that. She's never done it. As far as the tenders are concerned, we have not found a single case where the Undersecretary of State, who has come to the new state administration, would have been accepted on the basis of a public tender. You named everyone you named in the same way as during the previous government, which had a very short mandate. As far as directors of public companies are concerned, this list of yours included those where there was an exchange of mandates. During the period June to November last year, a mandate expired in many public companies where the government is operating under the law of appointment. It wasn't a trade, but it was a normal appointment. However, there were also some cases where a replacement had to be made. One of these cases, very pervasive, is electricity. The government received the documentation on the table, which indicated that the former director, who is said to be the director again, after the government had decided not to sell electricity to Croatia from the Krško nuclear power plant after 9 tolars, if I am not mistaken, for a kilowatt hour, the same electricity, only via the Austrian intermediary, sold to Croatia by the same waters, for 6 tolars. But of course, the difference went, we don't know where, but there must have been a poster somewhere in the pre-election period. At the time, however, it was necessary to act, and the government therefore dismissed this Director of Public Enterprise and I am still convinced that it acted very well and in favour of Slovenian taxpayers. So much for that. In short, I appeal once again to the President not to wait for any analysis, because when this analysis is done, the cleaning will also be completed, but to act now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. He wants another word from any of the MPs? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The third person who will be able to ask a question from the Prime Minister is mag. Janez Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, a nice welcome to the Prime Minister Drnovsku. I also welcome the ministers and ministers and, of course, my colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber. I'd like to ask Dr. Drnovsch a question about pensions. As you know, for the year 2000, it has been announced that it will amount to a deficit in the pension fund of about 13 billion. When Bajuk's government took over the government, it was found that the deficit would be significantly higher, so that it would be around 27 billion. Further calculations have also shown that there are problems in the pension register. The new government is, of course, proposing a change, a new amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance in terms of pension coordination. What have we gained from this coordination? Deep indeed into pensions, and all the same: the lowest and the highest. When we asked the Minister for Labour, Dr. Dimovski, what this new mode of coordination would mean, after about 3 hours, he replied that it would mean a good 20, maybe a few billion. It is now established on the basis of a statement by the Minister of Finance, Mag. Robbery, that was Monday on TV, so the pension office would even have a surplus. Do you have to imagine? Now we're talking about surplus, we're talking in a month about surplus in the pension box. This means that the incision in pensions is extremely severe. The problem is also that people have not been informed of the consequences of changes. I now ask you a question, Mr Prime Minister. Do you agree that this surplus promised to us by the Minister of Finance in order to improve the minimum pensions? So the rights of those most hit or hit with the same degree as those with the highest pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u57	Your Honor! The issue of pensions and pensions is one of the most important issues in our country and also one of the most important public finance issues. The government has been working for many years to lead a balanced policy, to provide as high a pension as possible or as high a pension as possible in such a way that it remains sustainable for our public finances. Therefore, it has been a practice for several years to cover the actual pension deficit from the state budget. I think that about 4% of the social product is allocated annually as a transfer from the pension insurance budget, and this is because there is no need to increase the contribution rate for pension employment, as this would directly burden labour intensive companies, such as the textile industry, the leather industry. Thus, in these sectors, which employ relatively many people, there would, of course, be major problems and probably a loss of a lot of jobs. Therefore, a few years ago, we consciously decided that we would in some way impose additional burden on budget funding to burden this part of the economy and try to sustain it in an international competition. We mostly listen by our experts, Slovenian economic experts, and by international institutions to serious warnings about pension insurance, regarding the financing of pension insurance within the overall public finances. We have a relatively unfavourable relationship between pensioners and active workers. Population is increasing, life is increasing, and of course this problem is becoming a major problem, not only for Slovenia, but for all developed countries. Thus, almost all European countries, members of the European Union, have problems similar to those we have in Slovenia. That is why pension reforms are also being implemented, and that is why we have already carried out a pension reform in 1999, which the professional public considers to be part of the first step, and that we will need to take further steps in the coming years to establish a sustainable pension scheme. What the government submitted and also the National Assembly confirmed at the end of 2000 as a basis for funding in 2001 is, according to our assessment and according to the expert public assessment, the minimum of what was needed to be regulated in the pension coordination formula in order to avoid excessive distortions in coordination over a given period. It is indeed a minimum that will be necessary to ensure the sustainability of public finances without actually affecting anyone in this country. So we cannot talk about the fact that there are now some surpluses in pension balances, because there is still a very large deficit financed by the State from the budget. If we imagine otherwise, if at this point we say that the state budget is burdened with pension transfers and that this is covered, let's say, directly from the contribution, of course, our public finances, our budget would probably have three percent surplus, not one percent deficit. The picture would be completely different. However, the picture would also be completely different in the economy, particularly in labour intensive companies. That's why we haven't decided on such interventions, and I don't think we will. However, this issue remains open and I think we owe it together to seek some optimal, balanced solutions in this country so that we can continue with the relatively dynamic development of our economy, to sustain international competition and to maintain at the same time a social system, including a pension system that is good and which is in line with our real options. Because we don't have any more, of course, from here. If there are any options, then I will be the first to defend the solutions that will benefit pensioners with the lowest pensions. So far, we have been looking and will continue to look for and propose solutions that will represent an appropriate tax burden for the lowest categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Would Mr. Petty Officer like to ask a supplementary question? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much. An additional question for the Prime Minister. When I mentioned the surplus data, these statements follow each other in a very short time. One month ago, we were talking about surpluses, deficits, and then surpluses. There is also a loose definition of how to coordinate this year. Indeed, it will be coordinated under some discretionary right of the social partners. And it's actually very, very exciting - to decide on such an important segment of pensioners, which is 450,000, what number up or down, to decide so easily. This is the question that this system that we now have for pensioners is unclear, they do not know what will happen to them. And those who create the system also find that the matter is unclear. A similar decision-making system at the level of the government had it in Croatia and had been eliminated, interrupted because it was uncertain, unfair and had a bad legal basis. That's what I wanted to discuss. So, now this follows: if there's any surplus, whether we go back to the law and maybe raise our pensions, maybe the lowest you've mentioned, or we'll cut our contributions - it's a bonded container system.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny. Would you like to further answer the question, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u61	I think I've presented the essence of the problem. However, there will be an opportunity for a more detailed discussion, of course also on pension insurance, on the occasion of the budgetary debate, when we present the budget and when the National Assembly will also discuss the pension balance or plan for 2001. However, I repeat that the solution, in fact, is not in this direction to have too low pensions in this country - too low, of course, from the point of view of each individual, but it is entirely one of the biggest problems that this country has in the future, the high ageing of the population, the high burden of pension balances, pension insurance. Given our gross social product, we have an average burden, and we need to be aware of that. Of course, we will be looking for the common most balanced and socially just solutions, but in a global way, this problem remains entirely. If we were not aware of it and were to lose sight of it, of course our country could be in very serious public financial problems in the coming years. What I repeat is what the government is predicting, and what the government is currently preparing, including in the framework of the 2001 budget acts, is the minimum of measures that will ensure a fiscal balance without at the same time presenting some kind of shock therapy or some restriction, so that we can continue with economic growth around the current level, somewhere between 4% and 5% of the annual social product. As long as we can maintain such developmental performances, we will, of course, be able to solve the pension fund problem more easily. Our warning on wage policy in the negotiations with the unions goes in this direction to look for those yet extremely balanced solutions, so that, if I say so, the whole vessel does not fail in order to avoid excessive burdens, which would then jeopardise the balanced development of Slovenia in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, also for participating in this agenda item. The next question will be asked by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a colleague of Ferry Horvat, and then, in turn, the next four. Please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u63	Procedurally, a proposal. In accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the debate be held in response to the reply of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u64	Is that what you're proposing on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u65	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u66	You have 15 minutes as proponents available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of New Slovenia have also joined with responsibility these amendments to the law on pension and disability insurance. We are aware of the problems in the pension register, the relationship in pensions, but our proposal was slightly different, more coordinated, and in particular we have tried to adopt this law on the basis of consensus. This is so important that we can achieve this. That's the first one. Our second proposal in terms of resolving pension problems, i.e. pensions, was that it did not approach all pensions equally, so as not to treat them equally, hit those with lower pensions and those with higher pensions. Our proposal was also to improve the pension system to increase the inflows and thus stabilise revenues and thus ensure the sustainability of pensions and the reliability of pension payments for our craftsmen. Next thing we know. The pension coordination system is not good if we go down in a way of discriminating between the social partners. This must be the basis for coordination, is the law and then, of course, movements, statistical indicators, measurements. On this basis, an independent and sustainable, reliable source of revenue can be provided. If it is in the hands of a government or a group, it is subject to political agreement. Let me mention how the debate on the coordination of pensions in Germany is ongoing. They have similar problems there. This is due to ageing, declining births and, of course, smaller payments. There they talk very carefully about percentages, not whole percentages, of dozens of percent. We're talking about three, six, and I don't know what percentages. Do you know what it means to make a reconciliation to make real pensions fall, which is very likely for this year, say, four or five percent, if this is cumulative over ten years? Can you imagine what a fall that is especially for those layers that are on minimum pensions? We know that most people, the median income is about 65,000 tolars. The next proposed in the coordination system is also privileged pensions. We don't generally discuss this problem. If this is the basis, then it should be the payment for the privileged pensions in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, what is linked to working hours and payments should be linked to the pension register. The next thing I'd like to stress is the tax on the payroll. The government, therefore, yours, Mr Drnovšek, but in the previous term, has introduced an amendment which means that contributions are being reduced, but a tax on the payment sheet is being introduced. In fact, this resulted in the withdrawal of the original revenues, which would have been used in the pension register to go into the budget. This establishes a binding, vague, non-sustainable, between the budget and the pension fund, which is intended to function as a sound insurance system. Next, what we have challenged, is a system of comparisons of how comparisons are made, which are the basis for raising or coordinating pensions. Comparison of the period per month is of course not the right criteria, not the right instrument. From the point of view of efficiency, the period shall always be measured for a period of time. These are the comments we wanted them to make on the amendments, but this has not happened. It was working with the raccoon. Maybe that's why we're gonna have to fix it. However, once again, I stress that the pensioners do not know what their pensions will be, nor do they imagine what they will be. However, there is something clear: January harmonisation of 12 and 13%, which is also confirmed by the pension and disability insurance institutions, so there will be no harmonisation. With regard to surpluses - what is the basic question, moreover - I am afraid that the surpluses that might have arisen in the pension register will not be used as we introduced for the petrol toll. There's a fear of what this is going to be about. We Members of New Slovenia believe that it must go for what they have been picked up for.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, or someone else, of course, from ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u69	A few words, and then I will ask Minister Dimovski to say a few more words as Minister in charge of this area. The essence of the answer is already in my previous two discussions. What stems from this debate is the issue of wage tax, which was indeed proposed years ago by the government and confirmed by the National Assembly as some compensation for reducing the contribution to wages. At that time we decided to go to 38% of the contribution on wages, and we made differentiation through this tax on wages; in short, the lowest wages are not taxed and they are higher. This comes into the budget, at least in previous years it was about 1% of the social product of money, which is still four times less than it is from the budget to the pension fund. Thus, it is completely pointless and it is not appropriate to talk about the fact that there would be real deficits in the entire pension insurance and balance sheet. There is no coming, there is a substantial deficit financed from the state budget. That is why, of course, the country also has significant difficulties in ensuring the coherence, stability and balance of this budget. However, we are doing so in all the years and the corrections we have proposed, both in salary and pension, so for this year they are minimal and will give us the opportunity to continue with the policy of harmonised public finances and at the same time with a relatively high rate of economic growth, because we are constantly looking for this optimal balance between these two indicators. As far as this contribution to wages or wage taxes is concerned, of course, our intention is that it is a temporary measure. When the public financial or budgetary option for us to eliminate it shows up, we will do so. However, I propose that more should be said about this subject, Mr Dimovski. I'd just like to appeal once again that this issue is extremely difficult. Our policy thus far guarantees and guarantees pensions in the future in order to sustain this system. Any irresponsible and excessive increase today could lead to a collapse of this system in the future. That would be irresponsible. Thus, all our efforts so far have gone in this direction to ensure a long-term, sustainable system of public finances, as well as pension financing as part of an economic model, which is based on a sufficiently high level of economic growth, so that we can ensure a relatively high level of different social and individual needs in this country. This is also more focused on our efforts in this year's budget. Please, Mr. Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you, Prime Minister. Minister Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u71	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to explain something more on the basis of the question put by Mr Drobnic, on the side of what the Prime Minister has already said. As regards the adoption of amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly in December and whose amendments were proposed and adopted, the main intention, as we said at that time, was, in particular, valorisation, which limits the large fluctuations which were in the 150th Article to compare them every month and was a change in this direction to compare the averages in some way. Secondly, what this amendment has brought about is, above all, the provision of what is said in sociological science as the so-called intergenerational contract, which in this particular case meant the connection between pensions and salaries. This is based on this basic principle, which I have said, and at the same time it has been possible to actually valorise pensions every beginning of the year while being added [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u72	Minister Dimovski, can I speak a little louder?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u73	a fuse triggered in September if the pension/pay relationship is moving in favour of wages, so that this fuse is automatically triggered in September. [[...]] This amendment of the law has also enabled the so-called transitional period of 2001 and the system in a way that we believe does not introduce discretion is fully alive after 2002. The third thing I would like to say is the ratio between the highest and lowest pension, as has been evident from the question of Member Drobnič, this ratio is 1:4 already in the pension and disability insurance law, so that the highest pensions according to our data do not increase since last February, because this ratio is actually being hunted 1:4, which in some way is contained in the pension and disability insurance law. The third or fourth question asked here is the question of the so-called surplus. This may be an awkward formulation, because it is a surplus, as the Prime Minister has already said, of course, the ability to speak only on the basis of high transfers, which, of course, the state budget is provided by the pension fund. At a meeting of the National Assembly, when there was a question of what the possible savings from different or new mode of coordination were, I said that, with certain assumptions at that time available, especially at the time of price movements and in the months of November and December, we expect some 20 billion so-called savings. Now it is found to be about 22 billion or 23 billion, as the president or v.d. Director of ZPIZ. Fifth, which I would also like to say in this direction, is, and relates to the Prime Minister's reply, that the pension reform which began to take effect in 1999 is only possible for a longer period of time. In this longer period of time, in our view, and we have already mentioned this at the meeting of the National Assembly briefly, certain upgrades will be needed. In this respect, we have been reminded by the National Assembly of some inconsistencies in the law on pensions and disability insurance, such as. insurance of farmers, elderly farmers, craftsmen, etc. The National Assembly has been entrusted with the task of preparing, by the end of March or by March, a review of the implementation of the law on pension and disability insurance, which, of course, we are also preparing, and which will in some way propose all restrictions or inconsistencies in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Is there anything else the government would like to add? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to the parliamentary groups. My colleague, Lois Peterle, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. See, as has already been said, Nova Slovenija was against such a reform, but it was not against a fairer reform. Justice has already been warned today. The Prime Minister also said that if an opportunity were to be made, he would also be committed to helping those with the lowest pensions. I'd like to say that the first chance was missed. We have pointed out this broad basis for people who have small pensions, but the great coalition did not want to hear about it in the Christmas mood when it adopted this law. He now announces that if options were to be made, we find that hard to believe. However, we warn you that now that you are speaking, one minister on surpluses, another minister on savings, and pensioners on profit on account of pensions, is once again an opportunity, as we have suggested, that if this savings, surplus or profits happen to you, you share this fairly with those who live in this country, because they have low pensions. Mr. Prime Minister, he said the government is not for shock. Look, I remember how difficult it was for us to get a little insight into numbers, because the coalition didn't want to say what was actually going to happen after this Christmas atmosphere. Now it is known, even on the line of PIZ itself, that this matter, which we, as we understand pensioners, but we call a shock, means 12% less. If it went according to the old law, it would be 12% more, but it doesn't just mean January, ladies and gentlemen, it's 12 times 12. Every month, 12 percent will be missing where we can build things forward. As I understand pensioners, believe me, I meet someone among the voters because pensioners are not DeSUS reserves, I would like to make that clear, but they are in all the parties, so these people experience it as a shock and know exactly what 12 or 13% means less. Something more is likely to happen later, because the government has taken it, I think this is the only case in the world that the government is setting up, not the law, the government is setting expectations, the expected movements. When the electoral year, as I once announced, will express great expectations, and pensions will jump. This savings, surplus or profit happened to you because you are in this holiday rush where people were a little less careful and it went so much without public debates, let alone protests, through, so you can only take this matter with the pensioners, nowhere else. Tell me, where will this surplus or profit come from? You've gone too far, you've gone too far, you've taken people away, and we're asking you, with reason and concern, to say now that if this thing really happens to you, as the Minister has predicted, you will divide it up to those who have the least. That's our whole point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u77	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers, honourable fellow Members! On behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, I will explain our position on this issue. The Prime Minister rightly notes that this is an extremely important issue. First of all, on one side of the life of a certain class of people, pensioners, not just lives, including the question of the survival of some with the lowest pensions. Many are not to blame. Of course, it is also a very important issue of public finances and of course of consolidation of public finances. When amending the law on pension and disability insurance, we have warned that the proposal for a law does not contain clear provisions on the financial implications. At that time, we have already found that this needs to be clearly defined. If we go into the financial field of this law without a clear picture, we can do the left hand service. It was only later that Minister Dimovski explained, after a few hours of discussion, some estimates of possible savings. It was only today that he served months after the adoption of the law with specific figures based on calculations by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. We believe in the Social Democratic Party because it is such an important issue that it is not permissible to change the law without clear consequences, in particular without clear consequences for those with the lowest, that is to say for the socially weaker layers. We assess and stress once again, as I have also pointed out in amending the law, that in this case it is only in terms of consolidating public finances and pension funds without a clear analysis of the consequences for people and pensioners. That is true, today the conflicting statements of ministers, on the one hand the Minister of Labour, on the other hand the Minister of Finance, one spoke of the deficit, the other about the surplus. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we believe that, in the future, when we go to such a law as the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which tanges hundreds of thousands of Slovenians, it is necessary to take a comprehensive approach, with public debate and with social consensus, to change, of course with a clear picture of what this means for the pockets of pensioners, in particular those with the lowest pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. In order to avoid misunderstandings, let me explain that, in accordance with Article 29, the same parliamentary group may request the right referred to in Article 29 at any other meeting. In this respect, the SDS and N Group of Members. So you're in the next session and you don't have that right. We are moving on to continue to ask Members of Parliament and Members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to say which five will have the right in a row: Mr Ferri Horvat, followed by Jože Ašič, Mrs Maria Pozsonec, Mr Franci Rokavec and Mr Anton Delak. Ferry Horvath has the first word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Bohinc. What measures has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already taken and what measures does it intend to take and when does it intend to address the problem of migrants more effectively? In this regard, I also ask whether funds will be provided for this purpose in the budget for this year and what amount of resources the Government expects from the European Union for this purpose. In particular, the problem of migrants has been highlighted in recent times by a number of media outlets, drawing attention to this by government representatives, in particular the home directory, representatives of local communities, NGOs and others. Last week, we, the MPs, were informed by the management of this administration at the police administration's office in Murska Sobota about the increasingly acute problems related to illegal migrants. To illustrate the problem, which is particularly acute in this part, as well as in other areas of Slovenia along the border, the following data and problems are noted. The number of illegal crossings mainly across the border with Hungary and Croatia, in the part covered by the police administration in Murska Sobota, increased from 834 cases in 2000 to 8.196 or almost ten times; in just one year, from 1999 to 2000, 67%. The rapidly increasing phenomenon of illegal migrants means an increasing labour and material burden on the Murska Sobota police administration and, in recent years, there has been an inadequate increase in the number of employees who have remained almost at the same level since 1996 and no additional resources have been provided, which is increasingly threatening the normal work of the police administration in other areas. The number of workers increased from 1996 to 2000 by barely 6.6% of the higher-a-vis data I mentioned for the number of cases of illegal crossings. The cost of migrants increased by 150 % in just one year from 1999 to 2000. The number of kilometres transported in relation to migrants increased by more than five times between 1996 and 2000 with an already long fleet not sufficient for the effective running work of the police. It would therefore be necessary to provide for a more appropriate way of ensuring conditions, including funding, depending, of course, on the evolution of the volume of illegal migration. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u81	Ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament and Members, Mr Ferri Horvat, President, Vice-President. It is true - and the government's assessment is such - that they represent migration, whose outbreak is particularly significant in 2000 and unfortunately continues in 2001, a serious internal security problem, as well as a serious humanitarian problem. As a result, the government had addressed this problem before it had addressed the information of the Ministry of the Interior and had also taken some short-term and some long-term measures. Let me add to the data we have heard about the Murska Sobota police administration, some state information on what is known to the general public: in 2001 we recorded a 91% increase in the number of migrants who illegally crossed Slovenia's southern and eastern borders, and the number is close to 36,000. Of this, 27 thousand had to be spent at least one day in one of the settings homes. A particular problem is the beginning of the new asylum legislation last year, which has resulted in a total of 13,000 or a good third of all illegally crossing our borders applying for asylum. Let me also say that Slovenia is treated primarily as a transit country and that the vast majority of asylum seekers are not waiting for the start of the procedure, but are heading west by treating under 200 asylum seekers in procedures. And so far, all 11 asylums have been granted. This is some basic data on the scale of this problem, which certainly causes additional involvement of the police and other services in the country and also causes additional, related costs. The measures taken by the Slovenian Government before the recent ones, which we consider to be short-term measures, are as follows. 1. We have taken a decision to direct the police towards increased, enhanced direct control of the state border. It is 670 kilometers from the border with Croatia, which is the most under attack. This direct surveillance, of course, means additional engagement of police forces and techniques, including in cooperation with other ministries, which will ensure that we directly hold back the influx of these people and also return them directly to the border line itself. Let me say that the Slovenian police, with their current capabilities, are not in a position to fully monitor the border in a way that prevents the direct entry of groups in order to ensure this through the implementation of Schengen standards at this border, which is our important European obligation. And let me say that Europe is looking at this obligation with full attention and that this will be one of the indicators of our credibility to meet the criteria for full membership. In short, it is not only an internal political problem but also an important foreign policy implications. Well, the second direct measure, at the same time the first, which creates additional employment and associated additional financial obligations. By the way, let me answer Mr Jelinčič's question about police sentiments. Last year, this measure was already adopted and has produced positive effects, and it has also resulted in 35,000 overtime for which the government has provided payment before the recent conclusions I quote. As of February 1st, all the overtime caused last year by the activation of special police forces to intervene in November and December, which - I must say - have significantly reduced the monthly averages, as well as the daily averages of foreign entrances into Slovenia. However, another such measure as targeting the police is increased efficiency and increased police efforts against such crime. In Slovenia, this type of crime is growing, especially what we refer to as "trafficking in people" or "organised crime". We have taken steps to increase the willingness of the police to step up to this criminal phenomenon that is growing in Slovenia. These are two short-term direct solutions that will give - these two measures will have some effects - but we need to be realistic in assessing that the migratory pressure is unfortunately the global phenomenon of the movement of people from the south and the east towards the west, which is being tried to control the police of many European countries, in cooperation and so forth. However, that this problem is not only manageable by border management, but has a broader dimension, so the government has also decided to take some long-term measures, which are mainly related to our diplomatic activity and to the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior and Police with neighbouring countries, particularly the countries of South-Eastern Europe, particularly the Balkans - I am thinking of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslavia, Croatia - and cooperation with the so-called countries of origin, these are the countries from which most of these disasters come. Iran is far ahead of this with almost 14,000 refugees in last year, and then countries such as Bangladesh, Moldova, Romania, Iraq, Turkey and so on. Here is a very important diplomatic activity related to the harmonisation of visa policy, police cooperation and, above all, a single European migration and asylum policy, which was one of the subjects of the talks in the days when we discussed this in Brussels. The European Union has cooled down on this phenomenon and will seek to gather strength and consensus on common policy elements in this area in the coming months. In this context, the Schengen project is extremely important. Let me say that the European Union is prepared, following the arrangements so far, to train our border according to the Schengen criteria, to invest Phar's 15 million euros in funds, which are substantial, and that means that are far from sufficient for the investments that are ahead of us on this issue. Let me also say that the other part of the activity is running in the area of housing, which is a huge problem, which we have obviously not dealt with sufficiently in the past, and not adequately enough. Let me say this when I talk about the means, because the question is an explicit criterion for this part, that we are agreed with the European Union, that an asylum home of 300 million dollars will be co-financed from Phar's resources, whose construction is expected to be completed this year, but that we have made an additional 100 million in the last days for an investment, whatever it may be, into a foreign exile centre as it is called. In the Ministry of the Interior, we are working hard, of course in consensus or at least in agreement with the local authorities in some areas of Slovenia, to obtain a location for the final resolution of this issue. Until this is achieved, or this capacity will be built to the extent that we plan, there will be problems that can erupt on a day as sad as the building in Celovška. I would just say that let us try to influence the Slovenian public, that this problem is also of a humanitarian nature, that these people who break into groups with us are not criminals, but are in the hands of criminal associations, which they exploit for their profitable, yet seriously illegal purposes, and that this is actually a major humanitarian problem that Slovenia must address with patience and with human relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ferry, are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. Mr Jože Ašič, the next question should be asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u83	Dear members and members of the government, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word. I would like to ask Mr Jakob President, Minister of Transport. According to some information, the Ministry of Transport and Communications in the period immediately prior to the elections, until the appointment of a new government in this mandate, has signed letters with some Slovenian municipalities' mayors on the intention to invest in public roads. These letters of intent are supposed to be, according to information, because I don't have data between 30 and 50; maybe it's too much, but that's what they say. The value of these signed letters is quite high and should relate only to measures on state roads for 2001. I have put this question to you, Mr Minister, even at the first hearing before the appointment of the government, and you have promised that we will have an answer to this question, how many of these letters are in fact, what are the values and what are the legal foundations of this kind of signing with the municipalities. In fact, the legal basis, which I alone know and which is contained in the Roads Act, provides for the possibility of signing relevant documents between municipalities or local communities and the State in relation to state roads, is the so-called co-financing agreements which are signed when a State reconstructs or regulates a state road in a settlement area and where the local community also regulates its local infrastructure, such as sidewalks, public lighting, sewerage and the like. About the letters of intent for something that the country is supposed to be doing somewhere, but I have not heard so far, so I would ask you to answer this question: is this information really accurate, or are such letters of intent signed, or are there legal grounds for these letters in practice to be able to obtain their operationalization in this year's state budget and, of course, what the value of such previous promises is, if I may say so. And the second issue, which is quite close to the budget for this year, relates to the implementation of the budget of the State of Slovenia for the area of state roads for 2000, according to which, as I am informed, of course, some budget and planning items have been implemented 100 percent or more, and some have not even started. Well, in the constituency where I was elected, I know a lot of these cases. My question is this: How and in what way will the Ministry respond to those tasks from last year's budget that are necessary and would suggest that they be included in this year's budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob President, Minister for Transport and Communications, please answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u85	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Mr Auschwitz asked two questions. With regard to the first question, I must say that, of course, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads is also preparing long-term individual projects and that is why some letters of intent and co-financing agreements have also been signed in those cases where the procedure is already so far away that it is possible to sign these co-financing agreements, as documentation is already at this stage. All of these documents are covered by or also by a clause which states that this investment can be classified or realised when it is also part of the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are preparing this table, and when it is finished, we will also submit it to the State Assembly or to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. As regards the second question, regarding the implementation of the 2000 budget. I must say that, under the 2000 budget implementation law, it was also possible to sign such one-year or two-year contracts, which exceeded the 2000 budget lines of a total of 75% in the global investment under the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. Therefore, I do not have the accurate data at present, which investments have not started under the 2000 budget, but I know that many of these items are currently being implemented or contracts concluded and most of these contracts will, of course, be implemented in 2001. This, of course, will also be evident from the 2001 budget, which is still in the preparatory phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Auschwitz is satisfied with the answer. That's why I give the floor to Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Members of Parliament and fellow Members and journalists present. I would like to ask the Minister of Transport the first question. How is it possible that the money that was intended for the construction of the railway from Puconec to Hodoš disappeared somewhere? The Ministry of Transport paid the railway administration, they paid the SCT, it paid Gradis and received the payment from Asphalt Ptuj, and the last address in this row was the company Asphalt Murska Sobota, which had already gone bankrupt. Finally, the money did not reach subcontractors who had been working on the track since May 1999. In this way these small entrepreneurs and their families have literally been destroyed. I ask: Was so many intermediaries really needed, and is this method of payment from a national economic point of view justified? How much did all the participants in this chain make in this way? I would also like to know whether the Government intends to submit to the National Assembly a new proposal for a law authorising the lease of a new loan for this purpose. And in general: How will subcontractors get their money? Another question I am referring to the government: How will it listen to the legitimate demands of teachers who are not properly rewarded for their work? However, the third question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I wonder if they can assure us that the meat on our plates is impeccable. What measures have they taken to ensure that we do not have mad cow disease? Do they agree with me that there is now a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to promote the development of their own livestock sector and in what way will they take advantage of this opportunity to develop livestock farming in Slovenia? And also, do they keep rumors that they burned three tons of bone meal in the Lek plant in Lendava? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria. If we go in line, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Minister of Transport, would like to ask the first question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec, Madam Ambassador. In the first question I would like to answer, you have asked several questions. At first - I think the first three - if you allow me, we will answer in writing, because they are broader, they require broader preparation; so the problem is of course broader, systemic. But I want to answer the question of what is paid to subcontractors; what is, of course, the most attractive. So, the investor of the Puconci-Hodoz track is the Slovenian Railways, which signed the implementation contract with the three main contractors in 1999. On 13 December, the investors were informed by subcontractors, in particular entrepreneurs with a construction mechanism, that they had not received their works under the contract.In the following days, a couple of meetings were held and an agreement was concluded between them and the main contractor on 18 December. Therefore, following this agreement, the main contractor should pay these subcontractors directly by 15 January, until the end of January the second part of I think that by the end of April the third part. That was the agreement between the two parties. So we have information that the main contractor of this first tranche has not yet announced. We have pointed out this to the investor, namely the Slovenian Railways, that, within its scope of action - and of course, it has the possibility to point out the last remaining situations that are still open. However, within the framework of its supervisory function, the Ministry will also take appropriate action. In the coming days, I hope we can also inform you in writing of the results of this. However, I will take care of the answers to the remaining questions in writing within the time limit set for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u90	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The next question was addressed to the government by Mrs Possonec. Would Dr. Lucia Chok, Minister of Education, Science and Sports answer him? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Member of the Commission, I hope that I will partly answer you, but perhaps not, in part, it will not be possible, because I think that the intensity of the agreement on the coordination of the salaries of workers in education and education, therefore teachers, is quite well-known from the news and so on; you know that these things are happening intensively now in recent times. The new government was involved in this issue on 18 December, when we started, in fact opened negotiations with the unions of education, education and science. From then until today, we have reached the fifth or sixth round of negotiations. We have not yet completed the sixth, as you know, because in fact the problem has opened up precisely because of the mismatch between wages between the various departments and, of course, the new legislation that is being prepared, is said to be legislation on public servants and wage legislation, which - as promised - I hope that we will also be able to deliver on this promise - will be ready within three months at the latest. In addition to the fact that we handed out our first offer to the unions of education, education and science, with which they were not satisfied, we have also opened up the issue of internal relations between individual jobs within the department. But above all, we've got problems outside the department. You know that some of the other professions, some of the other departments, have already overtaken the cycle of negotiations now being reached by the unions. All negotiations are said to have been included in the 2001 budget. Actually, it's a last resort, the last annex to a contract where things are kind of stalling. In the meantime, an interdisciplinary negotiating group led by Dr Dimovski was set up to solve this particular problem, in order to establish certain relationships between doctors, judges and teachers, but not immediately; this relationship, I think, will be set within one to two years, especially after the adoption of the new legislation. As far as the last negotiations are concerned, I can assure you that next week we will try to close these negotiations - we also have the power of the government to conclude them - and that we will at least leave teachers in an equivalent position to continue approaching the other sector. However, if you want more on the pace itself, you could be answered in a short time, but above all we want to see at least an indicative closure of the budgetary negotiations, because both are tied. Just tonight, we will still be negotiating budgetaryly in the first round with the Ministry of Finance, and it is likely that some success will be achieved here, and, of course, it will be possible, if it is not enough from the news, for written information to reach the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Possonchev, are you satisfied? Thank you very much. The third question was addressed to the Mag. Franca Booth, representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, this is a very topical topic that has been and is, and I hope that there will not be so much talk in the future. It is a question of the emergence of a BSE disease that actually shakes the whole of Europe and is the topic number one, which is why guilty or innocent ministers resign and which is much debated. By the way, last week we were in Germany for talks that were very much fighting around this topic. Germany, for example. the consumption of beef fell to less than 10% of regular consumption, which is estimated to be a simple national and even broader disaster. What we have done in Slovenia is to prevent or do everything to do what can be done so that the disease will not be or if it has already appeared to be controlled and controlled. I hope to say that we have done everything that can be done so far, in accordance with the level of knowledge and behaviour that experts, veterinarians, medics, agronomists and everyone else can offer. For the first time, it is important to say that we generally follow - and rigorously - the measures taken by the European Union as well. This means: we have banned the use of certain hazardous organs in human nutrition from all animals, that is, compulsory removal and disposal, of course, together with other wastes until the case of disease would not have arisen. Another time. General prohibition of the use of meat-and-bone meal for all animals used in human consumption, not only for bovine animals which have been banned since 1996, but also for pigs, poultry, fish, rabbits. Third time. The general prohibition of imports from countries where BSE disease has occurred is, of course, here to mention that this also causes other problems, which are simply not resolved in a given situation. It is a good example: a significant number of farmers are e.g. In Germany, they have already bought or paid for tribal animals and, of course, they cannot import them, which is totally understandable that they cannot because this is directly contrary to the prohibition and would constitute this risky act. Next. We have introduced mandatory testing of all animals over thirty months of age since 1 January of this year, with classical tests carried out so far. However, since an investment in equipment was made - equipped with two lines - a new procedure will begin tomorrow, first of all a few days experimentally, with February 1st in full, which means the introduction of a rapid test procedure that gives its result in twenty-four hours. At this point, of course, we hope that all the results will always be negative. Although, of course, I stress that this is a preventive issue with the aim of preventive consumer protection, at least at a level as high as that of the European Union countries. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u94	Please finish. As a rule, the answer is ten minutes. But you can explain it peacefully to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u95	I'll try to shorten it. In short, preventive consumer protection is the first rule. Next. We are introducing intensive, accelerated - even faster than in the European Union - mandatory traceability of animals and meat. This means, as from 1 January of this year, all animals must be marked and recorded immediately after birth. However, those who have not yet been marked and are older must be counted, recorded and kept in the so-called register of animals by the end of June of this year. For those animals that will not be in the register, the breed will simply be closed. The responsibility lies with the breeders, while the rest are technical matters, which are very important. Next. It is very important that, of course, after a transitional period of 1.7, there should also be a fully established similar system in slaughterhouses. So that all those who are buyers have the opportunity and right to demand to identify and see, not only which country of origin is meat, but also, from which ear numbers from which the breeder is meat, and thus to know how the animal was produced. However, as the new German Federal Minister has said, this problem can be regarded as a new beginning of a more environmentally friendly way of farming, an extension that will not be difficult in Slovenia because there has never been an excessive intensity. In short, we also want to transform our agricultural policy to a much greater extent even in environmentally friendly, ecologically informed ways and forms of farming. I would also mention that we have prepared a so-called crisis programme to be implemented as soon as the disease could occur - which we hope will not - and very importantly, by 1.3. the Ministry should also further reorganise and transform an important part of the ministry into a so-called programme or sector for safe food and consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u96	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Are you satisfied, Mrs. Possonchev, with the answer? Would you like a refill? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u97	About whether you burned this flour in Lendava or not. In Lendava.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u98	As far as Lendava is concerned, I could not answer this moment. At least I don't think the Ministry of Agriculture has ordered that. We will draw up a written proposal immediately, and my colleague and I have already asked ourselves a few questions if there is any information; but the fact is that this facility has a regular permit to be able to function as an incinerator. So here I think that if we wanted to, we could do it without any prior consent. But we'll give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u99	It's okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next one raises a question, Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Honourable ministers, ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I am asking the Ministry of Health, in particular in terms of the issue of providing adequate health care conditions, including for persons receiving social benefits. Indeed, in practice, it is not until the second examination of the specialist’s doctor that persons receiving money or social allowance receive reimbursement of travel expenses. In fact, from practice, I know quite a few cases that persons who receive social assistance or social assistance cannot afford the right living conditions for survival, except for the payment of travel costs in the first specialist review. Indeed, the problem is that they receive reimbursements of travel expenses only for another specialist review. I therefore ask the Ministry of Health: What measures will it take to ensure that those persons who are at the minimum of living also have equal health care? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Minister Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u102	Dear Franci Rokavec, I think I can cheer you up with my answer. For the first review of the existing compulsory health insurance system, it provides for reimbursement of travel costs, but of course the method of payment may, I am just guessing, indicates that the individual received only on the second visit. In fact, payment shall be made when the appropriate form of recognition of travel costs is confirmed by the doctor who examined the patient, the one to whom he was directed. This means, of course, in practice, that the patient receives payment only after the visit of this doctor, but for the first examination. If this does not happen, the persons you represent with this question must simply intervene in the branch office that deals with these matters. Allow me one more thing. You're also implicitly wondering what if it's really a socially disadvantaged person who needs to be given the opportunity to pay in advance. We have received an explanation from the Health Insurance Office that in this case - but this is an exception - such a person can turn to the Regional Health Insurance Office and after providing some evidence or perhaps the conversation will already receive an advance on travel costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Another question, please, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. In fact, Mr Minister, you have cheered me up with this answer, although I must find out from the examples in practice that this is not the case. And I would appeal in some way that, in these cases, including in cooperation with the Health Insurance Office, action is in fact the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My colleague Delak has a question for the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Greetings to all present! I am asking the Minister of the Interior a question. On 1 January 1995, the local community of Vinska Gora from the then town of Žalec was associated with the municipality of Velenje. While Vinska Gora became part of the municipality of Velenje with the legal act of the National Assembly, it was not included at the same time in the administrative unit Velenje. This is how citizens resolve certain matters in the municipality of Velenje and part of their obligations and rights within the administrative unit of Žalec. This situation causes dissatisfaction among the citizens of Vinske Gore, and in this regard also a lot of the additional costs they have when they wish to realize their administrative affairs. I ask the Ministry when it intends to resolve the matter, or what are the obstacles that prevent Vinska Gora from becoming part of Velenje's administrative unit in administrative and organisational terms. Today I have heard from my fellow Members that there are similar problems in some other Slovenian municipalities when parts of the municipality belong to different administrative units. I ask for a written answer and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u107	Minister Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u108	I find it difficult to comment because the proposal in this regard has not been received so far by the Ministry of the Interior. I suggest that the citizens of Vinske Gore turn to us and we initiate appropriate procedures after we examine the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u109	In addition, there was a request for a written reply. Please, Comrade Delak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u110	Mr. Minister, I have addressed you, so I ask that the answer be sent to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following six colleagues and colleagues will be given the floor in the following order: colleague Kontič, Pece, Terčon, Dr Brace, Bozič, Čeligoj and Sok. First, my friend Bojan Kontic. Please, Comrade Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The first question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance. I ask whether the Government or the Ministry is considering amending the first paragraph of Article 45 of the Value Added Tax Act, which, in particular, criminalises the unequal position of business operators on the market for the activity of personal services. This Article of the Act provides as a threshold for the registration of taxable persons for value added tax of 5 million tolars, one of the largest limit amounts compared to European countries. Due to a highly defined threshold for taxation, there has been marketed in the provision of services to final consumers to grave selection between taxable entities and non-taxable entities. I am also addressing another question to the Ministry of Economy at this time, but I fear that today there will be no oral answer, but that there will be a written answer already from the Ministry of Environment and Space, because energy or energy is moving. I'm interested in a national energy program. Several versions of this national programme have already been prepared. I wonder when he'll be in line to be mature for the parliamentary procedure? This is the only way to plan the production of electricity for a longer period, which is the basic condition for the success of energy companies in the Republic of Slovenia. I am also interested in when the energy balance will be adopted, as based on this energy balance for this year energy companies will also be able to plan production this year. Thank you for the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. Government representatives, competent ministers, who wants a word? Please, Mr. Koncan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u114	Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President, Member of Parliament. So your question - this problem you mentioned is known to the Ministry of Finance or, if I say so, it was already known in the tax profession when the value added tax was introduced. Of course, the issue of this threshold may in fact raise such problems as you have cited for the area of personal services. So, how are we going to solve it? We are also aware of this initiative of the association, which has been addressed to the Constitutional Court, but the options are, because we know that this year we will carry out the first revision of the value added tax law, which provides us with at least two options. The first is to use a reduced rate - now 8% - for the area of so-called personal services and thus alleviate this problem a little bit, not completely. Another option is to set a lower threshold for personal services, not 5 million but less. You have rightly indicated that an estimated million tolars, slightly higher, are recommended the minimum rate or mandatory minimum rate, but it is only true that no country has this lowest rate. But whatever! Slovenia is therefore somehow on the average of European countries in this respect, so we will examine and propose an appropriate solution when we propose these solutions by means of a new value added tax law. Now, how to mitigate the problem and the consequences you've stated at this point. In fact, this is a problem for these companies, which, in fact, also register all the traffic they carry out. Therefore, they pay not only value added tax, but also the corporate profit tax and, on the other hand, some individuals who, I would say, may actually exceed the threshold and not register any turnover or are not taxable. So since last year, an interdepartmental commission has been set up to coordinate work on black ki - all inspections, from the market and others, from the Ministry of Finance, etc. - essentially coordinates this activity in order to prevent this work on the market in black. Of course, I can also provide, as the competent Secretary of State for Taxation and Customs in the Ministry of Finance, that I will specifically point out the problem to the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to further carry out certain activities in order to essentially ensure that those who violate the basic principle of marketing with us, namely, loyal competition, because by working in black: they do not account for value added tax and so on, in essence create conditions for unfair and therefore unfair competition. So, in this way, we're going to try to mitigate these things at least, although, of course, we can't eliminate them at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Any other government representatives? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u116	On behalf of the Ministry of the Economy, I can only assure you at this moment that we are aware of the importance of the national energy programme and the development documents in the field of energy in general. However, we believe that it would not be appropriate at this point for the Ministry of the Economy to speed up activities or even lead to the conclusion of these activities, which are so important. With regard to the energy balance, we would like to provide you with an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u117	Minister Digger, please. If you can get up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you. Member of the Continuum. The energy balance was adopted today at a government meeting. So the users will get to know her tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Comrade Sasha Peca, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u120	Your Honors are here! The initiative and the question, based on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, on the chapter of public works, public works as an element of promoting employment in those municipalities which face higher levels of unemployment and where there are no short-term solutions for normal employment. In short, a public work that is welcome in each country in transition and in each country that adapts to new market or other conditions of management. That's clearly what Slovenia is. In the city of Maribor, where the unemployment rate is extremely high, according to various figures this figure is different, I suggest that it is in the field of public works - namely, in your area of content, in the field of your ministry - that the participation of the municipality of Maribor in the performance of public works be abolished. Of course, you will tell me or you will answer that the level of participation depends on the level of unemployment in each local community or region. That's partly true. In no way should such a bureaucratic response be held in an area where we know the budgets of local communities from which such funds are allocated or allocated. In the municipality of Maribor as the second largest Slovenian city that needs a job that has this tradition of work, the Ministry would be expected to come to the aid, just to abolish the share that the municipality has to give to employment. I hope that you will also take the initiative to the congregation, because I think that she has also contacted you in this area, responded positively and taken over this part of the burden and, on the other hand, contributed so much to the reduction of the unemployed in Maribor. Second issue - addressed to the Ministry of Culture. In the proposal for a national cultural programme, it would also be desirable, by my side, by the Slovenian National Party and by the Municipality of Maribor, that the Slovenian National Theatre also acquire the status of national importance or national status, in order to finally achieve that distribution in this country also in the field of culture, i.e. those activities that somehow preserve the spirit. And in the end. The question, namely - I think, for the Ministry of Finance or Economic Activities - is concerning the privatisation of banks. As a member of the National Assembly, I would like to be informed of the projected privatisation process, such as both banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Bank of Maribor. In particular: Will privatisation take place in a set? What impact this privatisation will have on economic competitiveness [[...]] [[the warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u121	We warned you a little too loud that you were running out of time. We're sorry. Please, my friend Peca, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u122	So all about the privatisation process that the National Assembly should be meeting with this year. [[...]] And of course, the most important question in this context: What is the estimated domestic absorption power at the time of privatisation? And what will be the percentage or percentage of allowed foreign entry into our banking system? And the other thing is, it's very similar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u123	You can't go on with the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u124	Then I'd ask for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. You will add a question if you are not satisfied with the answer. Government representatives - Minister Dimovski. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Peče, as you know, has been paying very great attention to public works over the past decade. The number of participation in public works is about 56,000 unemployed. As you know or have already announced in your government programme and programme, there will also be a great deal of attention in future public works, especially where regionally high levels of unemployment are. Let me briefly mention here some things that are likely to shed some light on this problem of public works. On the one hand, our focus over the next period is on certain target groups, which, of course, will also receive public works as part of an active employment policy. Let me mention, above all, those who are more difficult to employ, especially those who seek their work for the first time and those who are in lower qualifications than 45 and 50 years of age. Third of all, they're disabled. In this respect, we have also made a couple draw up this year's budget, and it is in the public works agenda that we have devoted a lot of attention to and are preparing some extensions of public works programmes. In this respect and in view of the fact that organisational public works are mainly carried out through executive organisations, this is an employment agency, we have approached the precise development of the implementation of all public works programmes where, as you know, there are different levels of co-financing of individual parts in the implementing structures of public works. We respond to your initiative by exploring the possibilities within a system that exists on non-cofinancing or reduction of co-financing of this work for public works, and after examining this work, of course we will report to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u127	Anybody else want some? Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u128	Dear Member, thank you for the question raised. You are probably aware that the system of financing public institutions in the field of culture has gone into some kind of technical difficulty last year or two years ago and that since last year, from 1 August onwards, the Ministry of Culture has been funding again all 39 institutions, including institutions in Maribor or other centres. I must say that this year's starting point for the Ministry of Culture, or in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, is that all institutions fall in this year's budget of the Ministry of Culture. It is said that somehow these institutions are under the tutelage of the Ministry of State. Of course, it is our roof law that speaks of the regulation of the founding acts and thus their situation. This is the task that we are discussing, and above all, it is a task that we will discuss with all the mayors or founders of these institutions. Today we are already accepting in the country in the field of culture all the funding obligations, and others, I will say, and we do not yet have duties. And when we agree with the founders, which is also our intention to have these state institutions covering and operating under the national programme, it is also a solution that we will propose with a roof law that is likely to come to the agenda of the National Assembly in April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My friend Peca probably wants to ask a further question. Don't you? Thank you very much. Comrade Tarchon, followed by Dr. Brace. Comrade Terchón is missing, so he has a word, Comrade Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the media, a statement by the Attorney General, Mrs Cerarjeva, that Mrs Barbara Brezigar had unjustifiably dismissed you in the Depal case. My question is, of course, addressed to the Justice Minister and it is somehow as follows: Is it in line with the prosecution's ethics that the Attorney General in the media criticises the Attorney General? And if that's in line with the prosecution's ethics, the question is, why didn't she do it in other cases, say, Hartman? [[It's that mountain heroin thing.]] , when the prosecutor has not proposed or ordered detention at the time of the sentence itself, when he has been threatened or a certain high or maximum penalty? I also ask you, or ask you, as the Justice Department: What are you going to do, given that the newspapers received the charge before the accused? Clearly, it is not only the unethical conduct of officials in prosecutions or prosecutors but also the unlawful conduct of competent prosecutors. What will the Attorney General do in this case, or what will you do in the Justice Department, according to your Minister, who declares that no one is untouchable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the prosecution's ethics itself, and the enforcement of these rules of ethics among prosecutors themselves, this is a matter of the prosecution's organisation and their system of protection of ethics. With regard to a specific case, and above all, you mentioned what the Ministry of Justice was supposed to do about the fact that the indictment was obtained earlier by the media than the accused themselves. As far as the elements of the crime are concerned, we believe that this is a matter for prosecutors to prosecute this crime. However, we will certainly examine all aspects, both in relation to possible ethical infringements and in relation to the possibility of illegal action in this context. In this regard, we will fully draw up a written position. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u134	I'm not happy with the answer. I expect there will be more concrete in the written position. In particular, I would like to remind you again of the Minister's words on touchability or inviolability. I also wonder, of course: Is the Attorney General, in this case, with regard to the Minister, etc., untouchable and also with prosecutors? So please answer my questions very carefully. For by not answering or answering the mist, you have the impression that the words spoken by the minister do not show faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u135	Mr. Starman, would you like an extra word? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u136	The inviolability of anyone with regard to criminal liability is certainly necessary. The Minister certainly insists on this and we all insist on a clear prosecution of crimes. However, it is a matter of jurisdiction and I have therefore stressed that the role of the Ministry of Justice in relation to ethical infringements is such that we will examine the whole matter. The prosecution of crimes itself, even when it comes to prosecutors, is a matter of justice, a judicial branch of power. In short, the judiciary in a broader sense - this means the police and the prosecution. Prosecutors are also solely responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences committed by prosecutors. So much for the legal distribution and the constitutional distribution of powers. On those previous issues, however, I assure you that we will examine fully the case and the procedure for possible infringements of the ethical rules of prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you government representatives for insisting. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I have only one question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: How is Slovenia prepared to maintain Slovenia after the entry into the European Union in the country and in those parts of neighbouring countries where Slovenians live? I come from the western part of our country alone. Our neighbour Italy in the West is rapidly preparing and surrounds us with railways, shipbuilding, synchronous in Kras, where they perform for Italy and a large part of Europe biomedical, medical technical tests. And we're kind of not responding to anything serious. In addition, Italy has set around the western border a series of university centres, Trst, Gorica, I see that I do not speak then also in Koroška, Celovec, Velivec, Gradec, and we are almost nothing in this area. The highway, which was approved 30 years ago in another country in another form, has not yet been built until Kopra and Nova Gorica and has not connected the Pada Valley, but we have built a highway to Trieste, so we are helping Trieste, not ourselves. In our places, for many years, there was a collection of gambling money, gasoline money from a major gas sale. This money went down in the state budget. There's nothing in the border areas. Don't these places deserve the third university, which is supposed to have a seat partly in Koper and Nova Gorica? In fact, when we enter the European Union, we must not leave our borders anywhere, around and around us, free from whatever happens, but we must preserve what we already have. I know that this is not just a question for you, Mr Minister, but a question that is meant for us and the government, Parliament, what will happen. But it will be very, very soon. And I don't think we're ready on this day in the field of Slovenia. Often, and I'll talk about it, at least until something else is done, because I don't think anything's really done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Christmas! Mr. Foreign Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u140	Dear Mr. Ambassador Christmas! When I listened to you, at some point, I said to myself, "from your mouth to the ears of God." That is, with most of what you've said, I agree and I think it should be repeated and remembered. In the end, you said something that bothered me, but I'll start at the beginning. I think your question deserves a thorough answer. If you're not satisfied with what I'm about to say, you'll get another one in writing. In particular, I would like to say that I would like you to be right when you say that Slovenia will be very soon in the European Union. By the way, you are interested in how Slovenia will maintain its reputation when it becomes a member of the European Union. The accession to the European Union is on our own terms and is intended to preserve the nations and, in our case, to preserve Slovenia. The entry into the European Union itself will, I hope, contribute to the preservation, maintenance and improvement of the situation of Slovenia. See, two things are quite clear when we are talking about Slovenia in the European Union. Firstly, there will be no borders for Slovenians outside Slovenia; members of the Slovenian community who live in other countries, especially the European Union, as well as those who become members of the European Union, will, of course, become closer, stronger, more closely connected members of the Slovenian national body, when these borders are of course less important or simply forgotten. And secondly, there will be no borders for Slovenians from Slovenia, so these Slovenians will be able to apply their Slovenia more widely. Their implementation of the vocabulary, our enforcement of the vocabulary will have fewer limitations. Of course, I would like to convince you first of all that the Slovenian government and our ministry, by having the Slovenian office around the world, in some way, on the outside, I hope to say that it is also a practical contribution to the preservation, enforcement, strengthening of the Slovenian ministry. Then I must tell you that so far no country, no nation that has become a member of the family of European nations, has lost its identity when it has become a member of the European Union. The fact that a nation loses itself, its identity, that we do not know, has never happened in the European Union. The European Union, at least in such a concept as we now know, is, in itself, its organisation, its own system, its concept of protecting small countries. Of course, Slovenians have a particular concern, a particular destiny, regarding our national identity. We have ensured our national identity in the past mainly through cultural means, through the activities of Slovenian writers, Slovenian artists, publicists, even dissidents in the past and so on. Today we have a Slovenian country, and I hope to say that having a Slovenian country, however, contributes significantly to our Slovenia being stronger. I would also say that mistrust in the country on the other hand has strengthened confidence in culture and that trust in the country today means trust in a higher level, in a higher level of protection of Slovenia. Look, of course, at first sight, when we think about the situation of Slovenia and Slovenia in the European Union, in the multitude of nations, among great countries, between languages such as French, Spanish, English and so on, we can feel small and weak. However, it seems to me that - somewhere in recent times there has been an event on this subject - it is true that the care for Slovenian and care for Slovenian care, for Slovenian culture, for the culture of Slovenia, in some way helps us to communicate more easily with abroad, with foreign cultures, to facilitate the promotion of our interests, we represent our views abroad. Whoever - I said this once, not long ago - who understands well, who knows Slovenian well, I think, will learn foreign languages more easily and communicate more easily in foreign languages. So I think that, with the concern that the Slovenian government, the Slovenian state, we all show to Slovenia and Slovenia, we are somehow contributing to the fact that we will also be better Europeans. To learn Europeans, to learn foreign languages and to learn Slovenian in particular, it is necessary to develop our education, to strengthen our education, to strengthen our institutions, including our schools, cultural institutions. I agree with you that it is essential to do so, especially in areas bordering, for example, neighbouring countries, to take special care of cultural institutions, such as universities. So I am one of them, and this government is one of those who supports the coastal university, the new university in Primorska. I believe that in the mandate in which everyone in this Parliament, in this government, will come together, this establishment, or the flourishing of university life in Primorska, will take place. The concern for Slovenia is, of course, concern for minorities. Allow me to update my response by reminding you of the concern our government is committed to adopting the protection law for Slovenians in Italy. Here sits the President of the National Assembly, who seems to me to be taking a very important path in a short time, which I hope would contribute to making this concern even more decisive and, hopefully, an effective way. The main problem with Slovenia is that it has little power compared to other countries that have greater power and whose institutions are much stronger. However, I imagine - I think we are here with a united opinion - that the European Union is the right framework for the protection of small countries and small cultures, small languages and I hope so too, a suitable framework for the protection of Slovenia. But speaking of which, Mr President, allow me to briefly comment on one more thing that has been put forward in some debate by Mr Peterlet in connection with this issue or with the Foreign Ministry and our work. I would only say that in these observations, which he stated was also a situation or a city related to the protection of the interests of the Slovenian minority. I would like to point out that there are two cases or two nominations for the Consulate General. These two appointments were made on 6 October, the right week before the elections, probably not for the purpose of the two general consuls operating until the end of the term of office of the government she appointed, but probably for four years. It was that this government, I would say, took advantage of its position to put, at the last moment of its life, the position for four years, in two positions for the four years of the people who are attached to it. In other words, I must say that the governments, the ministries of the countries to which these appointments were mentioned, have found that this is a matter of some kind, I would say, at least a controversial move if I did not say anything more, and they understood that when the elections came and when the new government came, the changes were logical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u141	Okay. Another question? [[No, no, ……]] You can't take your turn, mate Peterle. [[...]] As a rule, however, if I may say, the Minister is generally answering the question if it is raised by him, the question has previously been put to the Prime Minister. I suggest we stick to this practice in the future. If the question comes to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister should answer, otherwise, apart from his express authority in writing, he cannot be replaced by a Minister. Colleague Celigoj, colleague Sok, colleague Barovic, colleague of Potrate, colleague of Pukšič, colleague of Pohorec and colleague of Peterle are notified in order. First, Comrade Cheligoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u142	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question or for the word. My question would be addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Space, and probably also to the Ministry of Transport. It reads as follows: In the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, they have been asking and enraging for information on the route of the axis of the rapid motorway through the border crossing with Croatia, in Jelšana in the direction of Ilirska Bistrica and in the interior of Slovenia. The day of Slovenia's entry into the European Union is closer every day, and without that information they can not join the call for the project or the construction of a building plan for the Jelsana border crossing. Of course, "schengen" also knocks on the door with its infrastructure. In this regard, I ask you for that information or to explain to me: What are the reasons why, despite the years of incursion of the Illyrian Bistrica Congregation, the services could not explain the reasons why this information is not available? I would also like to know when this will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Government representatives, please. Mr. Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u144	Mr President, Mr Celigoj! I will probably not respond satisfactorily, but the Jelšana border crossing or the route to the existing motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia, so this route is not established in the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia, so these procedures are of course still under way. However, procedures for the border crossing are being stepped up or more intensively, which is one of the three most important in the Republic of Slovenia, because it lies on the future routes of motorways or expressways with the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these procedures have been stepped up due to the need to properly regulate these border crossings by the time of entry into the European Union. By responding to what will be the route as a connecting road to an existing motorway network, it is not yet possible to provide an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u146	Maybe an extra explanation. The Office for Spatial Planning within the Ministry of Environment and Space would, of course, be happy to draw the route of the highway or fast road, but it does not know where the point of contact with Croatia will be. This, of course, depends on their location plan and their authorities. To this I did not wish to define the available data, but it is true that in the last period, we have very much intensified our contacts in the last month, and on Tuesday I will have an assistant from the Croatian Minister for Environment and Space with the task of recording all the open problems. This is actually one of them. There are also some such pretzels, such as a well-known complication of the Sečovlje salty route, where Croatia wants the road to go through the Sečovlje border crossing, that the main road goes through the Sečovlje border crossing, and we would like to move the main road through the Dragoj border crossing, which is 4 kilometers more east, if I say so. In short, there are some such complications where somehow we cannot draw the point of contact with the Croats, and we will now try to arrange them. Whether we make it or not, I don't know. But we're trying, and it's Tuesday we're going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sok was next reported and then Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers and representatives of the government! I would like to return to the topic already set by Mrs Maria Pozsonec in my question of office. This is the so-called "bovine spongiform encephalopathy" of the BSE disease or, as journalists call it, the disease of mad cows. So Mrs Pozsonchevo was particularly interested in whether, as a consumer of beef, she was safe from this disease. And, of course, I would ask the Minister of Agriculture and the Government: How will the government help Slovenian farmers to cope with the livestock crisis caused by this disease in Western European countries? The damage that today is caused and mainly carried by Slovenian farmers is multilayered. Firstly, the purchase of beef decreased significantly and the purchase price is much lower than it was last year because of the large offer. Secondly, beef remains in stables and thus becomes obsolete, further reducing the established price on the market. The consumption of beef has decreased significantly and is decreasing at this point due to the application of new BSE cases abroad. Mr Minister said earlier that the consumption of beef decreased by 10% in Germany. I must personally say that I do not believe this information. Thirdly, some farmers have rented a loan for the purchase of breeding cattle, mainly for the purchase of breeding calves in Germany and other Western European countries. As a result of the prohibition on the import of this tribal material, they have not been granted credit, but they must start paying back. Fourthly, the price of strong feeders was greatly increased on the market due to the high demand for soybeans, which replaced bone - meat flour, and fifthly, a strong public opinion against the consumption of beef, which will not be easily repaired and will have a long-term impact on Slovenian cattle. It is therefore not necessary to stress that Slovenian bovine animals are at great risk as the prices of repromaterials have increased. Let's say oil, then fertilizers, protective agents, plastic foil. For some of these assets, prices also rose to 60%, while prices of beef on the market fell sharply. In all of this, the Government should be informed that the Slovenian cattle sector was severely affected by the drought in 2000 and that the beef farmers received the least-recovered compensation for the drought, as grassland and grassland were estimated to be the worst compared to other cultures. Nor does it need to be emphasized [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - just this sentence, and I conclude - that cattle is the most important livestock sector in most European countries and should certainly be in Slovenia, so at least it is in the agricultural development strategy that we adopted in 1993. In Slovenia cattle production is to a large extent extensive and this advantage could be taken advantage of if the government were aware of the problem that has arisen. It's a very big problem. I ask the Minister to specifically answer how the government will help farmers in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Agriculture Mag. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you. I've told the first part of the story before, it's what it says about consumers. As for the breeders, however, the government is more than simply aware of the problems it is. We meet about twice a week with representatives of breeders, trade unions and chambers, every Monday and usually on Wednesdays or Thursdays. So far, we have decided on two measures together. About a month ago, we increased the production of goods for export for meat products by 50%. Today, at a government meeting, we have introduced export subsidies or products for live animals worth 70,000 tolls per animal, and we estimate that in this way we will be able to take advantage of the opportunities that exist in some countries where a new market has simply emerged due to the ban on imports from most European countries, such as Germany, which was the main supplier. Another time. It is very clear that there are only two other measures: one is support for storage, the other is support or implementation of an intervention measure on the market with withdrawal from the market. Both measures are ready and we will take them the moment we and the breeders decide that they are necessary. Now, at this point, we are assessing that the measure will also have a positive effect from today. The measure also showed a positive effect a month ago. In Slovenia, at least at the moment, in the last three weeks, consumer safety is improving again slightly in the use of meat. If consumption fell from 25% to 40%, depending on the region of Slovenia about a month ago, it is now about 20%. In Germany - but I said data earlier - it fell to 10% of normal consumption, that is 90% [[We didn't get along right.]] . Otherwise, the answer is only one and it is quite clear which: the introduction of a market arrangement for beef and veal. I hope that we will have sufficient understanding within the government to confirm this measure; it is ready, coordinated, which means setting an intervention price, introducing and establishing representative markets, means introducing a strict regime, not by saying that there are so many and so many thousands of animals on the market, and then it turns out that only 30% of them are open when intervention on the market. However, data must come from authorised markets on a daily basis, crediblely. And if the price falls consecutively below the intervention price for fourteen days, the intervention on the market will be automatically triggered. This is the only logical and European repetitive solution. I hope we can get her in as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Another question, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u152	So, Mr. Minister, the market order is certainly the solution for the future. I asked what the government would do to the situation. So the damage I have counted is recorded and occurred at this point, and the Slovenian cattle industry is in a major crisis at this point. We really didn't know each other about spending in Germany, I understand otherwise. I ask you: What will happen if consumption falls so drastically in Slovenia? So, I would like to hear if the government is now ready for such measures and how it will help Slovenian beefers at this point in time for the damage they have already suffered.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u153	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you. I think I answered very clearly. At this point, we have assessed, together with the representatives of the breeders, that these two measures, which have been taken at this time, are sufficient. If we find that further action is needed next week, a storage support measure will follow. This means slaughtering a certain number of animals and paying all storage costs by the time the goods are sold. While the market order is not long-term, it is the current solution to the situation. Not in the long run. The market order shall be implemented as soon as it is accepted. There is nothing but market intervention. However, intervention on the market means that someone buys animals, slaughters them, the country in the budget, from the framework of intervention on the market pays all the animals, and this goods are sold to third markets and not to the markets at home in Slovenia, which means that the result would be just the opposite, because in fact, by releasing those spares, from the intervention buying-in of purchased meat would further undermine the market, which does not have the basic logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor, followed by Mrs Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President Borut Pahor. Dear representatives of the executive branch, colleagues and colleagues! I am addressing the oral question to the government and, of course, to the competent ministry. On 21 June 2000, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and on the development restructuring of the region. The Act was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 61, July 6th last year. On page 7.6.7.6 of this Official Journal, Chapter III states: "Indemnities for environmental damage caused by the operation of TET Trbovlje and Article 9(1) provide: The compensation for compensation to natural persons for environmental damage arising as a direct result of the operation of the thermal power plant as provided for in the progressive closure programme of the mine shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The amount required for a five-year period shall be up to 300 million tolars and for 2000 the amount shall be specifically for this compensation of 60 million tolars." The most affected village is Dobovec, in the Municipality of Trbovlje.The forests in this village are the lungs for Trbovlje and the surrounding area. An official study by the company, Erico, proved that 80% of the noise and 60% of the spruce forests were severely damaged on Dobovac. Injury is found in crops, animal disease is statistically proven year after year. Now the natives also have to reforest and rebuild forests with their own resources. People of Dobrovek demand an answer and responsibility. The question they are asking is: Why was the compensation for 2000 not paid? Who is to blame for disobeying the law? When and where will the responsible person or institution be responsible for failing to respect the law? And this is what they told me, if the explanation is to say and talk about the budget hole, it is absolutely of no interest to us, because the tax office doesn't care if any family has money when they have to pay their income, and they have to pay it by that exact time. And that. As in the world, no one is above the law. Thank you very much for your answer. But if you'll excuse me, I've only got one more mission. Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u157	I can add it to that. Government officials, who wants a word? The government. Please! You can turn it off, Comrade Barovich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u158	So the new Ministry of Economy is supposed to be responsible for the implementation of that part of the Act on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, which relates to the development restructuring of the region, and I can talk about this at this point. The fact is, last year's law was not enforced. Here, honourable Member, you are, of course, right. And because he failed to do so, there will be or has already been a delay in his realization. As far as the Ministry of the Economy is concerned, I can assure you that our ministry will start implementing the law this year in the part that remains within our competence. As part of temporary funding, we have provided some initial means for this law to begin to be implemented. We are also proposing a financial structure for this year's budget debate, where three ministries would participate in the implementation of this work, namely the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Environment and Space. For three types of measures are planned to co-finance this year. It is about creating spatial conditions for the development of new activities, establishing development infrastructure, restructuring the economy and promoting entrepreneurship and promoting investment in human resources development. We already endorsed the 2000 implementation plan for structural policy in the world last year, but then no implementation occurred, probably because of the budgetary problems faced by the previous government. In view of the suspension of the law, it is now necessary to update, update and update the programme of measures for the period 2000 to 2004. We have done this together with the region and the latest coordination with the Ministry of Labour is under way, and the government could conclude on this programme in a very short time. With regard to the implementation work for 2001, we are waiting for the budget, but we are not waiting, but we are also coordinating a concrete programme here with the region. More or less, it is a programme that has been submitted and is already coordinated for 2000 and will be implemented with a delay. The Structural Policy Council is expected to consider this programme in February. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much, mag. It's a steeple. Would you like to ask an additional question? Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the explanation. And I have to tell you that I know so much about this, that I also understand the answer to the question why funds from other parts of the programme have not been earmarked. If there are no programs, if there are no projects, I understand. However, only in this part of the 60 million, the locals affected are not obliged to do programmes and are entitled or entitled to demand that the law be implemented because the law is binding. And that's what they told me. Why, then, if it was to be imagined or felt or to know, did not, like many times in the National Assembly when this law was passed, write that it began to be financed in 2001. If we wrote, the natives would understand and be quiet. However, since the law says 60 million to affected individuals in the year 2000, who must embody damaged forests, of course they do not find any excuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Explanatory note from the government. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Majda Potrat now has the floor, followed by her colleague Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests! I ask the question to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. And I'm asking: What are the plans to resolve the difficult staffing and spatial position of the Translation and Interpretation Department at the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana? Let me explain my question a little bit. The funds for the rental of temporary premises of the Translation and Interpretation Department and the payment of external staff, as the number of structured posts has not increased as originally planned and agreed, are provided from the regular activities of the University of Ljubljana and are not sufficient for the implementation of the entire programme, but only for two thirds. If what is predicted to happen is that the study programme will be carried out in such a distorted form, it may be that students will not be able to perform exams, fulfil conditions, advance to the next year and also graduate. In addition, the University of Ljubljana did not call for seats in this programme for the 2001 and 2002 study years, thus preventing the possible repetition of the first year. In 1997, the established department was the only translation school with Slovenian as the primary language of special importance. It should therefore be dealt with separately and given special resources exempted from the funds for the ongoing functioning of the University of Ljubljana. It is known that Slovenia must ensure that European legal rules are translated into the target language, that is, in Slovenian, before and after integration into the European Union. It must ensure a sufficient number of well-trained translators and interpreters in increasingly frequent economic, political and cultural contacts. Finally, it must also ensure proper functioning in the institutions of the European Union. When we are already in the European Year of Languages, is this not an opportunity to ensure the normal functioning of the Slovenian language in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Peyovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u164	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I have to say, I came to this very hall from an interview at the university where we were dealing with a really pressing problem with the Department of Translation at the Faculty of Philosophy with the Rector and the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy. Your claim is correct that there was no invitation to tender for the first year of the Faculty of Philosophy for Translation this year. There are many reasons for this. The problem is complex. I can assure you that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will do everything possible to correct things as soon as they can. The underlying problems that have arisen are not only on the financial side, they are also partly on the human resources side, they are partly in the absence of habilitated teachers. We agreed that the Senate of the Faculty of Philosophy will prepare a study as soon as possible on what kind of translation study we need, and the Ministry of Education will try to provide the necessary funds for this. We are aware that a translation study does not only need to be integrated into the European Union; we need it to a much wider extent; a two-million-dollar nation will always need translators. It's a state-of-the-art situation. We agreed that the current situation, together with the Rectorate of the University, the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy and the Ministry, will be resolved permanently and the next meeting is scheduled in three weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. My friend Pukšič has the floor. He's been followed by a colleague of Pohorec. Please, buddy Pukšič!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today's daily newspaper states that "there has been no negotiations between the SVIZ and the government despite the agreement. The government has not prepared an inter-ministerial salary analysis. Were the promises of Minister Dimovski merely a deception?" That's what the paper says. In view of the gross salary of the professor, we are all well-known, with the highest status that can be achieved in education, 341 thousand gross, and in another profession more than 200,000 higher than in education, and given that we are all aware that real wage growth has risen by about 30% in school since 1992-1999, in some other sectors, 45% or on average in the public sector more than 38%, and that Minister of Finance Anton Rop has announced the adoption of the budget by the government even before the negotiations or the provision of funds for the salaries of schoolchildren, I ask you, Mr. Minister: Will your reputation and influence, according to the word given, also be linked to your resignation? Second question. I ask Minister Dimovski: Will there be a public tender, and when, to grant concessions for the provision of protection and employment services under special conditions for adults with disabilities with mental and physical disabilities? While such concessions have already occurred in eight cases, it is true that this was also in the orientations and preparations of the draft budget for 2001. Even from the Ministry, this call was promised by the end of 2000, and this was not the case. So, is it gonna be and, of course, when? One last question I'm asking Mr Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u167	It's gonna be time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u168	or I ask. [[...]] In view of that, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u169	You will ask an additional question, Comrade Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Some of what you have asked has already been answered by Minister Chokov, who has led virtually six negotiating rounds with SWIZ as a portfolio negotiator. In view of what has been published in the newspapers, I would say that today, before the government's meeting, a government negotiating group has met, as usual, and has prepared a proposal, as promised to trade unions in education and education last week. So this - as we agreed - and because it is also in the interest of negotiations - will be presented in negotiations with the unions that we have proposed for the end of the week or the start of the next week, certainly in agreement with the unions when possible. That's the first part of that answer. The second part of the answer is, as far as the information itself is concerned, what you, honourable Member, have asked. It is the fact that the committee - probably the president of the unions has not been informed of this or has been poorly informed - has received information for the economy about the pay policy for the period 1994-2000 in the first part, as we have predicted. It was also announced that the second part of the remuneration policy would be aimed primarily at assessing the relationship between individual sectors or also within sectors, which was also imposed on individual ministries, for the first time, by the conclusion of this government negotiating group, which does not have interference with the preparation of the whole payroll system, but only one part of the wage policy, as is actually the result of the decision to set up this government negotiating group. Therefore, perhaps this is an opportunity, as long as time allows, even for something, I would say, of the data for which the Ministry of Labour is responsible, in particular in terms of the uniformity of wage policy management. In fact, it is clear from this information that in some ways the falling wages, real wage growth for productivity of work are lagging behind because, in fact, the basic objective of a wage policy has been taken into account both in the public sector and in the so-called private sector. However, because of the various supplements received by individual groups or sectors in 2000, it threatened to come, you could say, some kind of wage explosion in the public sector where, in fact, the government started to act as some way in December and acted primarily in three ways. The first was, thus, imposed on the Ministry of the Interior to start drafting a law on public servants with tariff work or other, as a law on public servants plus a law on salaries in the public sector, which is in fact supposed to represent some kind of payment system. The second thing that happened. Coordination with trade unions, which have successfully ended with some, is, of course, continuing with some, as is relatively normal in negotiating structures, reached an agreement on a smaller escalation than envisaged by an agreement on wage policy, with a so-called public sector wage policy agreement, which in some ways enabled the escalation of 3.6%. The second escalation, as was also known since it was then legislated in the Minimum Wages Act, on the harmonisation of wages and the Regression for annual leave in December, at the December meeting of the National Assembly, was also envisaged that, with the second part of the escalation, as agreed in some way, it was mentioned and intended to attempt to influence, of course, in accordance with collective bargaining between individual trade unions and individual sector ministries, to reduce differences within sectors, which are the result of some past developments. As a third issue in the direction of unitary government action, this was the establishment of a government negotiating group on the public sector, which operates within the framework of its competent authorities in the direction of ensuring a single policy. As far as these statements made by the president of the union are concerned, that is all I would say. As far as these negotiations are concerned now that the Government's proposal is concerned, this would be explicitly mentioned and, of course, I am presenting in negotiations with trade unions, but all of this is still in the course of negotiations, as is the case for the normal course of negotiations, and it would be appropriate, of course, that these negotiations take place until negotiations are concluded. Of course, I would mention that there are, of course, different approaches in different sectors. We will now very carefully analyse everything that has actually happened in the so-called second part of this information on wage policy. In the third part, however, we started collecting data and obtaining databases to compare these salaries in the so-called European framework. Of course, I can answer this even more in detail, because I have this information before me about pay policy, where more accurate data are available. However, it was the Committee's assessment that this wage policy is in some way taking place on a regular basis, so that it is next week in line with the government's meeting. For the second part of your question, on the protection and employment services in the budget, I would ask if I could do so briefly. So, public competitions - I have to take a closer look, I must say that I do not have all the data right now so I can answer you. But I will make sure that you get a written answer to your questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u173	Will you, my friend Pukšič, ask an additional question? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Look. Indeed, we all know that the Law on Public Servants was actually prepared in the previous term, and also in the tariff work, and then in the coalition it did not go through, so it was not in the State Assembly. It would not be right to do so this time, although teachers' salaries have been lagging behind almost 10% for the public sector over the past ten years, in order to continue this, of course, and it would not be right to adopt a government budget without the provision of wage funds, what has already been agreed upon after the collective agreement. I understand from your response that this will be ensured. So that's actually a pleasure. I'd like to ask Minister Booth: Given that there was also an item in last year's budget, I do not know exactly its address, but we both know what this is about, namely the promotion of agriculture in municipalities, the means to promote agriculture in municipalities, this call was not made last year. Given that this was an item in the budget, the Ministry of Agriculture obviously did not adhere to the implementation of the budget law. I'm asking you: Will these funds, which fell out last year, unjustifiably, due to the municipalities, in the budget line, be added to this budget and, of course, will the municipalities have the opportunity to apply for that one-year delay call? Many congregations in the agricultural field were, of course, misled or ran out of funds. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u175	Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The programme you mentioned, or the measure that actually started two, three years ago, was available in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia 500 million tolars last year. Of course, because of liquidity problems in 1999, the total obligation to pay the agricultural promotion obligation in the municipalities was transferred to the 2000 budget burden, the total amount of 500 million was spent on the 1999 commitment payment. This means that the Ministry did not have a legal basis because it did not have a free budgetary resource to make and implement the call. This means that this is the problem and this problem will have to be solved in some way and here is now a matter of course of agreement, whether in 2001 to make a tender after the adoption of the budget for last year, as you suggest, or to resolve the matter in a different way. By stressing that the call was not made available because the budget item was not available because it was used to pay the obligations of the previous year, which, of course, was the result of the non-liquidity or failure of the payment of that payment to the priority list of payments and then the payment fell under the burden of budget 2000.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Member Valentin Pohorec will ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and your fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members! My question is addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the 1970s Petrol Ljubljana, d.o.o. The refinery uses a cave at the Poesniški court in the municipality of Pesnica for refinery waste. So-called acid guadron and other oil waste. This cave was designed to deposit about 25,000 cubic metres of waste oil, called gudron. The transport to the cave was carried out until 1983, when the water management inspection banned further disposal. It was found that the cave is practically full, and to a large extent also contributed to the intrusion of ground water and meteor water into that landfill. In order to reduce the useful volume in the cave and the possible spill of waste oil into the Gačnik River and further along the Pesnica River, Petrol joined the first phase of the landfill rehabilitation. In 1989 he built a sewage treatment plant, that is to say, this flow, and later introduced daily duty on the landfill. And that's all that happened in the '30s. The lake of acid goudron is still in Slovenian Gorica. The surrounding areas and the local community, as well as other structures, such as hunters, fishermen, demanded that those responsible at Petrol, the Ministry of the Environment and Space and the Ministry of Defence cooperated with the water catchment area here as soon as possible to repair the waste oil landfill. That cave is causing and contaminating the environment, and it is particularly threatening with a possible ecological disaster. Therefore, the Municipality of Pesnica has been monitoring activities related to the rehabilitation of the cave for many years with inspection services. A special committee was set up to monitor the recovery of that landfill. Therefore, I ask you for information: When will a program of activity be prepared to rehabilitate an environmentally dangerous and unfriendly landfill? I am also interested in the level of funding planned in the 2001 budget for the rehabilitation of the said pit or when the remaining financial resources will be planned if recovery is not completed this year. Finally, I want to know: Has the Ministry examined the possibility of paying pensions to the most vulnerable people in the area? I am sure that Minister of the Environment and Space Janez Kopač will find time to take a personal look at the situation, as many other officials of the Republic of Slovenia have done before him, and finally move the recovery process forward. In Slovenia we face many oppositions to waste and waste management projects, also because similar mistakes have been made in the past, such as the Gudron Cave at the Poemsniški Dvor, which has been waiting for its solution for 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. Janez the Ripper.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, honourable Member Pohorec! Not only did Petrol start using this cave in the 1970s, it started using it in 1967. Well, and with today's eyes, we can't really understand how they decided to do something like that, in short, to put something so highly toxic in a cave, where it rains, it washes away, and so on. Well, many past ministers were involved in this - you yourself mentioned a few measures - otherwise, the last measure you mentioned was in 1989, in November 1996, an inspection at the Ministry of the Environment and Space of the then Petrol-Trgovina company in Ljubljana ordered that it should immediately implement the remedial measures and that it should also develop a final strategy for the management of the specific wastes deposited in the Palace of Pesnica, in Bohova and in the Study; they gave them a deadline of 31 January 1997. Well, nothing happened until then. Then, in October 1997, the inspection reissued the decision to develop a monitoring for the implementation of the measurements and to supplement the operating rules and the application for a water treatment plant permit. On 5 February 1998, the following year, the Environment Inspectorate issued an administrative execution decision for failure to carry out the tasks previously laid down, i.e. in October 1997. And nothing happened again. In June 1999, an inspection was carried out with the representatives of Petrol. At that time, it was found that during the month, that is, just before that, essential maintenance work had been done to ensure that the waste water treatment technology was not satisfactory to increase the stench, which is why Petrol's representatives signed a contract to change the cleaning technology with the hydroengineering company at the time. [[...]] It was also found that the thickness of the extracted oil is suitable for processing. The inspection then issued an oral decision at the site, which is a rare case in which Petrol ordered that, in order to prevent the stench and improve the quality of purified water, it take urgent measures to change the treatment of waste water, with the time limit immediately, on the spot. That was June 1999. And it didn't happen much. In March 2000, a decision was issued authorising enforcement for the non-implementation of this oral decision and it was concluded that urgent measures should be taken to change the treatment of waste water, and the time limit set subsequently was 20 May 2000. After that date by the Ministry, then the government changed, nothing happened. According to the latest view available data, the method of recovery has been agreed, a recovery programme has been developed, according to me, of course, available data in Petrol. Petrol has taken over the rehabilitation of the acid goron dump and is resisting the recovery of the other two caves, the Students and the Gods. However, inspection has shown, and this also shows a quick inspection of the city’s face, that these two caves also need emergency remediation. As far as the means to rehabilitate the Songyard are concerned, they must not be problematic. This rehabilitation must be provided by the polluter, and this is undeniable and does not resist, Petrol. More importantly, it is a problem to determine who is the polluter of the other two pits. We all know, or the surrounding population, that it is, of course, the same company. However, since there has never been a usable permit because there has never been any paper, the polluter is not formally known, so in the case of these two caves there is some kind of legal dispute, which is actually the one responsible for their recovery. The Ministry does not have the planned funds in 2001, not for the Poet Hall, nor for the other two caves, because of course we still hope that we will be able to tackle the recovery of what we believe to be the cause. The Ministry insists on the principle that the rehabilitation of the degraded space must be paid by the polluter, so of course we also do not plan the means of renting, but we believe that this is a matter of civil relations between the affected population and the polluter. This country certainly isn't. If the dispute is going to linger for these other two caves, I don't think for the Poet Hall, then of course once again, as in many other cases, the state will probably have to enter. We don't have this planned right now, so it's for 2001. That's my answer. But I'm gonna try to see how true this is right now. But I have to say that I also happen to know because yesterday I had a visit to Velenj and they were presenting various business projects to me that they were developing a fire extinguisher right now. If this works, it will be one way to make it easier to dispose of this hazardous waste, which, as I have already mentioned, is to put it in a completely illogical way today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thanks for the answer. Would you like to ask again? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. I give my word to Mr Aloise Peterlet, and it is next: Sonja Areh Lavrič, Mirko Zamernik, Miran Potrč, Dr Marija Ana Tisovic. Mr. Peterle, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. None of my travels in Dolenjska will go without a number of questions, but protests, particularly the demands of citizens regarding the construction of the so-called Lower Highway. I promised the citizens and the Regional Economic Chamber for Dolenjska that I would ask this question in public or as a question of the delegation. We all know how to set priorities for highway construction. People in the lower municipalities understood to a certain extent the delay in the construction of this highway at a time when there was relatively little traffic towards Zagreb and Belgrade. However, when things began to change and they also experienced their echo on the roads, especially after political changes in Serbia, people in Dolenjska will not understand any more hesitation or excuses regarding the construction of this highway. This hesitation also stems from the very long failure to complete the technical preparations that would allow decision-making at government level. I know that the proper papers were actually prepared before the elections, but the matter did not come to a decision in the government. So people see this as discrimination and developmental constraints, but also as a failure to respect the economic, in particular the export role of Dolenjska. I do not think it is necessary to mention in particular what they mean in the export structure of Revoz, Krk, Trimo and any other bottom company. The fact is that at least the motorway was built in Dolenjska during these years. I speak in a relative sense. I know that we have a national programme that sets priorities and ranks, we have limited resources. I know, as the Minister of Transport also knows, that the petrol toll has been misused and appears to continue. However, I cannot explain to the Dolenjians that the state is concerned that it does not adhere to its own words regarding the purpose of the use of the petrol tolar. They don't care about that at all, and they don't accept it. However, they know that motorway construction on other sections has been so expensive that the continuation of dynamics, already planned dynamics is at stake and that construction of the lower highway can therefore be under great difficulty. I think that, and of course not alone, I think we should be concerned that, given the new traffic loads, the lower highway builds on accelerated dynamics. I also know that the Ministry of Transport is not the only decision-making factor. Here's the MOP, here are the municipalities and so on. I ask the Minister of Transport what and when he will do to make the construction of this road run on the state side with appropriate dynamics.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Transport Jakob President will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Peterle! In my answer, of course, I will be brief. Once there are known indicative data on this year's available means for the construction of the highway network, we will prepare or send it to the government and then also to the parliamentary procedure a plan for the development and maintenance of motorways this year. We are aware, as you have already seen, that traffic along ten corridors is mainly on the bottom side, that this traffic is also greatly increased by opening up this area or opening up countries that are lying in this direction. That is why we will try to take this into account in the implementation or preparation of this plan. Specifically, in what state are individual, both spatial documents and procedures in preparation for the construction of individual sections, we will send you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you very much for the additional question. I understand to some extent that this is a matter of asset assessment, but I fear that this is already part of an excuse that will lead to a shift in dynamics. I know that some things can happen or they can be prepared, no matter how money goes. I know that the Ministry of Environment and Space could come to the stage of spatial documents or when decision-making is possible. I would like to ask the Minister, this is the path of the Minister of the Environment and the place where the material will come before the government, where alternatives will be made to the route from Korendika to Hrastje. It's a section where there were strange things happening from me at times, three studies on the same subject three times, the same conclusions three times, but still dilemmas. We in Dolenjska expect the decision to begin, but not to continue to make some variants that will be processed by the same houses. We are looking forward to progress here, but with the government, if it finds out that there are no such funds, and it will probably be found, I am afraid, I am interested in Mr Minister, whether there is also a version of the concession being processed. Apparently, we're getting close to a time when there's not enough money and there's a lot of pressure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Minister, are you going to answer any further questions? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u188	Studies have already been submitted. In addition, about two weeks ago, I signed a public hearing or public hearing procedure. That's how I don't see any confusion in this. It is true, however, that there are conflicts of interest in the space and eventually the government will have to decide whether or not to do so. We all know because this problem has been through Parliament, so it has been through the general public for many years. It's a problem whether the road goes around Trebnje or it goes down the valley of the Temenica River or it goes around a little bit. This "a little bit around" has from one billion to three billion more costs in different variants than in the valley of the River Temenice. The point of view of the Ministry of Environment and Space is that it is necessary to look for the option to protect the quality of space as much as possible, and I can say that this is something similar to what the municipal council of the municipality of Trebnje wants. However, it is also necessary to understand the position of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which would also like to supplement this section with the resources at its disposal. I also had a meeting with Mayor Trebnje and a while ago with the Director of the Spatial Planning Office. I've made a special effort to solve this problem myself. I am sure that with some smart compromise, with which not everyone will be entirely satisfied, we will also solve this problem. Now we have a new problem that has never happened before. This is the problem of a substitute farm, and in short, we're gonna have to deal with it. Although it may sound small, at times a case of this kind can take a relatively long time. At this moment, we have a reservation from the Ministry of Agriculture on account of this particular farm.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Ambassador Sonja Areh Lavrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have a question for the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the center of Slovenj Gradz, the thermal incineration plant of industrial waste, against which is the strong human will. The same attitude was shown by the citizens in an attempt to set up a lighter in Kidrič because people decided that the lighters in their place did not want to be set on fire. There is no will to set lighters in Slovenia, because our country is too small for such a strong ecologically controversial burden. We are confident that incineration plants will also be used over time to incinerate toxic waste, which will be based on the economy and marketability of the facilities. As an example, let me mention the planned Slovenian fire extinguisher where the analysis was made, but it did not even take into account the obvious meteorological facts, such as breezes. In this area, it is a third of a year without wind, especially in colder months, causing the accumulation of dangerous substances in the air. There is also no data on emissions, concentrations of harmful or toxic substances in the air in Slovenj Gradec because there is no such measuring device. Europe has already developed a number of environmentally friendly ways of collecting, sorting, recycling waste, where there is no talk of incinerators. That is why I ask the Government of RS and the competent ministry whether we have a strategy on the sorting and processing of waste without lighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Tauzes, Secretary of State, will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As far as incineration is concerned, of course this smoke effect is present not only in Slovenia, but everywhere in Europe. But given the question of how the waste burning strategy is in Slovenia, I would say there are two problems here. We have a problem of incineration, such as hazardous industrial waste, here of course Slovenia has entered Europe's wider economic space and several licensed exporters of waste ensure that in Slovenia a significant number of hazardous waste is exported to incinerators that hold this licence most often in France or Germany. For the time being, there are also some industrial incinerators in Slovenia, mainly waste lacquers and mycelium in the Lek factory in Lendava. These are incinerators which do not incinerate other wastes than those produced themselves. They are all licensed, but they are smaller, both by quantity and by the level of risk of these wastes being incinerated in those incinerators. As for Kidrièva, however, the problem is, of course, the issue of incineration or the problem of municipal waste. As regards municipal waste or municipal waste management, the government, of course, has already expressed a rather clear position when almost all the regulations relating to municipal waste management were issued or issued in February. There are mainly hands or strategic points inside, until when and how municipal waste must be processed, must be collected separately and, of course, disposed of in a prescribed manner. For the time being, there is no great need to incinerate municipal waste, as far as free landfill capacity is concerned. We already have data for a wide range of regions that we have available capacity by 2008, 2009, but we will probably not be able to avoid burning municipal waste, as Europe cannot avoid this problem. However, until the completion of these programmes, which have to be managed by landfills by 2003, in line with the rules, as in Europe, as regards waste disposal, we are not likely to decide on municipal waste incineration plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u194	The assessment, the meteorological data you mentioned, of windlessness, was mentioned in one study that did not participate in any proceedings. The Ministry has a prescribed procedure for assessing environmental impacts. This requires individual or specific elements and requires it to go through a procedure through the administrative authority. In particular - the incinerator in Slovenia Gradec or this study, or say "studio" did not go through any procedure through the administrative body. That is why, of course, we cannot identify ourselves with her. However, it might be even more convincing for the inhabitants to initiate a procedure called 'environmental impact assessment' and then perhaps the results of this human will test would be slightly different.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to ask again? [[No, no, ……]] Instead of Mr Mirk Zammernik, the question will be raised by Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are asking the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the face of the catastrophic consequences of mad cow disease for Slovenian livestock farming, it is obvious that the Ministry of Environment and Space is using this natural disaster to conclude for the country of harmful contracts which bring extra profits to the pockets of individuals who are somehow related to public officials. It is a contract on the heat treatment of animal waste with Toka and a contract on the export and incineration of food fats to Austria. To this end, government officials in public performances foster public excitement and ecological hysteria so that the high prices foreseen for burning animal waste seem acceptable. The Ministry of Finance also notes in letter No 321-7/2000, signed by Minister Rob, that these are harmful contracts which appear to be contrary to the law. The source he sent us from the Ministry of Environment and Space states in an additional footnote that it is a matter of dealing with a corrupt background. I ask the Minister of Environment and Space: Do you not think that because of the signing of harmful contracts we should offer a withdrawal? Why has the government decided to provide a solution that foresees burning fat abroad at an extremely high price, even though it is an organic substance whose complete combustion, without harmful residues, is possible in every major energy facility for solid or liquid fuel, even through a lubricant or a combustion oil? Thus, these wastes are also incinerated in some meat processing companies with their own energy facilities in Slovenia, because fat is a highly calorie energy source if you do not use it for livestock feed. In fact, it is also a shameful export of this source and humiliation of Slovenia before neighbouring Austria. I also ask how the tender for this incineration was conducted, to which the domestic tenderer has applied, in addition to an Austrian-Slovenian-owned company, and what price reduction, according to the offer, has been achieved. I also ask the Government which current and former government officials are shareholders in Koto or its majority owner, the company for the performance of Athens, or its owner Activa Group. The Ministry of Environment and Space has signed a contract with Kota on heat treatment of animal waste at an enormously high price, which according to the Minister of Finance is more than 100% high. It also provides for payment by the State within 8 days, although the law provides that the payment period is at least 30 days. But we do know that the state chooses normally. [[...]] [[You don't understand. You talk to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u197	Please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u198	I will. Just the last one. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior whether they have already ordered a criminal investigation into the obvious crimes involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you so much for asking. Answers, Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Member Jerovšek, of course, planted something in his famous style, I can say, vile thoughts. The list of ministries can, of course, be quoted as much as it wants, but it should be borne in mind that sometimes ministries write some comments which later appear to be completely untraceable in coordination. Which one of them turns out to be justified and was also introduced. In the stage of considering a proposal for a contract that you obviously do not have before you, in order to be able to verify it with the final text of the contract, it could be concluded that there have been certain changes, which are more or less editorial in nature, on the basis of the Ministry of Finance's comments. What it says in there is not clear, for example, why the contract is concluded, whether it is concluded for the heat treatment of animal waste or for the purchase of bone meal, but it is pure 'nonsens', since Article 1 of the Treaty makes it clear that this is a contract for the heat treatment of animal waste. But there is no point in arguing about it because other Members do not have before them these comments that you quoted. I just want to say that the obvious that it was a harmful contract, you've already used the obvious that it was harmful, and one of them said that it was a harmful contract, it's also a matter of proof. So, of course, I would ask you very nicely to prove it to me, because there are some facts that need to be known. And I'm gonna try to put them down for a little while. Before the frenzy with mad cows began, the price of bone, feed and bone meal was approximately 60 to 90 tolars per kilogram. We now pay heat treatment of animal waste after 41.5 tolar per kilogram for quantities not exceeding 144 tonnes per working day of the year. The average daily quantity of animal slaughterhouse waste produced is now around 230 tonnes per working day. In contrast, between 144 and 230 we pay a lower price at which we negotiate. The lower limit to which we negotiate or to which we can negotiate under the provisions of the Treaty is 34 tolars. If we knew that about 42 to 45% of one kilogram of animal waste was made of dry matter, about two thirds of which was flour and one third fat, then we could calculate that now at this price, that is, 41 tolars per kilogram or 34 tolars per kilogram per quantity over 144 tonnes per working day, we would pay about as much as if we were buying bone meal before this madness that started. The fact that we are buying this bone meal, or that we are buying it now - in saying that we are buying it now - or that we are paying for the heat treatment of animal waste that the whole of Europe is doing - that where they are buying flour is the invention of some journalist - that this whole Europe is paying for the heat treatment of slaughterhouse waste from the budget, is the fact that without it, of course, it would go bankrupt or stop the complete livestock industry in Europe. Of course, it won't work for a long time. Some of these costs will have to be passed on to slaughterhouses and, of course, slaughterhouses will be passed on to breeders and buyers, and then other Members, such as Mr Sok, as he did today, will ask the government what it will do to facilitate the difficult economic situation of animal breeders. In short, the government adopted conclusions that decided to pay for the heat treatment of animal waste on 21 December last year. On 28 December last year, we concluded a contract with the Freight Reserves. It started driving bone flour to Blanca near Sevnica. The negotiations with Koto lasted and lasted. Since Koto has only about 30% of its revenues from this business, and about 70% of its revenues are earned by completely different businesses, which have nothing to do with it, but the only café in Slovenia that is capable of processing this amount of slaughterhouse waste, of course we had to negotiate with him and with whom else - there is no other. And he could afford to say to himself that I am no longer going, because he loses 30% of his income and the country loses 100% of its slaughterhouses - not its own, but 100% of its slaughterhouses, livestock farmers and meat processing industries, which are tied to it. That's, we've calculated, 34,000 jobs. So, it is my responsibility to say that if the government did not sign this contract on 11 January this year, which is not at all inconvenient, if we compare it with bone meal prices before the beginning of this frenzy, then of course on 12 January we would have about 34 thousand people on the road or in the coming days. And the Slovenian livestock industry would have collapsed, probably for a long time. It is therefore important to ask ourselves, of course, what are the potential alternatives. I'll tell you what the potential alternatives are. One alternative is driving across the border. The Croats have a large cafeteria in Medjimur, including the Austrians have their own cafeteria, but our veterinary agreements with these two countries do not allow us to export waste, allow us to export meat or products. Well, that's not an alternative. What's the other alternative? Set up another cafeteria. That's possible. We have poultry Ptuj and poultry Pivka, which have their own local cafeterias, but there are small mills. Chicken bones are smaller than beef bones. That's why, of course, someone has to crush it. If we wanted to set up a new cafeteria that would, of course, meet all the standards and regulations in force in the Republic of Slovenia, we would spend a lot of money and also many months. All these months, of course, the slaughterhouses would have stopped. It should be known, however, that on the day 230 tons of waste arise, if it starts to rot, and this winter is not too cold, then of course it is a problem after one day. This is not a problem that we could discuss on the questions sent this month, and next month we would argue about it in newspapers. We need to take action. The government is here to act. And she acted effectively. There's another alternative. I spoke to the director of the veterinary department. He said, "Why don't we make a group tomb?" That's possible. It is possible under our legislation, but this is only possible in the case of the mass death of a herd or something like that, but it is not possible to declare extraordinary conditions every day for 230 tons of waste and find a location, as something must be buried. In short, there was no alternative. I could say we took it relatively cheap. Now let's move on. It's a temporary contract. It lasts until the end of June. Now, of course, we are trying to find an alternative because we don’t like being exposed to the kind of blackmail that we have witnessed. We are trying to find an alternative abroad as well as Slovenia, although I do not think we will succeed in Slovenia in such a short time. The government is preparing a regulation already in the government procedure, which will open an international invitation to tender to search for a concessionaire for the processing of animal waste and a concessionaire for incineration. Well, now we're going to burn because you were talking about him and you were very smart. We've been collecting offers. This was a public call for tenders, where we found three offers and the offer of Ecoles was the cheapest. At the same time, we asked two other incinerators in Slovenia to take a test to see if the emissions of this incineration might be such that they were controversial. We're still waiting for the results of this test. As soon as we have them, of course we will go, at least in Slovenia if not in the international invitation to tender for the incinerator of these fats. As far as bone meal is concerned, the same thing will happen. We'll also be looking for an incinerator with an international invitation to tender. But bone flour is a minor problem because you can store it. I will try to finish for a moment, but Mr Jerovšek will probably ask another question. As far as I can tell, someone from the government has something to do with Koto. Please take a look at a public book, such as a land book or something else, and see if there is someone you don’t like or want to put something on it. Otherwise, there may be additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u202	Mr. Secretary was, of course, a picker, but he did not satisfy me with his answer. The undeniable fact is that you were in a hurry with this signature. The Ministry of Finance shall specify the eight-day payment period, which is not normally in contracts. I know technically well that fats can be smoked, heated and smoked on every burner and do so in some companies and I know which companies. In fact, there is no need to study emissions because it is organic waste that burns completely. About the bone meal. Mr Tauzes was on TV saying how you would go to an international invitation to tender if he had already said the price, 500 mark per tonne. I'll tell you, bone flour has about 9,000 kilos of calorie bone flour if you're smoking it like a renegade. 500 marks per tonne is not obtained for a clay which goes through such a calcination furnace twice and has to be smoked with gas or with oil and must be extracted from the boxing, for example, from the clay. In this way, you cannot control the country by saying in advance, you expect a costly offer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u204	Well, now there were two specific findings. You see how embarrassing it is to discuss something that's designed like this past the beam. The eight-day payment period is agreed in the contract and the Ministry of Finance has agreed on it, but this is an eight-day deadline for services already provided. This is not an eight-day deadline for services in the future. A legal deadline is foreseen for future services. So, on January 11th we concluded a contract, but we have concluded it for things that have already been done, because this treaty should actually be concluded by November 29th or 30th, which is still at the time of the Bajuk government. We have faced a problem that actually stems from an international psychosis in this regard, so it is not an internal Slovenian. The former government did not invent it itself, but this treaty should have been concluded before the implementation of the regulation adopted by the Bajuk Government and entered into force on 1 December. That is why we have concluded a contract for the transactions already carried out and set an eight-day deadline there. The Ministry of Finance agreed with him. What you have there is pure fiction - or what you quoted. However, a legal payment period is provided for, as is the case for all other transactions with budgetary users. As for the price of 500 marks per tonne, which you also mentioned, you have taken it out of context again. State Secretary Tauzes spoke at a government press conference about [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] How? Well, even at the government press conference, it doesn't matter. In short, he spoke publicly about the reference price for us, co-maximum, 500 German marks per tonne of waste because 500 German marks are the price for burning tons of municipal waste. But that's the top price for us. All that will be lower and what we will achieve on the basis of an international call for proposals - and I am sure that we will achieve a significantly lower price, which has already been shown in the case of fat burning, where we have calculated that this will cost us 60 tolars per kilogram, and we have reached 32, if I am not mistaken, with Ecoles from Ptuj, the original price was 60 - and I am also confident that we will halve this price on the basis of a public tender or at least we will approach it. Of course, that takes time. In short, 500 German marks per tonne were the reference price as the upper limit. This is something we know today, because bone meal has never been burned and charged. We don't have any reference price, we can only look at something that already exists.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and representatives of the government! I intended to raise an oral question related to consumer protection and the fact that, following the consumer protection law adopted in 1988 and after six months, many sub-legislative acts should be adopted, there is no negative impact on the exercise of their rights, including on the way in which heat and other energy are calculated. Because it is a late hour, because I will be happy if the government promises to start addressing these shortcomings within 30 days, I will ask a written question about this problem and I will be grateful if I also get a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Will someone answer? [[No, no, ……]] The word is Maria Ana Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My question was addressed to the Ministry of Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. However, since my question is in fact the same as that of Mrs Potrat, it would be a real shame not to join the Translation Department this year. I would therefore like to stress once again that this entry needs to be made possible. But it certainly is not a solution that is much spoken of or heard, as one would say that the translation programme would be shortened, because I fear that then our translators will no longer be of quality. The problematic skills of our translators, at least some of them, can be seen in the book translations, subtitles of television films, in public places, such as when Mr Clinton was visiting us in Ljubljana. I ask for a written reply from the Ministry, how they will solve this problem and also solve it for the 2001-2002 school year, especially because this problem has been addressed by both students and the likely future students of this department at the Faculty of Philosophy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dr. Stana Peyovnik, Secretary of State, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I think I've already explained what's going on. The question is whether to prepare a written answer to you immediately, about the current state of affairs, or whether you are willing to wait for a month or two to be answered in writing, when the talks I spoke about before will take place, and the verification at the Senate of the Faculty of Philosophy and at the Senate of the University of Ljubljana. I'm sure you'll get a written answer. It's just that maybe you'll get it twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I really want a written answer when you do. That's why I asked for a written answer, because I've practically got my lips before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u212	Thank you very much. They'll get the word "magic." Andrej Vizjak, Dr. Joseph Bernik, Silva Črnugelj, Pavel Rupar, Jože Tanko. Mr. Magus has the floor. Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Dr. Joseph Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. In fact, my question should be addressed to the whole government, but I will be pleased if Dr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, can answer me, because according to some strange logic or illogicality, some kind of capital of the Slovenian state has crossed over its area. What kind of capital am I talking about? I'm talking about the capital of our people, our people. This capital, which is both at home in Slovenia and outside Slovenia, is not nurtured, is not used and has been written off for many years now. If we look at what's going on around us. It's the aliens first. On Friday, I think it was last Tuesday, a delegation of marketed and bitter Slovenians who were desperate to say what would happen to this law on the protection of the Slovenians and what would happen if it did not. Today we heard it was repositioned. We read that the world of the Viennese Region sent a request to Rome for a referendum on this matter. That's what they say. Things don't look good. There have been many discussions both in the foreign ministry and elsewhere, but these were only promises that had not been made so far. This is my first question, the following. A few days ago, we read that our Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Kacin, spoke with one influential policy from the Berlusconi Party of Next Italy. Here I ask the question of who is doing Slovenian foreign policy. Can each of us Members walk the world and make foreign policy? Maybe someone can explain it to me. But I'm especially interested in how these things are coordinated. That's the first question. The second question is then related to some of the facts that I will count. Mr Bozič already mentioned that threats and new opportunities for economic, cultural and other opportunities are opening up to Slovenia's approach to Europe. For Slovenia as a country, for Slovenians as a substitute and also for all other Slovenians around the world. So far, no one's gone through this and I don't know where it belongs. There's nothing wrong with that. The next thing is this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u214	Please, if you'll just finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u215	Right away. We do not have a white book, for example, about our situation with Italy, since the previous century. The key to the whole thing is that the Slovenian state does not have a strategic or global framework and law for Slovenians beyond the Slovenian borders even after ten years. Even those people in the ministry, such as the Office for Slovenians around the world and the surrogate or the commission, if, with the same name, they have to work somehow because there is no framework. We've been waiting ten years for this thing, and I think it's very embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u217	Your Honor, Mr. Bernick. Of course, I think the problem you're alerting is important, but I would say the government is dealing with it. This government, yes or I personally, only a month and a half, so there may be a problem in this short period of time, but I would like to convince you that our purpose, the problems you are talking about if they are not yet settled, is to be resolved. It is not true that the capital of people living outside the Republic of Slovenia would be that you think of Slovenians to have this capital written down. I myself was an ambassador to the United States of America, and I would say that I had daily contact with the Slovenians who live there. I must say that we have planned together and have also achieved a variety of ideas that have been in our country's best interests and also their benefits. After all, our diaspora has already contributed a lot to this country's human capital, and after all, one prime minister. As regards the Slovenian market and the law on the protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy, the information is sometimes somewhat different. My information is actually more stimulating than it is. I hope, however, that in early February we will hear the news that the Italian Senate has confirmed the law on the protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy.The latest data suggests that the actual agenda is now set, that some deadlines for debates in the Senate will be reduced and so on, that, of course, there is a lot of talk around this law, there is a lot of speculation that there are political problems, both in the region of vision, both in Rome and among the parties. This is probably no secret for Dr Bernik and for all of us, because of course we know what the political process is or what the protection of minority rights or the protection of ethnic rights in democratic society is. All these things need to be negotiated and sometimes negotiations are difficult. As for Kacin's visit to one of his parliamentary colleagues. I must say that our ministry has been informed of this visit or this meeting and that we have also provided Kacin with certain information that was needed in order for this meeting to succeed. However, we are trying to reach a successful conclusion on several channels, Commissioner, in order to come to a successful conclusion of our activities. Coordination takes place as defined in the law I must say that this coordination may be better today than it has ever been. I agree with you that approaching the European Union represents threats and opportunities for Slovenia. I spoke about this a little while ago in response to the question asked by Mr Christmas Member. It is true that Slovenians who do not live in the Republic of Slovenia do not play such a central role in these threats and opportunities, but they do have a role. I hope they have a role as a catalyst, an inducer, an interpreter. When it comes to this law, which I am talking about, we have been greatly assisted by the well-known senator of the Slovenian family Mitja Volčič. Other names could be mentioned, which have done great services to Slovenia. Of course, I believe that the Slovenian state will not be without words when it comes to their problems or at any time. We have a White Paper on Italy or relations between Slovenia and Italy or we have a report from the Commission dealing with this most critical period between the country or nation and this White Paper or this report will be published shortly. As far as the law for Slovenians is concerned. I would agree that it wouldn't be bad if we had it. For the time being, the position of Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia is governed by the Slovenian Constitution, regulated by various laws. One of those who regulates this area in part is the law on external matters. You know that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we also have a Slovenian office around the world that is systematically and professionally coping with the problem of the life of Slovenians outside the borders. We are far from neglecting the problem of the Slovenians outside May to ignore the diaspora. In a way, the recognition of diaspora is also that, Mr Member, you are sitting in these benches and that you are rich, I would say, our democratic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Please. That's an extra question.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u219	Very short. That's all I'd say about this protection law for Slovenians around the world. It's been ten years, it's been said, four of Drnovsk's governments, and it hasn't moved anywhere. I therefore hope that this will be the question of getting a seat in the government and that it will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Would you like some more?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u221	Your Honor. I would suggest that we join forces to perhaps write a draft of such a law together. I have to say that I don't know exactly what his range would be or how extensive this object would be. But I think the idea is absolutely acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Member Silva Chernugel will raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-known representatives of the government, ladies ministers and ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today I decided to ask the Minister of Finance a question. I would like to know whether the Ministry of Finance is preparing a package of sub-legislative acts and regulations. If it is being prepared, I would like to know when it is intended to be presented to the public, namely a package of sub-legislative acts that would stimulate or more precisely define the stimulation of donorism and sponsorship in the field of culture and humanitarian activities, in particular that part of the culture and that part of the humanitarian activity which is not so medialy, for example, attractive and not so popular. I believe that there are many countries in Europe that stimulate additional culture and humanitarian activities with such an institution. The countries of France, Germany, Italy, Belgium and Denmark are very famous in this area. We know that Germany behaves with almost 100 sub-laws in this area, which quite precisely define sponsors, that France has even stimulated an additional investment circle in the field of culture with such sub-laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Končan Darko, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u225	Your Honor, Mrs. Chernuglieva. I'm a little surprised. In fact, there are a number of tax reliefs and other incentives in the current tax laws, which thus attach to this issue of yours that Slovenia joins other countries in Europe, and it is also right for everyone else to understand what this is about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u226	I'm asking the Members to calm down a bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u227	If in two, three words, I can draw a distinction between donorism and sponsorship. [[...]] In the case of donations, it is a unilateral act of the donor of the amount of money, anything else, services, material contributions made to another person, to society, to an organisation designated for these purposes by law. This unilateral act does not concern any tax traffic, for example, under the value added tax law, because this is, of course, regulated only in this part, so on with respect to income or, in relation to corporate income tax. But as far as sponsorship is concerned, it's a little different. This is often blurred in practice. In sponsoring, however, the bilateral act between the donor and the donor is, of course, also a gift to something like a counterservice, most often in the form of promotion, advertising. There are also cultural societies, different, charitable, in this direction, of course, providing certain advertising services. Thus, if it is carried out, it is sponsored by an event, another action, the activity of such societies, which are explicitly mentioned, then, of course, it can become taxable traffic under the value added tax law. This is, of course, provided that the recipient of these funds is the one who does the opposite of the service as an advertisement, he is a taxable person. This is most often because some more successful societies, cultural organisations and so on, if they are very successful, such as as fundraisers, quickly exceed the threshold of five million tolars, as they must be registered for such purposes as VAT debtors and, of course, in this case they must present the bill to the sponsor for this advertising service. On the contrary, the funds that the sponsor gave to the taxable person, who, of course, charged him VAT, represent to him, i.e. costs or tax-recognised advertising expenditure. It is also necessary to select material arguments, evidence that the advertising service was indeed concerned. This is also regulated by other rules. Medecinity is something like donorism, so I don't think there's much more here to explain. In particular, the Income Act allows the following tax law to enable natural persons who donate certain funds for these purposes, in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 7, to reduce this income base by a total of not more than 3% of the total or total tax base of the taxable person. And since I have already mentioned the Law on Taxation on the Profit of Legal Persons, this also allows legal persons - not only natural persons under the Income Act, but also legal persons - to donate for such purposes, i.e. to be considered fit for these special purposes, which are explicitly stated in the law, that these expenditure is recognised as tax-recognised expenditure of no more than 0,3 total revenue created, the entire turnover of the realisation of the legal person in the existing fiscal year. It is therefore necessary to say here that I do not see any significant differences between Slovenia and other countries that would essentially block this kind of activity. We can only talk about heights, about rates - I also wrote certain professional articles on this topic a while ago and when I was looking at just the other European countries, I saw that, say, Germany and the others have nothing more encouraging of these facilities, so I think that in the Slovenian tax system, these facilitations are large enough. However, if we are to adopt the new tax legislation provided for this year, the Income Act, the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, together we will decide that this should be significantly more earmarked and, of course, give up some other fiscal revenue, which is, of course, a matter of debate and debate in this National Assembly later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for such a comprehensive response. I believe that, in my question raised, I have not in any way doubted that we would not have this area very well regulated and in accordance with European legislation. However, I asked whether we are planning further stimulating upgrades to sub-legislative acts, in particular regulations that might further strengthen this area. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Instead of Mr Paul Rupar, the question will be raised by the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear government officials, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I am asking the Minister of Economy about the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. By adopting a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava and the concession granted, formal conditions have been created for a very important energy project in the Republic of Slovenia, from which Posavje, where this project will be implemented, a lot of promise. In order for this project to actually come to life, or in order to bring this project and the implementation of the law, the former Government and former Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Zagozhen, have provided substantial resources with the relevant conclusions. I ask the Minister of Economy: Will the new government also implement the law and support the project? If the new government changes the proposal to provide funds for the start of the construction of the first hydropower plants, this is the Bosniak hydropower plant, in early 2001, as far as this changes: Does it have alternative solutions in this case and what are they? And a third question. Does the new government intend to change the dynamics of the implementation or construction of the Sava power plants, and what will be the dynamics? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Given that it is likely that this part of the Ministry of Environment and Space will take over, and that I am participating in the commissions that the government has also appointed to implement this law, it seems most appropriate to respond in this way, to say that the government has already appointed a commission to evaluate the investment programme; that the government has found that one of the conditions of this law is also one of the conditions of this law, of course, that the investment programme, which the concessionaire is supposed to deliver, if it is offered or signed with it, is the concession contract; that this investment programme will not be assessed only for the first power plant, but that it will also be given an evaluation of the feasibility of the programme, as foreseen by the law, and as the concessionaire has, of course, presented its vision for the whole of the Sava network and, of course, at this time, the government will not think about any promotion of the deadlines and hopes that it will keep up with those deadlines foreseen by the law for each stage of the next five power plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you for the word or additional question; otherwise I am not interested, it is also concrete with the conclusions or actions of the Minister in terms of providing funds for the start of the construction of the first power plant. Are these conclusions the same as before? My question is also addressed to the Minister for Environment and Space and concerns the construction or continuation of the construction of high-water embankments on Sava and Sotla in the Brežica municipality, in particular in Dobovska Polje. For if the pace of construction is as before, we will not have a protected area for at least 30 years. That's too long if we know what damage floods cause. The fact is that part of the embankment in the Dobovsko field has already been built and the embankment is not complete and should be connected with the already built embankment in neighbouring Croatia, that is to say, this embankment should be concluded. I believe that the country's approach to the construction of these embankments is incorrect, partial and allows and provides only partial solutions at the most critical points, and thus does not fully address this area, so in the three unbuilt dikes in the Dobovsko Field it appears there as a detour where the water spills and thus achieves even more power. I believe that, of course, this missing embankment must be completed simultaneously on both banks of the river and thus also allow the people of the country to carry out the construction of the cleaning plant and, of course, the sewage network in this area. I ask the Minister of the Environment or the representative of the government: Does the Republic of Slovenia have a plan for the construction of high-water embankments on critical rivers, particularly on the Sava River; is the programme time-bound? I also want to know when the locals - or locals in Brežice - can expect the completion of a high-water embankment in their local community, which would, of course, prevent further annual floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer, please? Here you go, mag. Tauzes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u237	Now, as far as Posavia is concerned, the law is, of course, quite clear or as far as the lower Sava is concerned, including high-water embankments, and I do not know at this moment whether this high-water inscription that you have listed is, of course, integrated into the construction of water management infrastructure within the Sava power plants, or whether it is a project that is independent of the construction of the Sava power plants. I don't have that information. A complete project? Then, of course, this will be carried out according to the programme, when, of course, that power plant in Brežica comes into line. I don't know. I don't have any information about this. [[...]] We'll give you a written answer. But as for the first question, it's infrastructure. Of course, the law provides for the sharing of infrastructure or state costs and, of course, these costs, which are linked to the exploitation of water potential itself. The concessionaire presented a financial structure to the government, which was indeed somehow conceived during the time of Mr Bayuk's government, and this financial structure will first, of course, be checked through the investment programme and determined how feasible it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to ministers, government representatives and colleagues and fellow Members. My question is for the Ministry of Defense. On 13 October, the Ribnica municipality and the Ministry of Defence signed an agreement stipulating that by 13 November the road would open through the Ribnica barracks. The opening of this road would relieve the Ribnica centre and allow for significantly easier accessibility and development of the trade zone created after the purchase of military land and hangars in this part of the barracks. This opening didn't happen. However, I believe that the State of Slovenia should respect the agreements signed by its most visible representatives, these are ministers. I also do not understand the fact that, more than three months after the agreement was signed, it was not possible to draw up a sketch of the facility’s insurance or by which the insurance would be carried out. Currently, this facility is almost empty and unsuspecting in Ribnica, which is this barracks, secured almost better than the Ministry of Defence and the main headquarters of the Slovenian Army. I wonder why, despite the many, especially recently, oral urgents, it has not been possible to open a road through a barracks in Ribnica? I wonder when the facility security plan will be developed? When will the facility be physically secured? I wonder when the open road will be through the barracks in Ribnica for the purposes of civilian traffic? And I also want to know what the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces has in mind with the remaining surfaces and facilities, this is with the failed buildings of the former refugee centre, and with some 35,000 square metres of surfaces, which are now poorly maintained but not necessarily maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Time will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u241	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll try to give you a partial answer. I'd like to apologize to the Minister, who was here until 6 p.m. I do not personally cover this area, so I could not provide very accurate information in this regard. I would say, however, that Mr Minister has already made it very clear at his first press conference that we have taken seriously all the real estate issues that we have, because in fact some things are very messy and need to be regulated. The Ministry has taken a serious decision in this direction that we will try to resolve these things in the interests of the Ministry of Defence and all local communities where it is. As far as opening the road through Ribnica is concerned, I would not hope to respond and take advantage of the opportunity to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me another question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. They will also receive the text: Franc Sušnik, Branko Kelemina, Franc Čebulj, France Tsukjati and Janez Cimperman. I give my word to Mr. Franco Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u243	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers and other ministers present! Several times today, there has already been a debate around agriculture on the difficult situation caused by the drought in our agriculture in 2000 and which, last but not least, has been fuelled by a noria with BSE and mad cows. That is why, Minister Booth, I would ask you: How is the payment of unpaid subsidies? I have already heard and received assurances from your mouth that subsidies will be paid by the end of 2000, but today, on 25 January 2001, we are meeting with the fact that the subsidies are still unpaid. I think that this is a bad sign for agriculture, that this is a sign of a poor reflection of the current government's concern to remedy the already critical agricultural situation. Once again, the drought, the crazy cows, and now the non-payment of subsidies -- that, I think, is a little too much. I'm asking the government a second question. During this term, Drnovska appointed several ministers to the supervisory boards of companies and funds of which he is the majority owner. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of this fact: Is such appointment in accordance with the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity? The law provides that, during the term of office, a professional official shall not engage in any gainful activity for private purposes which may affect the objective or external effects of the independent performance of the function. The legal service at the time of the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk had a negative opinion on this issue and therefore did not appoint any minister to the supervisory board of any of the companies or funds. I also ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: How many ministers have the status of members in the Supervisory Council and which are these ministers and where do they perform their supervisory function? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree with the poor reflection of the current government's concerns about what you mentioned. For the first time, in these introductions of new European comparable payments per hectare and per animal, which we introduced for the first time in 2000, I myself worked for about three and a half years. The fact is that we introduced them for the first time last year; the fact is that we completely managed to implement them in some way - that is, process the 63 000 applications that came in. It took about seven months. And the fact is, within the time limit set by the Ministry of Finance for all consumers, we have managed to process all applications, properly equip them and also amend them to the last form, which means payment order. This means: all that was and what was acquired as a role and what was considered a legitimate role is the commitment of the State, that country, to be paid in full. We are talking about about about 11 billion Slovenian tolars, of which 8.8 billion 600 million were paid up to three days ago, since I have the relevant data. That is, the majority in November and December, about 450 million in January. There's another two billion 450 million unpaid and something like that. In agreement with the Minister of Finance, it is practically promised that all these payments will be paid by, or if we are specific, the last day of January. This is very important because this means the burden of the budget in 2000 and not the burden of the budget in 2001, which would make a very unpredictable forecast for financial measures in the year coming, because of the budgetary problems in the country of Slovenia, really encounter an insurmountable situation. This means that I personally account and such an agreement is that this amount, if only the liquidity option, should be paid31. or 30 January of that year. This means: in this way, we would pay in full all the subsidies they were eligible for in the burden of the 2000 budget. This means that the only reason why these 2 billion 400 million have not yet been paid is the liquidity order by which the obligations of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and nothing else are paid. Not a crime, not an unmade business, but a business that waits for it to come to order on a regular basis. And I hope, and I believe, that's the promise that it will be at the expense of budget 2000.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The second part of the question will be answered by Prime Minister General Mirko Bandelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u247	Thank you very much. It is not true that the government of Dr. Bayuk would accept the view that ministers should not be in the supervisory boards of public funds. On the contrary! This practice was changed during the time of the government of Dr. Bayuk. At that time, the Law on Public Funds was passed, and on the basis of this Act, the government of Dr. Andrej Bajuk issued sub-laws setting out for each of the funds according to the model, who and how the supervisory boards of these public funds are composed. All the supervisory councils are headed by the Presidents of the District Ministers and, of course, the Government, which took up the mandate on 1 December, could not have reacted differently here than to respect the rules. However, I can argue that the government of Dr. Janez Drnovšk has not appointed any minister to any supervisory board or board of economic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. On 21.12.2000, on the proposal of the Under-Secretary of State, Dr Robert Golob, who, inter alia, did not wish to become Secretary of State for personal reasons because of his under-remuneration there, adopted a regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the manner in which the economic public service for electricity transmission and the public service for the operation of the transmission network, which entered into force in 3012.2000, by which ELESU prohibited any trade in electricity. This measure has caused significant economic damage as the trading system has literally been blocked. The electricity from the NEK, which you sold almost two years ago - according to the previous and previous government - on the daily market at an average price of 2.62 tolars per kilohour, and before the new year ELES was able to sell this electricity in the long term at a price of 8.55 for a kilohour, correcting Mr Janša's remarks about different prices in his performance. In short, I believe that this is probably the worst-case crime, and I expect the relevant law enforcement authorities to be involved. But the question is the following to the government. What ministry is now responsible for the field of energy? By what decision or regulation has the government appointed another person to sell electricity surpluses, at what price, and to whom are the excess electricity sold today from the nuclear power plant and other facilities? I have another question. Slovenia, and thus the government, is working in all areas of its activities to align itself with the conditions and conditions of the European community, for example. in the area of the achievement of all European standards, quality, productivity and European prices, etc. In all areas, then, there is no talk of equalisation with the EU, except in the area of workers' salaries in the labour-intensive sectors. I hope and believe that this government knows that thousands of workers in these activities receive a minimum wage, that is 60,000 or less a month, and that because of such a decade-long situation, many Slovenian families are at risk and that many are on the verge of despair and poverty. In addition to this tragedy, the situation from day to day is more difficult as thousands of jobs are at risk. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Does the government intend to take a comprehensive approach to solving individual labour intensive industries or to resolve matters in a partial manner? [[For example, such as Pekko and others]] ? Does the government have programmes to effectively improve the living conditions of non-social workers but are in a working relationship? What systemic measures are envisaged to improve this situation? How much funding is provided for these purposes by sector [[For example, textiles, footwear and other textiles]] in 2001 and how much planned for the future? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The question is made up of two parts. Who will answer, please? Mag. Igor Strmnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u251	Given the scope of the questions raised and their questions, I think that there is considerable weight, because these are key strategic questions, I suggest that you answer your questions in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Are there any more? Is there another question? [[It's not.]] Thank you. I give the floor to the Member of Parliament, France, on Chebul. He's not here. I give my word to Mr. Ambassador Frances Cuckati.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Recently, or before the new year, we received a letter or report from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where it follows in its review of its activities, which important laws or whose important decisions have not yet seen the light of the Council, or which the legislator has not yet responded to. I will only mention some of these: the exercise of rights of compensation under the law on the correction of injustices. The deadline for the legislator to resolve this is July 1999. The Telecommunications Act, as far as the rights of those who invested are concerned, i.e. individual investors in the public telecommunications network, deadline - July 2000. Furthermore, the rights of workers in the exercise or cooperation of business management, from June 2000 to June 2000. Income Act to be aligned with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, October 1999. The Social Act, where the social security of Slovenian citizens is to be ensured, deadline - August 1999. Let me just say one more thing. That is, it is very interesting that for several years - several years, I stress - there is also a law on victims of war violence, where the rights of victims of war violence to recover war damage not regulated by special law and the law on income for non-exempt taxation of amounts which the parent must devote to the survival of his children in terms of living minimum. They both had a deadline - one May 1997, the other November 1997. Why am I mentioning these? Because a brief analysis of these laws or those requirements of the Constitutional Court shows that 90% of the requests that this government has not responded to - "this government", I think in the previous term - have not responded, have not touched them, have been waiting for four or five years. Most of these requirements are limited to the rights of the individual. In particular, it is the law on the correction of injustices, the law on victims of war violence, the law on income with regard to many families, families with many children. That is why I ask the question, of course, to the one who is responsible - and according to the report of the Constitutional Court, this situation is the responsibility of the Government, which is the bill-maker and not so much the assembly. I'm asking the next question. While this government can quickly and well ensure the consolidation of its power and the protection of its capital, it obviously does not find time to take care of the rights of an ordinary citizen, as follows from these documents, I ask: Why does the government not, after several years and after repeated warnings from the Constitutional Court, seek to eliminate those injustices that affect workers, craftsmen and, above all, families with more children and victims of war violence who do not have the status of a NOB fighter? Will and how will this government demonstrate in this mandate any more will to ensure the constitutional rights of certain layers not to say second-class citizens?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Bandelj, Secretary-General of the Government, will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Certainly, legislation that is inconsistent with the Constitution is not a beautiful face of the rule of law. It is true, of course, that a series of excuses can be found, but I will not seek them, because I think this task must be fulfilled. That is why I will also not state the fact that sometimes the National Assembly is overloaded, that some of these rules, which you have just mentioned, are also waiting here for the agenda. Nor will I point to the fact that, in the meantime, another government has been doing its job for six months and has failed to do so, but the task is a great deal. However, I can assure you that one of the priorities of the government's work is certainly to harmonise the rules currently in force with the law in force and with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Next week the government will consider and, I hope, also adopt a work programme for this year, which we will also send to you for information in the National Assembly. This programme will show exactly when the Government intends and by what procedures to remedy these inconsistencies arising from the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask again? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. The last one has the floor, Mr Janez Cimperman.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Since I am the last, my question will be brief, and I am devoting it to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, concerning the privatisation of the teaching workshops of the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia. I ask: Did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cancel all the harmful contracts in Ljubljana regarding the privatisation of the study workshops of the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia on Vojkova Street and the whole matter returned to its original place before 24.9.1992? Also: Did the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Sport form an expert group to investigate the whole matter and give her instructions on how to proceed with education, training and employment and the continuation of professional rehabilitation of deaf and severely deaf people? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Vlado Dimovski will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u259	Full information on this first question, which was a short one, requires a very long answer if we are to make a practical history of what was going on. I also have before me the documentation of some of this work, which you asked. Of course, there are quite a few transformations of this company, where there are practically more companies in the current composition. Of course, the key issue with which we started to solve this problem is the issue of credit obtained from one of the state institutions, namely the SRD, and the admission of mortgages. As a result, unless we have information on this work, what is actually going on and whether this servicing of this loan is actually going on or going on, we cannot really be involved in resolving this issue. That would be for a while. The procedure to be used in this case is, of course, based on some of the audits that have been carried out in the last year and which, I would say, have been determined in some places without doubt, and we will, of course, step up after them, and in some places require further analyses as far as these data have been available to us and we will, of course, require further clarifications. To the extent that this short answer is satisfactory, however, if you want to be able to have a practical longer history, which has a lot of these annexes and documents, of course, which will show all the complexity of the problem, which is, of course, in short, with one cut, in our opinion, impossible because it is a disability company in one part, which is subject to special laws or at least in some part a special law, and it is, of course, difficult to react in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-02.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Would you like another question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, I thank the representatives of the Government for the answers given. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the second item - the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint three candidates for the European Court of Human Rights judge. We're gonna skip point four because there's an absent billmaker. I wish everyone a good night.
