ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, please take their seats. We will proceed with the work of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the continuation of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone! Above all, at the same time, I ask you to take your seats. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following colleagues: Franz Kangler, Andrej Fabjan, Villa Trofenik and Yuri Malovre. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. 49 Members and Members are present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are also invited to attend today's meeting, which I welcome very much. For today's 9th session, we have two points left, 9 and 37. First, we're going to proceed to or to Treatment 9. Agenda items, this is on the third defensive proposal of the civil servant of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 8th meeting, the National Assembly held a vote on the amendments tabled to the draft Rules of Procedure and on the harmonisation amendments of the drafters, and then referred the item to one of the future meetings under Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Since individual harmonisation amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure have not been adopted, the Rules of Procedure Commission has met as its parent working body and has drawn up harmonisation amendments. I'm asking the representative of the mother laborer, does he want a word? Does he? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure Commission, at its 3rd extraordinary meeting and at its next meeting, considered or decided first whether or not to adopt or formulate the harmonisation amendments at all and to refer them to the National Assembly, or even to withdraw from this act. Before this meeting, the Commission also convened a meeting with the working group of the Rules of Procedure Commission, composed of external legal experts, attended by the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. At the meeting of the Commission, after discussion, where we have taken into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, we have also been informed of the position of the working group of the Commission on Rules of Procedure, when dealing with these two reports or decisions, or whether we approach them or not, there have been different opinions. Some members of the Commission felt that the Rules of Procedure Commission could no longer table harmonisation amendments, as the chairman of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly had already announced the transition to a full vote on the draft act. Thus, at that stage of the procedure only a full decision on the act is possible. This was the opinion of the members of the business commission. However, other members of the Commission considered that the Rules of Procedure Commission could also be involved in the process at this stage, proposing its harmonisation amendments and, at the same time, adopting the interpretation of Article 198 at the same time. It was also pointed out that, at the stage when a full vote on the act had already been announced at the meeting of the National Assembly, this act had not been carried out, nor had any action been taken in the direction of the full vote on the act been initiated, the State Assembly has not yet followed the principle of strictness. In any event, it is essential to adopt harmonised acts and thereby ensure the legal certainty of the entities. The practice so far has also gone towards the possibility that one of the authorised applicants could also propose harmonisation amendments at this stage of the procedure and have been voted by the National Assembly and then adopted by a coordinated proposal for an act. In view of the debate in the Rules of Procedure Commission, a conclusion was adopted after the discussion. The Rules of Procedure Commission shall, as one of the authorised candidates in the phase when only one authorised proposer has been tabled, not be fully accepted, in accordance with Article 198 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and shall propose its harmonisation amendments. Following this decision, we have also adopted the amendments you have in your review, namely the harmonisation amendments. In doing so, I would like to point out that in deciding on the harmonisation amendments, the content of the harmonisation amendments is that the members of the opposition parties did not participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? There is no discussion on the content of the amendments. There's a possible explanation for the voice. In this regard, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution, the harmonisation amendment will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments. Yes, please. Comrade Companion, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Before we go to the vote, I would request a 30-minute recess on behalf of the parliamentary group and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u5	How much?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u6	30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u7	30 minutes. I am also asking other parliamentary groups whether this is enough time for consultation. I'm taking a 30-minute break. At 10.40 a.m., we'll get back to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u8	We will continue with the 9th item of the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Continue with the 9th item of the agenda. First, we find out the presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence in the hall! 65 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Mr Podobnik requested a recess on behalf of the Group of Members. He wants to communicate his views? Please. My friend Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members has thoroughly examined the current situation in the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. Since there is no clear solution to any doubt in the procedure, there is no guarantee that the harmonisation amendments could be supported. If the harmonisation amendments do not receive support, however, the Group expects that the new proposal, on the basis of all the work that has been put forward, will only understand the need to complement the new proposal with all the positive proposals that have been submitted at this last stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Comrade Vizjak, do you have a procedural procedure? Explanation of voice. First of all, my friend Peterle has it because he asked for it in front of you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Almost once this assembly came into such a mess as now that we are somewhere between the 6th and 7th stages of the procedure and when it could have happened that the final phase would have replaced all the previous ones, so to speak. Our Group of Members has already said that it sees no possibility of additional substantive coordination and has not participated in the work in this respect. I think that the only legal thing is that the procedure that has been interrupted in an unusual way is to conclude and that it follows a procedure that has already been initiated when a new proposal by the Rules of Procedure was tabled by Mr Anderlich. I will vote against the harmonisation amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. A colleague of mags. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I would like to state the position of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. In the Social Democratic Party, we do not want to see the shadow of a breach of the Rules of Procedure fall on the procedure for the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. We have always warned about this and also wanted appropriate interpretations and assurances. The answers were vague, ambiguous and also a business commission did not adopt a clear interpretation of Article 198 which could also clear up these doubts in the future. We therefore believe that it is not in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted, that we are going to a new round of harmonisation amendments. Therefore, we cannot accept such a way of dealing with problems, but in particular not a new coordination and a new opening of the issues already adopted, such as the college's public meeting and the like. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, of course, we will not support any harmonisation amendment, nor will we fully support the Rules of Procedure. It is accompanied by years of work, but I think there is a very controversial policy of coordination and the provision of a two-thirds majority. At the same time, we are aware in the Social Democratic Party that the existing rules of procedure have some weaknesses, particularly regarding the economy and rationality of work. In particular, it does not oblige the proposers, especially the government, to work properly and properly towards the National Assembly, so that the legislative process can be carried out here effectively. We therefore support all the proposed new solutions to the work of the college - those we have just agreed on - that go in terms of economics and rationality. Therefore, in our party, all readiness and support is to build on agreed new rules of procedure in this respect, it is said, on the rationality of the work of the National Assembly. That is why this can also be an answer to Mr Rokavac, who has somehow indicated these doubts as to whether he is willing to work. On our part, there is every readiness for such a rule of procedure, which will address some of the shortcomings that the current Rules of Procedure entail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u14	Just to clarify, we are ahead of the vote on the harmonisation amendment to Articles 21 and 100; we are now giving explanations of vote. In order - I see everyone who has applied - first, colleague Anderlič, behind him colleague Potrč. And then I saw another hand here in front of my colleague Pecett, but I didn't remember whose -- oh, please. My friend Anderlich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u15	I don't have an explanation for the voice, but procedurally, but of course, you've usually overlooked and overheard. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like a half hour's rest for further consultation before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u16	Now, for the last time, I'm going to ask all the parliamentary groups whether they want to have any more advice, and then I'm not going to give it to them again before the decision is made. That's the last half-hour we've been giving for counseling. I think that's right - half an hour we've had - I think that's a fair deal. Please, I'm going to order a recess by 11:20. Thank you very much. At 11:20, we continue to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u17	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We'll continue with the 9th stop. Once again, I ask all Members and Members to come to the Chamber, we will continue our work. I'm asking for some patience. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We'll continue the session. First, we need to find out if there's a presence in the hall. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 53 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Would you like a word, colleague Anderlich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u18	We discussed the situation in the House of Liberal Democracy and undisputedly concluded that what has been done so far is a prepared harmonisation amendment, in line with what the Secretariat believes. We can also vote in favour of the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u19	The next one has the word of colleague Potrč, behind him colleague Sok and colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Much work has been done to prepare the new Rules of Procedure. Even after interviews in the National Assembly, as well as in the Internal Assembly, it is found that in fact the vast majority of the rules of procedure are harmonised and also for more than two-thirds of the Members and Members of Parliament. That is why, on my part, I would say, it is normal for us to try to bring the procedure for adopting the Rules of Procedure to an end once. In our views, we have proposed, we have been of the opinion that, on the questions raised by the procedure, there should be clear professional positions and that this time, regardless of personal views, we will not comment on and take into account the professional opinions and opinions given. We have received three questions that seem to us to be essential, indisputably clear points of view. Firstly, that the new harmonisation amendment, given by the Rules of Procedure Commission, is possible and does not constitute a breach of procedure. Secondly, in order that it would be wrong to violate the procedure, and in particular to abuse the Rules of Procedure, even though this term is not used, if it were to allow the harmonisation amendments to be repeated in the event of the non-adoption of this amendment, I would say, in the long run, to simplify and that this would not be possible. Thirdly, we have received a clear opinion that it is wrong for the National Assembly to adopt a clearly uncoordinated act on the basis of warnings given by the Secretariat. These are the three starting points that have been given us regarding the procedure. Personally, I will also vote in accordance with this position of unbridled conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I already raised my hand at the beginning, and you didn't notice me. I would like to draw attention to my assessment of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, because liberal democracy has already taken advantage of this point and you have given it another break today. So once again, I would like to point out that we are still in the voting phase, that the President's Rules of Procedure have already put the vote to the vote. That's why I don't know why it's another break. But good, that's over now. As far as our votes are concerned, the New Slovenia Group, as has been said several times, we have been involved in the adoption of this Rules of Procedure. It was a wish to reach a policy that would favour both the position and the opposition. We have always opposed the solutions you have proposed regarding the decision-making in the College of the President of the National Assembly. This harmonisation amendment has also been rejected. It is illogical to try a new harmonisation amendment in the fourth, this time by the Committee on Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This decision is disputed for us. We have warned several times that it is a matter of playing the existing rules of procedure, and therefore we think that we should vote on the Rules of Procedure as a whole, because the Rules of Procedure have already been put to the vote. For this reason, we will also vote against it today, but we are aware that the National Assembly must take a thorough approach to the preparation and resolution of this problem and, of course, we are prepared to participate in the preparation of the new Rules of Procedure, which we have already agreed on in many ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. My colleague Peca, my friend Barovic, is the last person on my list.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u24	Respectable present. It would make sense, or political wisdom, for those of you who have made these changes years ago to study their future, at this moment, the past path. In order to secure at the beginning of this campaign of yours the support that is necessary for this act. Meaningful wisdom, or political wisdom, is especially due to the fact that the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, have become an explicit political act. This can also be seen through the way in which certain parliamentary groups and professional services are dealt with and the way in which certain groups are involved. I do not think there is a matter that we would not have experienced in the entire life-cycle of this Rules of Procedure. There were threats. The Secretariat has publicly stood up or demonstrated its disrespect for the legal branch of action, bluffed, as has the majority of other Members. I don't think there's a Member today who wouldn't know how to vote at this point. Nor is it the content of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's basically a political dictatorship. It is a political dictatorship of those who are now in power and who, through some visions, are seen in power, even in the coming years or in the mandates of the National Assembly. I am sure that the elections, that is, the activity that sets out the new composition of the National Assembly, will not always carry the same mirror as it does today, and that in a few years' time, perhaps in the new mandate, you will no longer like this rule of procedure. We are convinced that the content of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, namely the new Rules of Procedure, violates all those principles and the provisions that enforce democracy in this house. This means discussing, deciding and participating in individual decisions and proposals. In an elegant way, you try to prevent the minority or those who blindly do not support you to participate in our own procedure. Although I said it in a nice way, it should be pointed out that in a very primitive way. In fact, you are incapable of mastering all this majority you have of this national assembly. That's why you're trying, even black and white, to change that. I think that things could be done better, more correct and, above all, more responsibly. Today, I think that all of you who have pushed so much for this State Assembly Rules of Procedure, which this National Assembly and its working bodies have stood so long as to deal solely with these matters, should bear the responsibility within themselves. That you have deprived this country of a number of other laws, which at this time, under these conditions, where Slovenia and this national assembly are, were much more important than whether Mr Pahor and Mr Anderlič would be able to manage the College and thus the National Assembly. I think you're forgetting the basic purpose of democracy, that is to meet or face different opinions and try to give the best for this country from here. I think your fame has gone too far, but that's another area and I'm going to stick to the explanation of my vote. I will vote against all the harmonisation amendments and against the rules of procedure in full. When you meet again with a proposal or your wishes for a dictatorship in this house, I advise you to prepare a little bit better at first than you did in recent history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. My friend Barovic now has the floor, followed by his colleague Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Sašo Peče, of our Slovenian national party, spoke about the content, and I will not speak in explanation of the content at all, because I do not recognise the content here today in this Parliament. I do not recognise it because we have taken advantage of all the business options and are in the voting phase today. This is so if you allow the metaphor, today they are starting in the ruling coalition as if the Slovenian football team, because this is popular today, the game in Romania has lost and I would say that this game is not valid, we will play another. No, the rules are clear! We have sent you, Mr President, a letter with some of the Members' signatures that we are in the voting phase. Please respect the existing rules of procedure. At the next meeting, on Wednesday next week, we are very happy to include in the first place the rules of procedure already tabled by Mr Anderlič. However, today and here we are alone and only in the voting phase. And all of my "against" today will be against the way we work, against the irregularities that are happening, and let the Slovenian public know it, and they will be against the reception at the end, because I only recognize this phase. I am sorry to mention once again Cankar and Hlapce, his legitimate and legal right - our legitimate right to seek morale and our legal right to respect the existing rules of procedure. Of course, there is a legal right on the part of the rulers to have power and to do what they want. That is why, once again, my "against" will be against irregularities and the only right thing I will do when I press the "against" vote in the existing Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u27	Comrade Brenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I accept the content of the Rules of Procedure, including the harmonisation amendment we have on the benches, and I strongly believe that this content of the Member's role is narrowing somewhat, as some of us have already felt well when adopting the budget in the process of adoption, including the fact that Article 179 still retains a strong taste of constitutional dispute. However, the procedure by which the harmonisation amendment was prepared for this content and to this decision, as we have today, is not based on the act on which this Rules of Procedure is adopted, on the present Rules of Procedure, which should be an example of the application of rules of procedure when we adopt new rules on the basis of these Rules of Procedure. This has probably also been the case because of what has proved to be the case throughout the adoption procedure: the oversatisfaction of the self-sufficiency of some key actors in the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, and also perhaps a lack of decisive approach after the completion of the Rules of Procedure procedure and perhaps a lack of specific performances of the Secretariat, on the basis of which this harmonisation amendment, of course, arose. As I firmly believe that such an adopted Rules of Procedure will carry with them a backpack that will become increasingly difficult at any time of conflict in this National Assembly, I will not support this harmonisation amendment. I am sure that if this amendment had received support, almost unanimously, of this national assembly, this amendment would have a different weight, even though its acceptance is highly controversial in business. However, since it is as it is, I think it is wise that this amendment does not receive support and is also additionally wise for the State Assembly to make a conscious decision and then, at the first regular meeting of the National Assembly, enter into the consideration of the Rules of Procedure by means of a rapid procedure. I think we can all be satisfied that this Rules of Procedure will have a purely traveller if so adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-14-SDZ3-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you. This concludes the discussion before deciding on the harmonisation amendment to Articles 21 and 100. We're moving to the vote. A two-thirds majority is required. I warn everyone that you are paying attention to the vote. At the vote, I give the harmonisation amendment to Articles 21 and 100. Let's vote! 86 colleagues and colleagues are present. 56 voted in favour and 30 against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Articles 21 and 100 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 25. I'm putting him to the vote. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! 86 Members and Members are present. 56 of them were in, 30 against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment did not receive the necessary support. We move on to the third decision on the amendment to Article 106 and the title. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[Cell phone advertising.]] Please make sure the phones don't interfere with the decision. 87 colleagues and colleagues were present, 57 voted in favour, 30 against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has also not received the necessary support. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 134. There are 84 Members and Members present, 55 colleagues and colleagues voted against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing this amendment didn't get the required majority either. We are moving on to the fifth vote, namely the amendment to Article 135. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 57 for, 31 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the fifth harmonisation amendment didn't get any support either. We are now voting on the last, sixth amendment to Article 179. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 56 of whom voted in favour, 31 against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has not been adopted either. We have thus exhausted the vote on the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the draft Rules of Procedure as a whole. We're voting. There were 87 colleagues and colleagues present, 44 for whom there were 42 against. [[It was 44.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed Rules of Procedure are not adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 37. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. You have received the proposals of the Judicial Council and the opinion of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals of the Judicial Council on the election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted six motions for election to the Assembly of State for judicial office at the courts of the four District Judges and the District Judge at the District Courts in Maribor, Kranj, Radovljica, Ljubljana and Slovenj Gradec and the Judges for the Offences of the Judge for the Offences of Žalec. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. It submitted a report on the proposals to the assembly. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask whether the representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word, and at the same time I propose that we discuss all the proposals of the Judicial Council together. [[It's not a big deal.]] Do Members and Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since there is no application and there is no debate, we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Petar Podgorevec to the judicial office of the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 68 Members and Members present. 58 were in favour, 1 was in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Ivanka Demšar Potočnik to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 56 supported the proposal, 2 opposed it. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Kejjar to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Radovljica. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. There were 55 for, two for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Barbka Zupan Cimperman to the judicial office of Judge for Offences before Judge Žalec. We're voting. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present. 58 were in and 1 was in. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The proposed decision is therefore adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Dejana Fekonja to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. There were 55 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am also putting to the vote the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Michaela Lieutenant in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. I note that 65 colleagues and colleagues are present and that 53 of the proposed decree supported them, 1 opposed him. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues! We have thus exhausted all the obligations we have set ourselves with the agenda for the 9th session. Thank you for your cooperation. I also want to continue a pleasant day, and probably on behalf of everyone, all the happiness and courage of our boys today in Romania. Thank you.
