ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite all those who are not yet in the Chamber to come and allow the start of the 11th extraordinary session, which will be devoted to the state budget, for two years, for 2002 and 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a feeling that there are enough colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber that the National Assembly can conclude and start making decisions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, I wish everyone a good day, with the desire to work successfully at the 11th session, which we will soon begin. I'm going to ask you very politely and kindly for peace in the hall. I begin the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following colleagues: colleague Štemberger until 16:00 p.m., colleague Janša, Vnučec, Rupar, colleague Zalokar-Orazem, colleague Merlo for the beginning of the meeting, also for the beginning of the meeting of his colleague Celigoj and colleague Vice-President Brejc from 3 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. If the cards are inserted, please press the quorum key to be able to detect presence in the hall. May I have some peace, please? We're starting a session. There are 55 Members of the National Assembly present in the Chamber. That's how this one's concluded and he can make decisions. I invited representatives of the government, ministers and ministers to the meeting. I welcome those who are already with us, and I invite the others to join us further. We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th extraordinary meeting. You received the draft agenda by reference to 23 November. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll get to the retreat first. I have not received any motions for withdrawal, unless someone wishes to make such a proposal now. I don't see any motive for that. This way we can move on to proposals to expand the agenda. Anyone want a word about that? I'm guessing there's no one. Therefore, the National Assembly may move to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws following a rapid procedure. Mr Pucko, a fellow Member of the Parliament, submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The National Assembly proposes to adopt it in a swift manner. Does Comrade Pucka want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur or the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Do government representatives want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? They want to. Please. Before I give you my word, I ask for peace in the hall. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I propose that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act be dealt with on a regular basis rather than as presented in the draft agenda. The reasons are clear. These are very major changes in this law, which have a significant impact on the financial and substantive material area of matter covered by it. I therefore propose that this law be dealt with on a regular basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Comrade Drobnic of the New Slovenia Group suggests that, contrary to the proposal of the parent working body and the applicant, colleague Puck, we do not adopt the law by means of a rapid procedure. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, does the proposer wish to explain this proposal now? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We will vote on this proposal. We vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. 69 Members and Members are present at the Chamber. 50 voted in favour of such a proposal, 16 opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and 2003. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Would a government representative like a word on this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yes, Comrade Mag. Visak on behalf of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Yes, thank you very much. I would only mention this fact that the mother's working body has not yet said anything about this matter. This means, and I also ask you whether this has also created formal conditions for us to vote on the procedure today and, of course, we are also going over this procedural issue in advance to define the working body of the mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u5	If I may give you a procedural explanation. The fact that the mother's working body is not defined by such a proposal is not a procedural obstacle to the decision of the national assembly. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? I guess not. Then we move on to decision-making. Does the government want a word about this before making a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 50 supported such a proposal, 14 opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a shorter procedure. Ambassador Jelko Kacin submitted a proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the excise law for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the proposer want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal for the adoption of that law by means of a reduced procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups whether they wish to speak on this proposal. I guess not. That is why I conclude this debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We are voting on this proposal. 69 colleagues and colleagues are present. 53 supported them, 13 opposed him. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This allows us to move on to a decision on the agenda for the session that begins today. You received the agenda by reference. We have also adopted some amendments and additions. Anyone want a word before I put a motion to the vote? [[No, no, ……]] Then I propose that we vote on the draft agenda as a whole. We're voting. 71 colleagues and colleagues are present. 55 supported them, 5 opposed them. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. Before moving on to item 1 of the agenda, I would like to propose to the General Assembly, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, to consider the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, that, in order to perhaps consider, stress, to address paragraphs 5 and 6, we should unite and, of course, we will decide on each draft budget separately. I propose that we combine this point if, of course, the National Assembly agrees. I ask Members of the Group whether they agree to pool the time to deal with both proposals and to have representatives of the 40-minute groups at their disposal and to decide on each one individually. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u6	We do not agree with this because it is not business correctly. We can't do it that way. I propose that, like the points in order, we also discuss them. But I would point out this -- at least this is how we will do it -- that there is no need to repeat those discussions that will be discussed at one point, including at the other. This, of course, is a matter for each group and individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u7	I will put such a proposal to the vote, Members and Members of Parliament will decide. I just want to point out that whoever is already in charge of this meeting will have to be very consistent and stop any discussion by the speaker, who will touch on the budget proposal, which will not be dealt with at that moment, or drop at one and then we will have a discussion on both proposals. I therefore propose that by voting we decide whether we will deal with both proposals together or not - introductory explanations and presentations; we decide on each one individually, that is of course clear. I will put such a proposal to the vote and my colleagues will decide whether this is a sound proposal. Therefore, the proposal to bring together the 5th and 6th opinions and to take a separate decision on 5th and 6th paragraphs, shall be put to the vote. Please identify yourself to this proposal. There are 70 colleagues and colleagues present. 30 votes against, 35 against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. That way we can keep working. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Change and Complementation of the Law on Excise. The draft law was tabled by Mr Kacin, a fellow Member of Parliament, for consideration by the assembly. Does Comrade Kacin want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur or the chairman of the committee want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Comrade Pucka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, ladies ministers and ministers, representatives of the government! The mother labour body addressed that proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise law and proposed to the national assembly that the bill should be examined and adopted in accordance with the procedure proposed, together with the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Committee fully supported, especially because the government thus did not object to the basic proposal of the law - that proposal improved significantly in the substantive sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Mag. Anton Rop, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government has tabled amendments to this bill. In fact, these amendments already mean their adoption, implementation and implementation of the 2002 and 2003 draft budgets. These amendments propose raising excise duties in two areas: alcohol, alcohol and tobacco. In the field of tobacco, the solution and the amendment are particularly important, since it also allows us to move closer to the regulation in force in the European Union. These changes have an effect of 1.7 billion in 2002, 2.6 billion in 2003 and 2 billion in 2004 the Government has decided to make virtually the full realization of this title for investment in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Since no one wants to present the opinion of the Group of Members, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Otherwise, in my debate, I will not raise questions about the amendments proposed by the Government to that law, but I would like in particular to answer the question of a solution to Article 1 of the law amending and supplementing the existing law by not paying excise duties on excise goods in international traffic, namely, free-carrying shops at airports and ports open to international transport. This is okay, but I would like an answer as to how, with duty-free shops on the Slovenian-Croatian border, which, irrespective of the changes to the free trade law, remain and will remain until Slovenia enters the European Union or probably by the time our neighbour enters this integration. I think that, of course, this solution favours only one part of those duty-free shops that are left behind, not the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. You want a word? Here you go, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Hello, ladies ministers and ladies of the government. This bill has been kind of a "yeo" for quite some time. I am therefore surprised that a proposal has been adopted to deal with it in a simplified manner. But that's already a pass. So I'm going to ask for some information that I think the government should continue to say in its explanation. As I can see, the explanation for this law is an increase in national income and the health of the population. One cannot find out from an explanation which he considers either of these two reasons. Then it's mentioned in broad terms how harmful alcohol is. Thank God you left the wine where it was. This is the information that countries in the European Union have a cost of 2 to 5 per cent of GDP due to alcohol. Nowhere is it mentioned what this cost is like for us, and how much will we save in health care? I would very much like to know how these excise duties will affect the income of the country and in what period they expect these revenues to begin to be known. I would also like to ask if it would not be appropriate, since the law now stipulates that there will be excise on cigarettes, on those cigarettes that are most sold. I don't understand what that is, and I don't understand why we shouldn't put the excise on all cigarette products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Any other Members or Members of Parliament would like to discuss it? Because no, I ask the representative of the government if he wants to answer the questions raised. Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to give a few answers and explain the question that the Member of Parliament, Mr Auschwitz, has put to the government in fact. In this Article, we essentially place the amount of excise duty on 0, while this basic definition, which is in the basic law where 60 per cent of excise duty on tobacco products and 90 per cent of excise duty on alcohol, applies to road crossings. Thus, in this part of the road border crossings, free-carrying shops where these are established at these crossings with Croatia, we are in fact introducing this excise duty as much as 60 and 90 percent, as I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Minister Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u18	I would like, honourable Members and Members, to give some substantive reply to the Member of Parliament, Dr Bernick. First, the question is whether the country's income is or whether it's an effect on health in excise matters. Of course it's about both of us. This money, the health money, we need it anyway. This money, as you know, will be, or has already been, at a government meeting, provided either with an increased contribution or with other resources. We have had, as regards a risky lifestyle, this is, of course, alcohol, cigarettes, and the possibility of additional insurance for those who are at risk of living. However, the debate then showed that the issue of human privacy, rights and so forth would be hit very rapidly by the identification of who smokes and who drinks alcohol. Then we simply proposed and there is a proposal before you that instead of asking people for additional insurance, we take this insurance, in citations, when buying, which is, of course, called excise duty in our case. It is important, and it seems very important to us, that in this case taxes are no longer a neutral instrument, but are, in fact, substantively, at least in this segment, also intended for the additional revenues of the health department and the Ministry of Health. At the same time, by increasing the price of these products, at least such experiences show in the world, they have little effect on reducing the purchase of these products. To what extent, of course, is another issue, but there is no doubt that some price policy in the area of unhealthy risk-based practices also affects interference with this custom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Here you are, Yahweh of Armies, then, Lord Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u20	I'm sorry. We may have been too careful, but we did not fully understand what the Secretary of State had told us or wanted to say. The law tabled by the fellow Members last year, Mr Kacin, who remained as a candidate, proposed amendments, not bound by the European Union Directive and the promise and commitment of Slovenia to the European Union, to abolish free-of-tax shops at international border crossings. That is why this law is so written. However, here in Parliament we have adopted a slightly different law, as it looked so harshly as this provision, and in the law that was amended, we have abolished free-carrying shops at Slovenia's international road crossings bordering the European Union. However, we have maintained until further border crossings with the Republic of Croatia in an unaltered regime. And with this law, we get two guys, as I understand it, freelancing stores. Free tariff shops at airports and ports or ships and free-carrying shops on the Croatian-Slovenian border. Not Hungarian until further notice, but Hungary is already an associated member and is probably a different regime. However, especially for Croatia and Slovenia, the regime in existing legislation is the same as for airports, aircraft and ships. And that gives us two guys. I think it's more lapsus than the government's real wish to set up two types of free-carrying stores besides the type of former free-of-carry shops that now have some special status. I don't know where the reasons are and why I should be limited to myself and my economy by rights which are indisputable from the point of view of Slovenia's integration into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has not answered my question about how much the government expects it to receive from increased excise duties. Next time, I'm interested in the following. Mr. Secretary Keber mentioned alcohol. Even here, the government says how much damage alcohol does, but it doesn't say anything about cigarettes. Now I'm starting to worry about whether I should start smoking and stop drinking because it looks like one's dangerous and the other isn't. And I'd just like to have some of the parameters that I'd say are within what limits we're moving here, whether anyone has already figured that out. If the government couldn't figure it out, then I don't know why we're talking about it being good for health, people stopping smoking and drinking. I don't know, it seems to me that sometimes the government is a little allergic to such questions if a person asks for specific data, the numbers we get in the budget. Please answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to answer the Member of Parliament, Mr. Auschwitz. Already in the primary law, i.e. that basic excise law, we have two types of free-carrying shops and the excise duty that binds to them. First, of course, these free-of-customs shops are on planes and ships and then at road border crossings, airports and ports. With the law on the conversion of free-carrying shops to other stores, to frontier shops, we have essentially eliminated part of those requirements that we had before the European Union. We maintained the regime at border road crossings with Croatia. With these amendments to the basic excise law, in essence, if I may put it simplisticly, we add international border crossings to airports and ports, because this is the way international standards govern and interpret them. In fact, we are a little late in adapting to international standards in this area, where free-of-customs stores, which were originally intended as such, can continue to be maintained as such. We have therefore added here in this Article 1 this international border crossings at airports and ports, while for road border crossings with Croatia under the basic law there remains a excise duty of 60 % and 90% for individual products. So at the primary we had two types of TCPs or excises, so we also have in this present, by precategorizing in accordance with international standards. First, I would answer the question, Mr Bernik, if I were to say simplified again, about the formula for how the excise duty on cigarettes is calculated and why this retail price of the best-selling cigarettes. Such is the agreement in the European Union that there is one, I would say, basic formula as chosen and we are adapting after that. And we're doing all the comparisons. This, of course, seeks to achieve the macro effect that the best-selling cigarettes are subject to the adjustment of excise duties in amounts and thus to comparison. The effects of this title are as follows: in 2002, we will get a billion $400 million out of increased excise duty on alcohol and a billion $300 out of excise duty on cigarettes; in 2003 we will get two billion 600 out of cigarettes and in 2004 around two billion. The various amounts are, of course, due to this pace and the percentage of excise duty in the amount of retail prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President. If it is believed, or if the budget as proposed is adopted, and the real wage decline is forecast in 2002 and 2003 or the upsurge in their growth, then, of course, there is a slight doubt as to whether these increases in excise duties will actually achieve the financial effects that you have mentioned. Relatively, it can be expected that if wages were to decrease, that purchasing power would also decrease, and that, of course, then sales would decrease, in fact, of those articles which, in order to be necessary, would say that there is no need for vital necessities already - that is, I certainly agree, alcohol and to some extent tobacco. Although the Secretary of State has now answered this question in part, why the excise duty on cigarettes is applied to the most sold type of cigarettes. Personally, I imagine I'm not a smoker myself, but I imagine that smokers buy the most high-quality cigarettes. Accordingly, perhaps the most high - quality cigarettes are the most expensive. It's probably the amount of nicotine in the tobacco itself. Or is such a regulation of excise duties not a danger that, in fact, smokers will then resort to worse types of cigarettes that will continue to be cheaper and, in fact, will not achieve the effect that you are proposing, is said to be due to a risky lifestyle, but in fact, the opposite effect will be achieved so that consumption of poorer quality will further burden the health condition of that population, which, in my opinion, is due to the excise duties you are introducing, will not fail in any way, nor to cigarettes or probably not to drink alcoholic beverages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u28	When I listened to Minister Kebra's explanation of what extra excise duties on alcoholic beverages and cigarettes meant, I wasn't paying much attention, but I think I understood that it was essentially insurance, a safe or healthy life, that it would be taken away when these products were sold. I wonder if this means that every 14 days the government introduces new insurance to us in order to increase the excise duty on petrol and how well we citizens are already insured because almost every 14 days there is a new excise duty and if that really means additional insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the representatives of the government, I ask if any other Members or Members wish to speak. [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to Minister Keber, then to Mr Koncan. Mr. Keber, can you sign in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u30	I'm sorry. First, a few substantive explanations. I'm sure I don't have any exact numbers on the damage caused by alcohol in front of me, and I'm sorry about that. However, even if I did bring them, they would not be true, since the data on the effects of alcohol are simply not clear in this country, most of the time we get them by analogy. We already know, let's say that this time we think that 300 deaths or 1/3 deaths in traffic accidents are the result of alcohol, but the interpretation, as you well know, is how much alcohol in the driver's blood is still considered to be driving under the influence of alcohol and it's a legal question. We know, say, that we have 800, a year, direct deaths as direct consequences of alcohol. We do not know what the impact of alcohol on less working ability means. We have, or almost have, no data on abstention due to alcoholism. We do not know what the impact of human labour capacity and the impact on reduced productivity are. What are the costs for social services and hospitalization of others who are victims of alcoholism? That is why I can quote data from countries that have more experience in this area and drink less alcohol. It is claimed that at least 2 per cent of the social product is paid annually as a direct result of alcohol and the damage caused by it. No country serves with alcohol, nor does the producer, horses drink more than 4 litres of pure alcohol per capita. We have data from 11 to 15 litres per capita, as you know. Our country has certain damage. We don't want excises on cigarettes and alcohol. We'd like you to disappear. If it were possible to make the excise duty, which would thus undermine these products, lead to the abandonment of these products, this country - not only its health and the health of the population - would profit economically. So, I'd say an experiment, if you increase prices, you'll get less and less excise taxes, or you want that. Yeah, that's what we want. As far as poor or good products are concerned, the following should be known. As far as wine or alcohol is concerned, it is harmful by quantity of alcohol. Noble wine is no less harmful in the same amount than acid across the road. The amount of alcohol is the one that's hurting citizens. As a result, an attempt to pay a single tax or a single contribution to the amount of alcohol is the most reasonable, not the percentage burden. And the same thing that sets cigarettes. It's not about nicotine in cigarettes. Nicotine is conditioned by addiction, but a fundamental critical factor in cigarettes is carbon monoxide. This is the one causing most of the disease, and after that, the cigarettes do not differ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to give a few answers to the Member, Mr Sok, from a financial, economic point of view. Demand for such products as alcohol, cigarettes, and the like is already known from theory as an extremely inelastic demand. It is said that, irrespective of whether prices change, increase or decrease, the quantity of demand will also change substantially in the opposite direction. Of course, everything has its limits, because beyond a certain limit, what can happen is, of course, the Ministry of Health would prefer that no one smokes or drinks, or that there is another negative social form, such as increased contrabant and similar matters. Whenever the government proposes these professional solutions, of course, we have in mind where this inelasticity goes, this pricey inelasticity of demand for these products. As a matter of interest, I would like to inform you only of the latest directive adopted in the European Union, which introduces the following preparatory or transitional period until 2004 or 2007. Under this Directive, excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes will be substantially increased, significantly increased from this current level, to which we join or harmonise with these amendments to the law. There has been a lot of talk in the European Union lately, and it is obvious in these countries that other secondary, indirect reasons and indirect consequences are more important than the financial and fiscal effects themselves. Regarding the debate by Mr Jerovsk, when you mentioned that if the government also cares about any other insurance. I must say that the government is in line with its entire price policy in the field of fuel, oil derivatives and what you probably had in mind, we see that we have in Slovenia, even in relation to neighbouring countries, not only EU members, but also Croatia and others, that we have significantly lower retail fuel prices, so we also proposed, within the given options, excise duties, not every 14 days, but when it was possible that the retail price of petrol remained at the same level, then the government also proposed to increase excise duty in order to keep the final price equal for consumers. We are still very much below the average of the members of the European Union in the retail price of fuel, as well as the neighbouring countries. This way we cannot fully attach to your opinion, which you have expressed. It's not that, but it's not the government, if we're honest, but, of course, the situation in the world's oil markets, the whole situation, if it works for us, why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 27.11.2001. Of the six articles in the basic proposal of the law, all articles except the first are amended. You have all the amendments in front of you. The basic Article 1 which I am now putting to discussion and decision is contained in the basic review of the law. Does anyone want to discuss Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 1. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 2 and the Government's amendment to this article, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There's 39 in attendance. I think that the reason for this number of presences on the screen is only a reduced degree of attention, so please allow valid voting by pressing on one of the buttons. For the second time, we are voting on the Government's amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 2 has been completely amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 45 present. I don't think the data on the screen is correct, so please, because we're in the voting phase, attention. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 45 present. For the second time, we have failed to vote and we are inconclusive, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I interrupt work for ten minutes. We'll continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues who are in the vicinity, please join us because this is the third time we will be voting on the amendment to Article 3. In the third vote on the amendment to Article 3, we will also indirectly identify the presence in the Chamber, so I ask you to calm down and pay attention to the votes. The vote on the amendment to Article 3 also identifies the presence. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 3 has been fully amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. He voted 50 against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move to a vote on the title of the law. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the amendments adopted could undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on the amendment of the law on the tax on paid salaries. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Koncan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending the law on taxation of paid wages was adopted by the National Assembly at first reading on 27 January 1999. At that time, the National Assembly concluded by finding that the proposal for a law amending the law on taxation on paid wages was a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a law on second treatment and, at the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proposer of the law, ordered that a proposal for a second treatment should be drawn up to take account of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and to prepare and amend the final provision of the draft law relating to the deadline for the implementation of this law. The Government took into account the conclusions of the national assembly adopted at the first hearing when preparing the proposal for a law amending the law on taxation on paid wages for the second reading. In addition, when preparing the draft law for second reading, the government is also proposing an amendment proposing an additional burden on employers on the taxation of salaries above 130,000 tolars, according to the proposal for a law adopted at first reading. This will raise the lower limit for the taxation of salaries paid for one class, which means that wages up to or up to the 130,000 tolar class will not be taxed, while at the same time reducing the taxation of salaries above 130,000 tolars by 0.20 percentage points. According to the latest data available to the government, this tax has been burdened with wages of around 29% of the workers, and at rate 2% of the wages are taxed today about 11% of the workers. With this proposed amended tax scale, the full payload of this tax will be paid by around 41% of workers, which, of course, relieves employers in this sense. We estimate that the proposed amendment will result in around 5.7 billion tolars of annual income deficits. Taking into account the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, the Government, with the second amendment, proposes that foreign diplomatic representations and consulates operating in the Republic of Slovenia also be exempt from paying the tax on salaries paid, which is essentially equivalent to the regulation and status of our similar representations abroad. For all these reasons, the Government proposes to adopt the bill together with the proposed amendments to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr. Cyril Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives and government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the context of the general debate, the working body addressed the above-mentioned draft law and highlighted the following issues in particular. Firstly, particular consideration was given to the disproportionateity of government decisions in relation to the amendment of the Social Security Contributions Act. On the one hand, there is an increase in contributions and on the other, protection or reduction of certain duties. The position at the starting point was exposed from the point of view of both basic cash registers, both the health insurance institution and the pension and disability insurance institution and their balance, and also within the meaning of the entire budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Questions were also raised regarding the projected reductions and local quantification of the amounts under the envisaged categories and the impact of economic developments, the inflation of wages on the projected fixed amounts. The members of the Committee were particularly interested in how the budget shortfall would be covered on the basis of the text submitted and why the amendments had not changed the baseline, for example, from 130 000 to 140 thousand dollars. It was also particularly pointed out that, due to the ever-increasing gap between low and high wages, the higher taxation of the latter would allow for an ever-increasing social gap. Finally, in terms of the pursuit of a single business policy, it is necessary to think in the direction of the economy's overall beneficial investments in new investments, especially to highlight those investments that are carried out by, in particular, the privileged economic branches also at the expense of borrowing. In conclusion, the members of the Committee found that the questionable final effects of such decisions could be on the longer term, as if we were actually to increase the competitiveness of the economy and exports, we would have to approach longer-term solutions that are more radical and comprehensive. In this context, certain objectives, particularly in terms of increased consumption burdens, decommissioning of production and increasing competitiveness, should also be pursued when adopting other legislative proposals, such as value added tax. Following the general discussion, the Committee supported the Government's proposal for a new A1 article and the amendment to Article 1 and to the title of the legislative text, while at the same time proposing to the assembly that the third section of the Rules of Procedure should be dealt with in accordance with the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, we are very pleased to have, in the context of the budgetary debate and, of course, all these financial laws on the benches, a law that somehow does not increase taxes or excise duties or raises those rates, but lowers them in some segment, and in particular the contribution of employers to wages that are below 130 000 dollars gross. We welcome this, of course, because this law must also be adopted under another legislation that we have considered during this period, in particular the Social Insurance Contributions Act. We see that, taking into account both of these laws, there is a kind of positive or favourable net profit for economic activities, which mainly employ a lower-educated labour force and thus receive lower wages, thus paying below 130 thousand dollars gross. As a result, the increase in the health insurance contribution rate will have no negative consequences, as this law will somehow neutralize or even put a little in favour of these labour intensive industries or industries that employ lower-wage labour. However, it is only the reallocation of funds from the budget or from some other treasury to the health treasury and, in fact, it is only in most cases that a measure is apparent. But I would like to point out the dilemma that opens up to us. Especially this limit is 130 thousand dollars gross. Because with this limit, somehow employers who pay wages around this border will be destimulated to raise wages above that limit and keep them below that limit, as they will receive lower taxes. It seems to me that this fixed limit is not happily established, that we could set some softer transition and some other escalation, and I think that this very strictly defined border will also have some bad consequences, disstimulating the rise of wages above this level - that is, in particular those wages that are at this border. Otherwise, in the Social Democratic Party, we support this amendment of the law and, of course, we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The government tabled a proposal for a law amending the law on taxation on paid wages into the legislative procedure already in 1997. After proposing a rapid procedure first, she subsequently decided to adopt a normal procedure for the adoption of the law. The law went through the first hearing on 27.1.1999 when the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law was an appropriate basis for preparing the law for a second reading. At the same time, he agreed that the Government should prepare a law for second reading within 30 days at the latest. Since the government proposed in the bill to raise the lower limit on the taxation of salaries paid for one class, this means that all gross wages would be taxed below 130,000 tolars. This solution is, of course, aimed at further decommissioning of labour costs in the economy, particularly in labour intensive productions where there are the lowest wages. It must be recognised that this is true, and also in combination with the rise in the social security contribution rate, the net effect on the average industrial company is positive. However, the competitiveness of our economy will require much more. The envisaged measure is intended to contribute to the conservation of jobs in manufacturing sectors. That is why, of course, we expected the government to prepare the draft law as soon as possible for a second treatment and thereby burden employers in these sectors. However, despite the decision taken, we waited a year and a half for the completed proposal, until 18.9.2001, although the law has only two articles. There is no need to interpret the relationship between the pay system and the pay system during these years. What the gross salary of 130,000 Slovenian Tolars meant in 1997 and what it means today is clear to the government, since it stated in the explanation of the draft law for the first reading that 63% of all employees would not be required to pay taxes on paid salaries. In preparing the second-reading law, the government stated to explain that only 40% of such workers were still employed. Of course, in the amendment to the law, the government proposed an appropriate reduction of the tax rate for individual payment classes by 0.2 percentage points, as far as we adopted in the National Assembly last week a law on increasing the contribution to health insurance for workers, also paid by employers. Thus, the duty will not be altered for the employer at first sight. However, the number of workers belonging to the category of salaries for which there is no taxation is increasing. I would like to know why the government did not raise the lower limit on taxation by falling into the category of workers such as the 1997 bill. It's 63%. The Government also stated in its explanatory memorandum on the preparation of the First Treatment Act: "For public financial reasons, it will only be possible to abolish the paid wages tax in full by introducing value added tax in 1999." I know that the question would fall more under the question of the Member State and the initiative, but I am still interested in whether the government still intends to eliminate this tax rate in order to compensate for the revenue generated by this tax. Otherwise, we support the law in the SMS client. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! Allow me to present the opinion of New Slovenia on the amendment of the Tax Law to the salaries paid. This is certainly a normal reaction to change the law. In fact, this law has fixed levels for salary taxation. Given that we are facing a high level of inflation in our country, more and more wages are moving into the sphere of taxation. In time, all wages would become highly taxed. And if we look from the perspective of the budget for 2002 and 2003, from this point of view, no matter what happens, we see that the expected growth in budget revenues is 15%, which is more than the forecast inflation growth. This means that the tax on paid salaries increases for citizens and thus also burdens the economic sector, leaving less, less accumulation, less means of resuscitation, production or activities. In fact, this is only a measure against the rigid setting of the level of wage taxation. However, the underlying problem remains that these budget revenues are not actually originally part of the budget, but that these revenues should come into the pension and health allowance. It is precisely because of such interventions that have taken place that we now have difficulty having both cashiers' planned deficits, which must be covered by the budget. In the case of pension and invalidity laws, this is specifically provided for in the Article, and in the case of health allowance, this is provided for in the budget. This, of course, makes the cashier non-autonomous, the system non-autonomous, and probably even less rational and worse the behaviour of those who run the cash registers because they are not forced to act economically. Otherwise, we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of representatives of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We do not have a review of the amendments, but we will follow the basic proposal of the law and the amendments that have been tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a new A1 article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article A1 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, of course, this article is one that brings something or something to the state budget. Certainly this resource is important, quite large and it may be right to remain in line with the needs for budgetary revenue. It is also good to reduce or eliminate the burden of gross wages paid, especially in the labour intensive sectors where wages are relatively low. That's good. However, in view of the fact that such stepping up with a small degree of hard approach is often not too fair, I think it would be very reasonable, because this is the law in the second reading, about this stepping up to the third reading, because we are now going to amend it, consider it, and perhaps in a different mathematical way more acceptable to solve it. Personally, however, I am convinced that it would be necessary to introduce at least two other classes, given the situation in wage policy. And this class, whose progressive burden should be very sensitive. With us, wages are practically raised so high in some companies, for certain structures, that they go beyond the normal limits. There should be a security guard here that there's no point in raising wages from one border anymore, because it's being picked up by the state, so to speak. That's what some people have, for example. We future partners of the European Union, very well done, made. Up to some level, the salary stands there because practically from there the state picks it up and no employer is actually willing to go through it. So I will certainly support this amendment, although it does not interfere in the sense that I would like to see it, or as I think it would be right. However, the article will be open and possible in the second, in the third, and also in the third reading, to a little more substantive ownership of the capture itself, both the rates and the number of rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We decide on the Government's amendment to Article 1. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 1 has been completely amended. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. An amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I am putting to the debate, has been tabled in the title of the law. Anybody want a word? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the address has been completely amended. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also tabled an additional proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The third consideration of the draft law shall be carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW, The draft law was tabled by Member Cyril Pucko. Does the bill's proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President, Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This is the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities which discussed the proposal at its 8th extraordinary meeting. In addition to the basic material, this is the proposal itself, of course, members of the Committee and members of the Committee have received a whole range of materials from certain interested public and institutions and most importantly, these are government amendments which have fully put the content, concept and purpose of the law, as proposed by the proposer, into another dimension. In this context, the representative of the applicant or the co-proposer also provided the Committee with an introductory explanation, as in the report. However, he did not stop anything with regard to his purpose, which is, of course, entirely in a different light and in another sense, with the amendments of the government. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, however, in its written opinion, drew its thinking and conclusions on both the basic law and the amendments. That's why it's a good idea for me to summarize it a little bit. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs notes that the law in question contains everything, with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the specified ingredients and that the drafter of the law has changed the proposed ordinary legislative procedure into a rapid procedure, which he has also specifically explained. The Secretariat also drew attention to a decision of the Constitutional Court in which the Court found that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was inconsistent with Articles 82 and 83 of the Health and Health Insurance Act and gave the legislator a one-year deadline for its abolition. This deadline expired on 13.11.1999 and no draft law has been tabled in the legislative procedure to remedy the finding of non-compliance. From a legal system point of view, the Secretariat notes that the proposed legal solutions proposed by the Government in the form of an amendment constitute a significant intervention in the current legal matter and the regulation of compulsory health insurance rights, or constitute a certain limitation of certain existing health services rights, which, according to the proposer and the government, are expected to act in the direction of public financial savings. From a legal point of view, the secretariat has no comments on the text of the articles of the draft law. However, the Secretariat has comments on the amendments tabled by the Government because they are not adequately submitted from a nomo technical point of view, since the existing structures of the articles of the draft law should be adhered to. In particular, it points out that, from a legal point of view, the amendments tabled will make it difficult for the amendment itself, especially in cases where amendments are tabled by other competent proposers, particularly in the case of amendments to the amendments to the Government, and the transparency of those amendments will be hampered. The representative of the government presented quite comprehensively to the members of the committee the purpose he wants to achieve with the amendments he will certainly present for me, so he would not repeat this. In accordance with the opinion of the Secretariat and with the content of the amendments themselves, the members of the Committee also highlighted in the debate the question of the delegation of powers to the Assembly of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute to determine the percentages of the value of health services paid to insured persons by compulsory health insurance. The members of the Committee took it virtually unanimously that it was unacceptable for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health to decide individual rights and percentages instead of representatives of employers and insurers. So far, the practice is to do so according to the plurality of the assembly of the institution in agreement with the government. The members of the Committee supported all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the discussion and the opinion of the secretariat, the following amendments to the Government's amendments were drafted and adopted: the amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 1, the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 - Articles shall be amended by this amendment to the Government's amendment by renumbering or amending the title in Article 1A, 1B to 1J - the third amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 11a and the amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 2. After the discussion, the Committee also adopted the following decision: The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider and adopt, together with amendments to the Government's amendments and amendments supported by the Committee, the amendment of the Law on Health and Health Care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He does.]] Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Dear Members and Members! In short, it is a matter of reducing certain rights that would not be called the right to health care but social rights that have been settled from the health insurance budget so far. In doing so, I would like to say, not for the first time, that there would be a diversion if we did not recognise that health rights are constantly changing, even without conclusions in Parliament. New ones are added because medicine is developing, and other old rights are generally diluted. Depends on how much money we have. By automatically reducing the accessibility of rights at times a year. There's a waiting period. When we are clearing the rights lists, we are obliged to also submit to you such changes as should not affect what we want to achieve, to complete the entire healthcare programme that we have promised the citizens. In this regard, at the beginning of the mandate, this government has entrusted itself with the task of looking at what rights, I call social rights, can at least be limited slightly to the burden of the Health Insurance Fund. Let me just count them. Our initial proposal, of course, has been bigger and has also provided greater financial savings. Long-term coordination with different partners, party partners as well as social partners, ultimately led to a total savings, which is actually small in the overall budget of the insurance company 300 billion. This current savings is estimated at 1 billion 300, and nevertheless allow me to mention what savings are being made. The highest savings are the so-called administrative stocks. The current law states that individuals who complain about the decision of the disability commission shall remain in the so-called administrative stock. Such a stock, regardless of whether a person may be recognized as a healthy person or, of course, as a retirement, may last for years. Disposal of this option means saving 600 million tolars at annual level. Another great social justice, traditional, is funerals. Every dead citizen in this country, if I say very round, received or his family, for a funeral of 100,000 tolars or 110 thousand tolars. And that's regardless of his social situation. This amounted to about 2 billion costs per year for health insurance. We have introduced social categories here, with minimum wage. All those with a minimum wage and below it continue to receive unchanged funerals, in fact even increased this year. That's 62 percent. Those between 100 and 150 percent of the minimum wage receive about 2/3 of this new funeral and only 10 percent of the citizens with the highest income of this funeral after the new, following this bill, lose. Saving 380 million. We've done the same thing with the post-mortems, and the reasons are the same. This is a very small savings, 50 million. Then there are the travel costs for travel outside the place of residence. We have only reduced these travel costs by 100 million to a precise definition of the reasons. And then there's another important category, the so-called non-discipline of paying for healthcare contributions. We have here a group of so-called self-employed citizens who do not pay contributions but receive all rights from health insurance, or do the same for all their employees. I would like to point out that there would be no misunderstanding. The employees of such an employer shall be innocent and shall continue to retain all their rights, regardless of the fact that their employer has not paid them the contribution, but the employer’s own right, with the exception of emergency medical care, is lost. It is estimated that this discipline will save us 200 million. I'm sure you've also noticed the category of transports, ambulances, not emergency transports. In this category we have only improved the text that it is more clearly written, who has the right to these non-essential rescue services, but the right remains completely unchanged and there is no savings in this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Just in order, like you raised your hands. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I think New Slovenia, so Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that the debate I had before could continue through this law. Indeed, the problem of autonomy of health insurance has also proved to be the case with the proposed amendment of this law. The loss of autonomy, therefore, in percentages rather than health insurance, of course with the consent of the Ministry or government, is transferred to the responsibility of the government. As previously pointed out, this is an additional instrument for the loss of autonomy. Too bad I don't see any reason, and they're not exactly stated why such an arrangement, why the transfer of responsibility to another level. The government is looking for new financial resources to fill the budget treasury. Apparently, she also found it on one of the rights segments. In these changes we can talk about two sets of rights: Rights relating to basic health insurance and this basic health insurance must be implemented and guaranteed, not just on the basis of social-economic status, if we are to maintain the principle of insurance. That's not working. In New Slovenia, however, we agree with the Government's proposals that what does not fall within the scope and scope of health rights, that this is excluded in another law and is governed by the principles of socio-economic criteria in order to take this into account. Health insurance must therefore be made available on the basis of insurance principles. In this regard, we will only support some of these amendments, which have been tabled, while the rest, in particular Article 23, we strongly reject. We do not think that this is acceptable to Slovenia and this is not the right course, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Your Honor! Of course, the proposal for amendments to the law can be divided into two sets. The first is a proposal to partially abolish the autonomy of the Health Insurance Authority and transfer the right to determine the share covered by compulsory or voluntary insurance directly to the Minister. And the second part, where it has already been quite well reasoned that funerals are involved, is that the funerals are referred to as an element that could in some way be regarded as a social component, which does not actually belong in the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. To the first part, we should first say that we observe each year, that this government or that initiatives continue to repeat, one way or another, so that in some way they can be taken under the overall budget somehow, slowly, or somehow, on a quick medical cash flow again. Because some are very disturbed that health care actually works well, at least until 1999 it worked perfectly until the contribution rate was unduly reduced. However, the autonomy of these funds is a guarantee that our health and our health will be properly and in time, as far as we can from our gross social product. The desire to accept this again under the integrated budget, which we are constantly seeing, is, of course, designed to make the government so much easier to deal with budget holes, waving them in its own way that it might buy them not only for a defence toll, but also for a health tolar another luxury plane, and then health care should, like defence, hire expensive loans abroad and so on. So, with regard to the first amendment and the first point, we strongly oppose, because we are very concerned that our health is protected from the poor financial policy of this country. Secondly, as regards funerals and post-mortems, we also consider them to be a social category, and it is certainly not necessary for all, without regard to income, to receive the same amount of funds for a decent burial of the deceased. I think it's a good idea, but once again, there's a mistake in that if you take a good look at the government's proposal, you'll have to prove the deceased's family's personal income, the whole thing will linger, it'll somehow extend and it'll count and so on. Somehow it seems to us that the approach itself is not in line with such a singing anti-birocratic programme. However, there is also an attempt to save some money here, and we will probably have to get used to a little bit here, save a little bit there, and then invest these funds in more important things. But what bothers me is that, in fact, with a proposal that is very short, which has only one paragraph to change, we hang a number of amendments and we want to shake the whole law in some way. But I wish I could. If only the whole law were to be dealt with in an integrated manner and the problems we are facing were solved in the package. Unfortunately there is no such thing, even though the responsible promise us every year, every month, every week. See, at the same time, the Legislature also mentioned that, in so doing, I would say, in some sense unjustifiable extension of the subject matter, this is the true type of amendments which have no connection with the proposed law, and the proposal is that the Government forgot at the request of the 1996 Constitutional Court to amend, complement paragraphs 82 and 83, where it is to define the complaint routes to the decisions of the Medical Commission, the Disability Commission and so on. So where it's about protecting a consumer, so to speak. That deadline was two years ago. Despite the fact that we are considering this law, the proposaler did not include this. That bothers us. So our parliamentary group will support the law. It will not support the first proposal to reduce the autonomy of the health insurance institution, I would say, with some unpleasant taste, that this is a partial solution that is not worth some systematic integrated policy that Slovenia actually deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Well-welcome government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Health rights are certainly among the most sensitive issues, practically for all people in Slovenia, for all of us. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have always advocated the preservation of all those rights in the health insurance system, which have been established through practice as an important aspect of solidarity among people. For this reason, we have also been particularly involved in the preparation of the National Health Programme in the United Social Democratic Group, where we have expressed particular concern about ensuring accessibility to health services, and in addition to the basic health care network, the level of rights that we provide solidarity in the health law itself is important. It is very difficult to approach any reduction in existing health-care rights in the behaviour that, in recent years, we have already gone as far as possible with different laws to equal health care for all. We have done this in particular through various forms of emergency payments in the purchase of medicines or supplements for the provision of health services. The percentage of individual participation from the total solidarity we knew before the bad decade changed to more than 20 per cent of supplementary health insurance payments, which means for many people who are materially threatened, very large, sometimes unacceptable, expenditure. It is no wonder, therefore, that many people in Slovenia even give up the treatment they need or even buy prescribed medicines. However, experience has shown us that health is a value for which people are willing to do the same, so many people in Slovenia give up other important living needs in order to realize the right to health care. The health trends that the Minister of Health has told us about many times, as we have heard today, are causing an increasing deficit in the health treasury. Thus, every day we are faced with the dilemma of how to ensure, by means of these funds and limited resources, the level of healthcare rights that we have guaranteed in the past. In all these movements, we are also aware that neither citizens nor the economy, as employers say, can be burdened with new and significantly higher contributions if we do not want to reduce the competitiveness of the economy itself and so on. In the United List of Social Democrats and in the Group of Members, we have always advocated the structure of rights, which will also provide the most socially disadvantaged groups with adequate and necessary health care. In this direction, we have also supported the proposed solutions to today's proposal for amendments to the law. The solutions are aimed at ensuring that those groups that are able to do so materially contribute more or receive less from health supplies than those of the population that cannot do so. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we do not like to adopt the law as one of the measures that will contribute to reducing the deficit in the Health Treasury, taking into account the criteria that changes will not pose a social threat to anyone. In the Group of Members of the United Social Democrats, we have decided to support all the government amendments, except of course the Government amendment to Article 23 of the Law, in the second paragraph, because our proposal was also on the Committee of Mothers. Because we are aware that the amendment in question is essential to the scope of rights, we will therefore support the proposal of the home committee in this article. This is said to be the case, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will adopt such a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The opinion of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, once again. Based on the solidarity of the established compulsory health insurance system, that is to say that they contribute a percentage of the remuneration paid by both the employer and the other employees, regardless of how expensive or what extent the service will benefit from this title, we in the Slovenian People's Party's Group are of the opinion that the measure, when covering the costs of some previously recognised rights, in certain services, we attach ourselves to the income situation or income capacity of the debtor is not the most justified measure. However, we believe that, given the situation that is present in the financing of healthcare, it is necessary to support and support this measure. Also because the health care system has recently identified the introduction of certain new rights in terms of health insurance. It would certainly be more fair for us to, by changing the contribution rates of all debtors to such an extent as we have done a little bit back, in amending the Social Security Contributions Act by 0.2 percentage points for employers, to have a more equitable impact on health insurance income and on income to provide a stable or achieved level of health care and services, such as, of course, a measure by which we also contribute to this Title in terms of reducing expenditure. We certainly do not accept with indifference that we did not immediately intervene in this bill in the necessity imposed on us by the Constitutional Court's decision, but in view of the fact that there are several other things that need to be done under the umbrella of the Health and Insurance Act, in addition to what is imposed by the Constitutional Court's decision, we accept that in a short time the applicant, which is probably the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will submit comprehensive amendments to the Basic Health and Health Insurance Act. As was the case with the arguments given on the Committee itself, there is no need and there is no argument to reduce in any way the competence of the Health Insurance Authority in determining the percentage of coverage of certain health services in the form of health insurance in favour of or under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is more right, given the healthcare system through the health insurance system, that the assembly of the institution is the one that is already made up of the electoral system by carrying out, of course, in agreement with the government, this mission, as it has so far been. We will be in law with all the amendments that have received support and also the amendments of the committee have been supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of representatives of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nevertheless, I think we are dealing with such an important law and substance today that something has to be said about it. It seems to me that this is the way in which a sold success story ends, we raise excise duties once for petrol, today for alcoholic beverages, tobacco, new taxes are being announced, both in the value added tax, property tax, car tax, sales of state property, reductions on the other side of the right, once pensioners, today here health rights or rights under this title. The population of this country is, of course, more or less pressed to the ground through all of this and cannot help itself. Of course, this Parliament actually accepts this quickly, following a rapid procedure, the proposal comes to the table, Members vote and the matter goes its way. On Thursday, we accepted an increase in the health contribution rate. Even then, the President of our party here has made it public that it is a fire-fighting measure with too little water, today to fix it, so to speak, a contribution from wages, but in fact it is all at the expense of what Drnovskov's government did when in the years, I think 1996, we have reduced the health contribution rate and thus made the health allowance dependent at this point on the budget or brought it into the situation we are in. So that this will happen, in fact, is evident from the coalition contract itself, where, in fact, these matters are planned, because it is predicted that these rights will be reduced, but also in the coalition contract, it is stated that all residents of this health service will somehow be provided with the same scope. I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry where these same levels of health rights are today, especially in rural areas, where these reduced waiting species are today promised in this coalition contract, I think on page 29, where these programmes, which are now referred to as reducing dependence on alcohol, tobacco - therefore there is no and there is no systematic approach to solving these problems in this country, practically at this point. The only thing that is certain is that we increase the burden on one side and that we reduce, I would say, the rights. We are, however, very interested in whether this will be enough, or whether it is just the beginning of the process and it is too little to remedy the situation in both the health and social treasury sectors in Slovenia and not always come to a new and new proposal about, on the one hand, increasing contributions and taxes and on the other hand reducing rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. I apologize, but this is a chapter in the question and initiative of Members and Members. Today we have before us a concrete proposal for a law with specific issues, so I do not think it is appropriate to extend any discussion to the programmes envisaged by coalition partners in the coalition treaty. This is not in line with the rules of procedure which, of course, requires us to stick to the point we have on the agenda. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 20.11.2001. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the two amendments to Article 1. Under 1 is an amendment to the government's amendment. Under order number 2, however, is the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 44 of us present. The first vote on the amendment to Article 1 has therefore not been carried out in force. Dear fellows, fellows who are near! Please join us as we are in the decision-making phase on the type of amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee. The second time, therefore, we will decide on the amendment of the Government to Article 1. We're voting. Your Honor! I do not think that this is a reflection of the numerical state of Members and Members. At the gym, I think there must be 50 of us, but that's your decision. By not doing your job as the Rules of Procedure foresee. Since the second vote has also shown that we are inconclusive, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I interrupt work for 10 minutes. We'll resume at 4:18 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u61	I very much ask the honourable Members to gather together in a suitable number, because this is the third time we will vote on the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 1 and thus indirectly determine the presence in the Chamber. So for the third time, we are voting on an amendment to the government's amendment to Article 1, whose proposer is the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the Government's amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 1 has been amended. We are moving on to debate and decision-making for the new 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 articles, under order number 1, we have an amendment to the amendment of the government, whose proposer is the committee, noting that the amendment to the amendment is editorial in nature. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 1.a, under order number 1, we have an amendment to the amendment of the government, the proposed committee and the amendment of the government under order 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 48 votes against two. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 8. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 1.b with the remark that if this amendment is not adopted, the vote on the amendment for the new Article 1st time is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment and thus Article 1b have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 1.c, with a footnote, if not adopted, the amendment for a new Article 1st time is also irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 1c have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 1st time. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new first paragraph have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 1d with the remark that if it is not adopted, the vote on the amendments for the new Articles 1e, 1st and 1st paragraphs is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 1.f. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're going through no decision. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 1. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 1st paragraph. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 1st. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 1. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article. Subsequent number 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the government and under order number 2 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all the amendment to the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and this amends the article. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1 and 2 have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading law. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether compliance with the amendments adopted may be compromised. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of vote, interrupt the vote. I'm sorry I didn't notice you. Mr. Petty Officer - explanation of voice. Here you go. The vote now published is not valid because it has been suspended. Mr. Petty Officer, explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will vote against this law. First, because some rights are being reduced, which are for people who benefit from health care, vital and vital; secondly, because autonomy is still being added to health insurance as a system that we have set up for citizens to have decent health care. This can't be a good trip for a further health system in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I will also vote against this law, in addition to the arguments put forward by my fellow Member, Mag. A trifle, I would like to point out one more - this is actually the way and procedure in which this national assembly adopts such important laws. So, in a matter of half an hour, after a quick procedure, without some in-depth discussion, with the pressure on these keys, we lower so much rights for citizens and citizens, for that reason I cannot vote for this law, as most in this House will, I believe, accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister. I would be happy if the government could come up with a proposal for which it could vote, but it seems to me that this is one of the toughest cases of use or abuse of a rapid procedure for something we do not think is premeditated enough. I can only speak for myself; I speak for myself; I think it is not clever enough and that it can cause headaches not only because of the rapid procedure, but because of the solution that has come to us in this way. When we see what happens to different cash registers, including health care, we think that this is how to redesign systems, with such haste and with such quality of decision that it is not good. And I don't want to be responsible for my share in terms of "yes" so I'm gonna "again".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since we have completed our explanations of vote, we can therefore move on to a full vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and move on to 4. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the general long-term development and equipping of the Slovenian military. The proposal for a general long-term programme was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? I'm sorry. Would you like a representative of the government, Minister of Defense? Dr. Anton Grizold, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, my fellow Members! After a comprehensive analysis of the situation in the defence system at the beginning of this year, the resolution on the national security strategy adopted by the National Assembly in July lays down the basis for further changes in the entire defence system as well as in the transformation and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces. On this basis, the government has drawn up a comprehensive programme of measures to ensure the continuation and completion of the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the establishment of an effective and rational military organisation capable of carrying out national defence and also compatible with comparable military organisations in the world. The key features of this programme are: realism, feasibility, planning and coherence with the country's material and other resources, and compliance with developments in the international security environment. Individual parts aim to achieve the strategic objectives of the Slovenian state. And what does this package involve? In addition to the updated draft budgets for 2002 and 2003, amendments to the law on the provision of funds for the basic development programmes adopted at the 10th meeting include the proposal for a new long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is ahead of you. Furthermore, amendments to other development and normative solutions, including the Defence Act. The proposal for a programme consists first of an overview of the situation in the development of the military so far and of the starting point for its further transformation. This takes into account the fact that some developments have already been made in the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, on which to build in the future. Therefore, the programme does not deny activity in previous years, but at the starting point it is the essence of reducing the Slovenian Army's military composition to up to 26,000 members, changing the internal structure and achieving 52 partner objectives which the Slovenian State has chosen. Further transformation of the Slovenian Army takes into account the tasks of the military in peace, crisis situations in a broader strategic or regional environment or in a possible war. In the future, the organization of the army will be united, that is, without division by type. Its structure must be comparable to those of the developed land forces, particularly those of NATO. Its ability must be enhanced, especially to operate in peace. The changes in the structure will ensure the creation of intervention forces, the main and complementary forces. Priority will be given to the intervention force, in particular the 10th and 20th motorised battalion already mentioned. The main forces will consist of two brigades, aviation units, air defences and support units. In addition to the units, complementary forces will also include territorial logistics elements and complementary centres. They will also carry out tasks related to support and the admission of allied forces. The system of command and control and logistics will be improved. Mobilisation times will also be changed. In the command system, part of the competence at the strategic level will be transferred to the operational level, infrastructure will be adapted to the reduced composition and changed structure of the military. The transformation must ensure a new relationship between the categories of members with the advantage of a greater number of soldiers. Career path of members will be established and military education and training will be complemented. The adoption of the Basic Development Programmes Act provides the most important financial source for the realisation of this programme ahead of you. Of course, it will also be essential to have the resources provided for regular military activities in the regular budgets in the coming years. Once again, I would like to stress that this is a comprehensive programme of measures that must and are coherent and interrelated, because otherwise our fundamental objectives of reshaping the army would not have been achieved. The programme also takes into account the very moderate growth in defence expenditure during the period for which it is prepared. Madam Vice-President, I propose that the assembly adopt the draft programme as proposed by its mother's working body, that is to say that it is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft programme was considered by the Defence Committee as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a programme. President, Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable. At its 2nd extraordinary session today, the Committee of the National Defence Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Committee was informed of the draft programme and also of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Legislative Assembly. Following the consideration of the proposal for a general long-term programme for development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, he was presented by a government representative at the meeting of the committee, the Minister of Defence Dr Anton Grizold and his assistants, Chief of Staff Ladislav Lipič and also Miran Bogataj, State Undersecretary of State at the Ministry. The introduction to the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces was made by Dr Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, who, among other things, said that the proposed general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces would replace the programme adopted by the National Assembly in early 2000. He further said that the current proposal was based on proposals for analysis of the situation in the international security environment, the actual material and other options of the country and on an analysis of the implementation of the programme so far. The proposal for a programme includes an overview of the situation in the current development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the starting point for its further transformation. This took into account the fact that some shifts have already been achieved in the transformation process, which should also be built in advance and completed. At the end of his presentation, the Minister of Defence stressed that the document foresees an entire spectrum or package of measures that must be coordinated and linked in order to achieve a fundamental objective, namely the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will be able to carry out two types of tasks: national defence and participation in international peace operations and, of course, others. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs did not have any comments. There was a very broad and thorough debate in which many questions were raised, many opinions and many very important proposals were also put forward. Since you have received the report on the table and because it is quite an extensive discussion, you would not read it all because it would take too much time. I would only mention what has been written at the outset, that it has been expressed that, on the basis of the strategic document under consideration, it will be necessary to verify annually what needs to be done in individual time periods or in the programme for each current year. Finally, after an extensive discussion, the members of the Defence Committee, after a general discussion, found that the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces was a suitable basis for further consideration. No supporting or complementary proposals have been tabled before the Committee's discussion on the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The Defence Committee, at its meeting, has also not drawn up its own follow-up or complementary proposals for a proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In doing so, it was pointed out by the members of the committee that an error was made in Annex 2 of the document, where the composition of the war was miswritten. The Defence Committee agreed with the opinion of the secretariat of the National Council of Law and Legal Affairs that, in the context of the final drafting of the act, it would, in cooperation with the proposer, carry out some minor corrections to the text, purely editorial nature, for which amendments were not necessary. At the conclusion of the consideration of the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the members of the Defence Committee adopted the following decision: "The Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces be considered and adopted." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mr Dorijan Marsič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear government officials! We have recently considered the document Fundamental Development Programmes of Slovenian Armed Forces Equipment for the period 2002 to 2010. We therefore welcome the fact that the present programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces is so fast in the procedure of the National Assembly. Members of our club are of the view that the documents are interlinked, as one defines the directions for the further development of the Slovenian Army and its staffing and equipment, while the basic development programmes provide the means for such equipment. Therefore, Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia wanted to consider this document before the 2002 and 2003 budget was adopted. Given the changed circumstances and the security environment situation and the strategic foreign policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia, which are aimed at multilateral cooperation within the UN, the OSCE, the Partnership for Peace and Future Membership in NATO and the European Union, it seems particularly important to us in this document to build and transform the military and defence system in its entirety to ensure our own security, regardless of our future membership in Euro-Atlantic political and military integrations and alliances. The reduction in the force strength from the target 47,000 members to 26,000 is also essential for a quality facility, which will also require a change of structure between the professional and reserve compositions, the officer, the sub-staff structure and the number of professional soldiers, and will also require the addition of the education and training system, the command system and so on. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia believe that the programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces is a living document, which will need to be monitored and complemented by changes in the strategic environment of the Republic of Slovenia, and in the framework of the concept of democratic control over armed forces, further in-depth discussions on the future formation and systemisation of our armed forces will also have to be held in the National Assembly, in view of the "future" changes in defence legislation. In the light of all that has been said by liberal Democrats and Liberal Democrats, we support the proposed document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go. Is there any other parliamentary group he'd like? SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Youth Party, we have examined the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which sets out basic guidelines for the further development of the Slovenian Army and for its staffing completion in the period 2002 to 2007, and in particular in the part of the personnel transformation of the army, we have substantial substantive comments based on the belief that the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces needs to define more concrete measures to end compulsory military service and indicate methods and models that will allow the transformation of the professionalization of the military. In our SMS we advocate a model of voluntary replenishment of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The fundamental characteristics of this model are the abolition of the general military obligation, which means the abandonment of the institution of the duty of citizens to participate in the defence of the State, or more precisely: to participate in recruitment duties to serve the military service and to serve in the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve. As a result, the cessation of the military deadline for which, for example, a good 13 thousand young people who have reached the age of 18 years are expected this year, instead of a general military obligation, a new way of completion is envisaged to provide that at least 10 per cent of the annual demographic inflow of citizens of a certain age will participate in voluntary military training. The only legal possibility to reintroduce a general military obligation in cases of direct military threat to the State and total assault and occupation is possible. Instead of serving as a military officer, an institute of voluntary military training would be established for a maximum period of four months, allowing candidates who participate voluntarily to become familiar with the basic skills and knowledge of armed conflict and action in such circumstances. If 10 to 25 per cent of the annual recruitment contingent of male inhabitants participate in such training, this means that, if possible, between 1,000 and 2,500 citizens, both male and, if possible, female, would decide on a given demographic restriction for voluntary service of military service. After completion of military training, volunteers will be included in the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve, which will be obliged to serve a specified period of 15-20 years. Their training would be carried out according to training plans with regular annual cycles of exercises and courses. According to the estimated annual number of trained volunteers, the Slovenian Armed Forces voluntary reserve would range from 15,000 to 25,000. Among the participants in voluntary military training, it is also necessary to find the core of future career professional soldiers, up to 300 members per year, as the requirement for the deployment of professional armed forces is a linear increase in the employment of professional soldiers in the Slovenian Army. This also means the introduction of military personnel, civilians working on military duties and civilians into the Slovenian Army, civilians, civilian positions. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we estimate that the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, consisting of the three categories mentioned above, should be divided into between 7 thousand and 10 thousand members. The government in the programme proposal states that it intends to re-examine the scope and structure of the force in 2004 and 2005 and, if necessary, amend it in the light of the level of development achieved and the assessment of the threat and propose any changes in the performance of the civil duty. Therefore, on behalf of the Youth Party's Group of Members, I call for a thorough examination and consideration of our proposal and to begin its implementation before 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Your Honor. In the Social Democratic Party, we support the professional and systemic approach to the long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, both on a legal and, of course, on a real basis. We are also aware that development cannot be without suitable equipment. On the other hand, the Slovenian Army must be organised and equipped to carry out its mission and to be properly organised and equipped, especially in the light of our interlinking directions. On the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account our economic opportunities and abilities in the country. As a result, our intention to join NATO has helped our potential future partners to analyse thoroughly, identify our actual situation and propose certain solutions. They proposed solutions, they didn't ask for solutions. The long-term programme ahead of us takes into account solutions where our capabilities are somehow given as a basis and, of course, prepares our armed forces, of course, in this case at the level of the legal framework, at the level of comparability with those to which we want to join. However, we must be aware that we are not building armed forces for the sake of others, but primarily for ourselves, whether we join any alliance or not. This, however, can be achieved mainly through the accelerated professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I stress this because our system of recruitment and referrals - we have brought it or is on such a border that it is right on the verge of possible before, in fact, as a system, I will not say collapsing, but seriously jeopardise the completion of our units. We are aware of this in the SDS and believe that this document is not only necessary - of course as part of the legislation that is still to be adopted and adopted - but is also necessary, so we will support it in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u78	Have a nice hello to you all. I think that the proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces is one of the more important documents, not because they are supposed to be included in NATO and because they are supposed to be involved in the European Union, but because this programme requires the state itself to defend itself. We must not forget, in spite of taxing the trees in the NATO Pact, then the Pact will not bring us further security if we do not provide it and guarantee it ourselves. This is old wisdom, which is a policy with us and, in the main, government policy, little or no awareness of anything. The proposal for a general development programme certainly also calls for the lifting of the general military obligation. I don't think the general military commitment termination programme is yet quite complete. It is absolutely necessary and acceptable for both the country and the citizens, but it has to be reviewed, refined and considered in a variety of segments. After all, the abolition of the general military obligation had already begun long ago in Great Britain and had not yet come up with the right and most optimal model for this abolition. I therefore believe that there will be a lot of debate in this area, in which the media and the public in particular should be involved, both professional and laziness; after all, lay representatives of the public today are going to the service of military obligation. In this case, the spare military force segment will also have to be processed. Perhaps we could take back the British model, which is part of this segment, but here we also need to take into account the capabilities of the Slovenian budget, because if you enter the reserve, this reserve must be paid at least to some extent. One of the very hot topics is definitely training. Without trained military personnel, there is no good army or, as the old saying goes, such an army. In many segments, we cannot say that the army is good because the commander is bad. And I don't mean the Minister here, I mean mainly the officer's staff, which largely doesn't fit today's military logic, tactics and strategies. There's another thing that's bothering a lot of people. If I take only two cases where two officers who were involved in crimes were allowed to go abroad for the prize. I think that something like this can and can only be done in the Republic of Slovenia, where criminal acts are defined under a political dictatorship - instead of sanctioning itself, they are rewarded. As far as the equipment of the Slovenian Army is concerned, I do not think transparency in this area would harm. And this transparency is not only in the purchase of larger weapons, larger calibers, planes, helicopters and the like, but also in the case of equipment with light infantry weapons and infantry equipment. I think it would be very useful to use domestic resources as much as possible in this area. After all, if certain Slovenian operators and manufacturers are capable and qualified enough to sell both their products and their projects in Western Europe, I think we could also have a place here on Slovenian soil. Once again, I would like to stress that entry into the NATO Pact is not a solution, and I therefore believe that the establishment and formation of European defence integration would make sense in the system of a long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The European specific defence forces form, work and largely do not overlap with the NATO Pact, but sometimes even deviate from the NATO Pact's direction; in particular, they have been retreating recently. I think that the integration of the Slovenian industry into European projects should also be taken into account. I'm talking about military projects here, so it's called, say, aircraft-making. We have experts who are able to cooperate; for example, right now in the production of Airbus 400 M it would make sense to include our people, including our industry, here at least in some segments. And in the end. The amended military law should also be adopted in accordance with this long-term development programme. Otherwise, the Slovenian National Party welcomes this effort made by the Ministry and this work which it has put forward. In addition to certain comments, this proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinion of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Aloise Peterle made a written statement. May be unlimited On behalf of the Group of Members - I apologize. [[...]] On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Aloise Peterle has the floor. I apologize for asking before if anyone else wanted to do it on behalf of the Group of Members, but no one raised their hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! In the case of a problem that is the subject of this agenda item, Slovenia shall take one of the examinations concerning its future. It is not only a question of how much percentage will we devote to the budget for military purposes or to the construction of our defence system. This is about the whole thing that we need to be very careful about. When I speak of the whole, I mean the very area that this is concerned with, it is the defence system and the Slovenian Army in particular, the attitude of Parliament towards this or the attitude of the government towards these programmes and, of course, our external relations into the world. This is particularly true in view of the fact that some of our purchases in the past have not been carried out in accordance with the best practices in this area and that - I think - at least once or twice our credibility in this regard in the international space has been somewhat compromised, if not a bit already. In our parliamentary group, we would not want this practice to be repeated, and we are convinced that it is being helped or that it is being prevented in such a way that Parliament has a clear control or control role here and that things are sufficiently transparent from stage to stage. I think that the past of acquisitions is also characterized by failure, or at least, as I know it, has failed matters as regards anti-procurement, to do so in a way that we are satisfied on the one hand and on the other. We do not have the principle of raising the percentage of the budget allocated to the development equipment of the Slovenian Army. We are concerned only if this raised percentage does not mean a different attitude to the technological, scientific and economic aspects of all these issues. I think of what is known in particular to the representatives of the bill, saying that I mean the various offers of decisive or key or very quality providers of various equipment offering not only in their business philosophy and strategy, I would say, just purchases or just trade, but offering to connect institutions and similar institutions into some new and long-term strategically oriented cooperation. I think that if we can all work together, in particular the executive part of the government, to bring about such connections that this 1.6% will return to us through improved quality or increased competitiveness by linking ourselves in this way with the most modern technologies, then I think that this percentage will, of course, be justified. But if we do not succeed in these things, then we will all be given very likely criticism together, particularly by civil society, which has a slightly different view for such budgetary purposes than the government or most of the parliamentary groups that have identified themselves to support this, I would say, an ambitious development plan. Our group will therefore support this or will not oppose it. However, as it monitors procurement from year to year, it will be extremely attentive to transparency, to respect all the criteria that are necessary here, including all the standards, and of course will pay particular attention to so-called anti-procurement where Slovenia - including its industry and science - can prove itself appropriate or not if the process is misguided. So we want the process to be so guided that we multiply 1.6 for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Now I think we have really exhausted the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Jožef Jerovšek made a written statement to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am convinced that the long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as presented in the present document, is needed and is also well prepared. This document is important for several reasons. Indeed, we are in the stage of an accession strategy to the NATO Pact. We know that a decision will fall in Prague next year, which we are aware of will be a political decision, but that we are in the political decision kit, we also need a proper strategy and a consolidated military structure in that country. It's called a consolidated defense force. The second reason is that in the past period we have not made good use of the funds earmarked for basic defence purposes, programmes and that there have been many irregularities in the equipment under this programme and after this law and that the use of financial resources has been catastrophic, we can say. And not only did we in the technical sense, in terms of equipment, lack of equipment, that this was not exploited, but this equipment contributed to new affairs within the defence forces, to new irregularities, and everything that weakened the Slovenian defence forces against the public and in some way also reduced public opinion or changed the attitude of the public opinion to the need for an adequate defence capability of our defence forces. Another reason is that, at present, there is a tendency for Slovenia to be a European decent country in this area. It is said that we have to deal with various 'quasi pacifists' who do not want pacifism, but fear the political consequences or political significance of the development of the Slovenian defence system and possible accession to the NATO Pact. I claim, of course, that joining NATO is one of the most vital goals and interests of the Slovenian state. Even though we are all aware of this and make it clear, in some way as possible targets we can also be condemned to advocate the militarisation of the Slovenian state. However, as it is written in this programme, we are aware that it is an update in this sense of the Slovenian Army, for its - in some way or absolutely - reduction to become rational and is able to respond to all forms of threats that the State of Slovenia may be at risk. In my opinion, the political consequences of joining NATO are in fact significantly greater and more positive than the current defence needs. However, in the long term, we must not blind ourselves to the urgent need for cooperation or membership in the defence structures of the Western European Union for Slovenia in the long term. If all the political and strategic environment around us will cooperate in this regard, in fact, our environment is already largely linked to the European defence link. And that is why this document is also important, because in some ways it is also the answer to a strong pursuit, we have witnessed to it in our public during the first half of the year, and in particular it has grown rich with the well-known intervention of Minister Rupl. In fact, it should be noted that Minister Rupl's warnings were given in the Saturday annex of Del in April. In fact, he wrote that political forces with decades of political kilometres oppose Slovenia's membership in NATO and the political consequences that such membership entails. Among other things, he drew attention to the very serious consequences that the political activities of such forces with decades of political kilometre and with medium-term connections have. He also warned, among other things, that these forces are directly pulling us into a future Balkan relationship. It is therefore important that, in the form of a doctrinal document, which I consider to be a complement to doctrinal documents in some form, clearly and loudly - and in my opinion as a single one - we should define as a clear concept, for a clear definition, a clear doctrine, a clear strategy of the Slovenian defence forces. Perhaps the concept of abolishing a general military obligation or replacing a recruitment system with a professional army could be further elaborated in this document. However, this can be done in the form of complementary conclusions or transitional proposals. I would also say that this document in some way comes at the right time, in my opinion. The events of September 11 have changed a number of things and have influenced our views in many ways. As we can see, in an international environment, even on European soils, they bring about profound changes. We cannot afford our defence forces to remain buried, to remain conceptually 20, 50 years behind modern trends in Europe, because we must be aware that the political environment in Western Europe is also changing. By not misinterpreting that someone will think that I welcome the deployments of the military forces of some countries that have not yet done so. However, changes are noticeable. These changes in the Federal Republic of Germany and also in Italy must be taken seriously and, although these decisions are now understandable and appropriate, we must also pay attention to their political consequences. In this respect, our defence capabilities must be adapted. And to conclude, for all these reasons, I think that by adopting this we will show some political signal that in our country we are seriously preparing ourselves, that we are serious candidates for entry into Western defence connections and that we have now, as we passed the law last week, on new means for basic development programmes or guarantees for such weapons, that these basic defence programmes or the acquisition of these additional equipment will actually take place in a different environment; that there will be respect for the strategic interests of the State, that they will also respect the technological and technical and economic aspects of our country and economic interests, that the acquisition of this equipment will actually take place and will ensure the anti-encomfortances of the Slovenian industry, that in these counter-operations and in all these programmes will also involve Slovenian science and Slovenian development - that I do not say Slovenian technical intelligence - and that in this respect will ensure that the anti-progress of the Slovenian industry industry industry will also be involved in the development of the new defences, that the transition of the new defences and that they will be translated into non-war years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The debate of the other Members and Members is limited to five minutes. Mr. Jelko Kacin spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate shows, however, that the National Assembly, the Slovenian State and Slovenian politics, especially when it comes to defence and national security issues in recent years, have made great progress. However, I must neither comment nor argue with the statements made by the representatives of individual parliamentary groups, but the debate here is measured, it is rational, it is positive. We can allow ourselves to emphasise at any time and anywhere that there is something in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that Americans would call "Be Partisan Approach"; there is no difference between coalition and opposition when it comes to a constructive attitude towards national security. In this, I can say that Slovenia has made remarkable progress in recent years. The second thing that seems important to me on this occasion is to find out in some way that the Government has understood the call of the Defence Committee to hold the necessary debate before the adoption of some long-term documents. And some of the intentions, some of the documents that we have received are not proof that things have already changed, but allow us to face each of these challenges in a substantive and timely manner in the coming years, in such a way as "Be Partisan Approach"; in a way that will be primarily for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia and for the benefit of increased or needed national security. As has been said today, changes in our army are necessary in any case. But the agreement reached today on the Defence Committee seems to me to be an important traveller. If I have understood the conclusions correctly, we will be discussing in a relatively short time at a closed meeting of the committee all the scenarios, the ones after which we come to membership in NATO as soon as possible, as well as the ones where this path is a little longer. But a timely debate is certainly the best prevention, and above all the opportunity for self-examination and possible misunderstandings to be as low as possible. This is also necessary because of the public debate that we need to have in the coming months, and both from this city, from the National Assembly, as well as from the government and political parties, to tell our people clearly why the consensual definition of joining NATO is so consensual, the time for arguments is yet to come. At this point, however, I think it is important to draw attention to some terminology confusion that often occurs. They're talking about abolishing military duty. The lifting of a military obligation is not the right time. At least in this Chamber, I think we should discuss complementarities and replacements a lot more. Only when we have completed this system of military obligations with a sufficient number of professional soldiers will we be able to start the substitution process. If we go into NATO contact, this replacement will be possible much faster. In short, let me finish. Slovenia is also in the process of developing its defence system in transition, in a transitional period, but this transitional period will be less painful for the country in such debates and with as much certainty and majority support for this proposal for a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army for the country as it could be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. On the proposal for a programme, the Socialist Party's Group tabled a proposal for a follow-up proposal, which is considered an amendment. I am putting the proposal of the Group of Members to the debate. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Sušnik. Mr. Kacin, can you turn it off? Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General. The general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian army has been thoroughly examined in the Social Democratic Party and found that it has one significant weakness, in terms of the completion of the composition of the Slovenian army. We therefore propose that Chapter 2.3 be amended. - The starting point for the further transformation, development and equipment of the Slovenian army, which is stated in the proposal, is: "The Republic of Slovenia will also maintain the recruitment system in the next medium term and on it a thorough improvement of the military and at the same time introduce the necessary innovations in completing with professional members" that this dictatorship will be replaced by ours or within the meaning of our draft amendment: "The Republic of Slovenia will abolish the general military obligation in peace in the next medium term and establish an approach to organising the Slovenian military on the basis of a combination of professional military units and voluntary reserve". It is too much to talk about the importance of the Slovenian army, which defended Slovenia against the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army and forced the Aggressor Army to withdraw and created conditions for the actual and rapid international recognition of Slovenia. After independence, conditions for further development and regular military training were created. Appropriate legislation has also been adopted to provide funds for the modernisation of our army. The rapidly changing situation that characterises the decade after our independence and the assessment of internal circumstances speak in favour of our proposal. The unfavourable demographic movements and the associated projection of the number of recruits, due to a reduction in birth rates, suggest that the number of potential recruits will decrease significantly in the coming years. The end of this decade will thus be at the service of the military deadline, and only around 4,500 bonds per year can be sent if the existing health adequacy requirements are maintained. These facts require an urgent and thorough reorganisation of the Slovenian army in terms of complementarity. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the armed defences of the country and thus the modern and effective military forces, which are still necessary, are at the same time noted that the extension of the military deadline, which is certainly a consequence of the decline in the number of eligible recruits, does not lead to the desired effect, but this is undoubtedly a sufficient number of, sufficiently motivated soldiers in the Slovenian military. Instead of the government's official proposal, we are therefore offering an alternative, which represents a modern approach and follows the general trends in Europe and the developed world. The abandonment of the recruitment system, the abandonment of the general military obligation and the reduction of the number of soldiers must become a fundamental guide to the transformation of the Slovenian Army. The great bonded armies of the Cold War and the totalitarian regime period are inevitable pasts, which are advocated only by those rare officer structures in the Slovenian Army that have not been overly demonstrated in the self-sustaining war. In view of this and in terms of meeting the security needs of the Social Democratic Party, I stress once again, we are proposing to abolish the general military obligation in peace - in the case of war and war, such an obligation would still remain - and we are committed to the creation of the Slovenian Army as a combination of professional military units and voluntary reserve. We believe that the Slovenian Army can become a highly skilled and ethically and professionally responsible institution alone and exclusively by abolishing the general military obligation in peace and by abolishing the recruitment system. The abolition of the recruitment system and the introduction of a highly professional army does not, however, require international collective security, but these requirements cannot be avoided by any country wishing to become a member of NATO. I am sure that, according to the opinions of the groups of Members, you will support our accompanying proposal, in terms of what I have said and as it has been submitted in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the proposal? Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u88	In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support this proposal, as the proposal to abolish the general military obligation is in peace with the guidance of the Young Slovenia Party, which I have already presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Grisold. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Any change in the way modern armed forces are fulfilled is, in a sense, radical, and has radical consequences not only for the modern military organization but also for the entire defence system or its readiness. That is why we have taken the Ministry of Defence very seriously to resolve this issue, and based on the two studies that have already been done, we will present a comprehensive proposal at the beginning of next year, first to the government and, consequently, to the National Assembly. On this basis, therefore, on the basis of the findings of the two studies that have been carried out with us, it will be possible, in my view, to make consistent decisions and solutions. I believe that any preconceived resolution of this issue would be premature at this time, nicely said. I also need to find that the current programme's dictatorship is broad enough and also consistent with point 4.2 of the Defence Policy subtitled by the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly this year in July, allowing for the inclusion of volunteers in military units, of course under certain conditions. That is why I believe or suggest that the National Assembly today, under this proposed amendment programme, will use the word link, "the abolition of the general military duty," does not support and does not accept. In the second part, allow me at least a very brief explanation of the discussions so far. In particular, I would like to tell or assure Mr Jelinčič that Slovenia is very actively involved in the implementation of the common European defence policy, both through the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign Ministry, and that it is a matter of creating or building a common security defence structure in Europe for complementarity between the European Union or acquiring the military autonomy of the European Union and NATO. It's not about competing or doubling forces. Slovenia is cooperating in this context and we know what decisions are being taken. Another time. I would like to assure Mr Peterlet that we are paying great attention to the integration of the Slovenian economy into the anti-supply programme. In the implementation of basic development plans or purchases, if I say so, equipment and military products have been used or around 260 million German anti-supply brands have been realised. But as we have already said, we pay great attention to this question. Last but not least, this is also seen in the establishment of two government commissions, which are currently working extremely effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-11-27-SDZ3-Izredna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants to propose an amendment or a changeover proposal, we are moving on to a decision. We therefore decide on the proposal for a follow-up proposal, as proposed and also explained by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a follow-up proposal has not been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a programme. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the programme has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat for their cooperation. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will move on to the 5th item of the agenda - consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. Allow me to convey to you a message from the President of the National Assembly, inviting the leaders of the parliamentary groups tomorrow at 8:45 a.m. to Room 217 for a discussion. Thank you all very much and good night.
