ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues! Those who have not yet come to the main debate room of the National Assembly are invited to join us. We will continue with the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, at the 28th item of the agenda. We will move on to the last third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I want a good and successful day for everyone. We will continue with the 8th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me inform you of the detention of some of our colleagues; Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Dr. Miha Brejc, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Janez Janša, Marija Ana Tisovic and colleague Jožef Školč from 11 a.m. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I'll be sure to be present. Please press the quorum key to determine the presence in the hall. Once again, I'm picking up a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards and press the quorum key. There are 51 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue this meeting. I say hello to them, too. Today's continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 28th item of the agenda, this is the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in third reading. Then we will move on to a closed 12th point, this is a proposal for an inspection control law, point 4, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act, and then for the consideration of proposals for international treaty ratifications from point 13 to point 21 and in order of order. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is on the third defensive proposal of the civil servant of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft Rules of Procedure were tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Anton Anderić. Does Comrade Anderlich want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft Rules of Procedure were treated by the Rules of Procedure Commission as a working body of the mother. President, Comrade Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Rules of Procedure Commission decided in a four-hour debate, at moments of trouble, on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the third reading prepared by [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	Excuse me for interrupting, Comrade Kontic. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	, prepared by the proponents Anton Anderlič, Miran Potrč, Janez Podobnik and Ivan Kebrič. [[...]] We discussed the amendments tabled by the proponents: the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, the Socialist Party Group and the New Slovenia Group of Members. Of these, 25 are supported by the Commission and 24 amendments were not supported. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party to Article 45 is irrelevant, according to the Commission's assessment. Let me explain here that it is essentially Article 47 in the second reading, which was not amended, and this is Article 45 in the third reading, because there was a renumbering of articles due to two articles which were not adopted in the second reading. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and the New Slovenia Group of Members was divided into two parts and the first part was supported, and the second part was not. This is an amendment to Article 27. The Commission has also received a proposal from the Members of Parliament with the first-signed Leon Kremjar and has summarised three as its own, on 67th and 159th and 285th Articles. The Commission has also drafted three of its amendments proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. All of this is evident from the report. Let me add what is not clear from the report that Mr Pece - like at the meeting of the National Assembly - has proposed the withdrawal of this item from the agenda and has not received sufficient support from the Commission. Allow me to draw your attention to the two amendments to the 27th Article by the Socialist Party and New Slovenia parliamentary group, and to the correction of the report, where we correct the reasoning to Article 213, with the desire to emphasise the obligatory of the deadline for the submission of the opinion of the Council of State and the amendment to Article 282 in the work dealing with the amendment of the Constitution of Slovenia. One more explanation. On page 17 of the review of the amendments tabled, there are three amendments to Article 159. In the third amendment, the explanation and content of the amendment, according to which an error occurred: not in the seventh paragraph, but in the fourth paragraph. The Rules of Procedure Commission proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft Rules of Procedure, together with the amendments of the Rules of Procedure Commission and the amendments which the Commission supports, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much, President of the Commission. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, he will present the position of Mr Sašo Peče, a member of the National Party of Slovenia, followed by his colleague Petan on behalf of the Socialist Party Group. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Allow me to advertise from a bench where there is only a easier view and thus the attitude towards the other Members, because otherwise I do not want to show my back to you, but not to any of the other Members. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, as is likely in all other parliamentary groups, we are aware that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are alpha and the ominous functioning of this National Assembly, that it lays down our rules and criteria and, on the other hand, behaviour and efficiency. However, in all of this and in all of these words, which we have listened to through the first and second readings, we must stress the moment that we believe in the Slovenian National Party that we have omitted from our in-depth and debates so far. It is that the quality of the Rules of Procedure or that, through the quality of the Rules of Procedure, the quality of the laws, as many as individual Members can, of the parliamentary groups can participate in the law itself, which, at the very end of the process, is to live or should live in our society. In our view, the fact that Slovenia unfortunately does not have good legislation, that unfortunately this national assembly is all too often meeting and passing bad laws from its own hands is, in our opinion, a new amendment is only an argument why not to do so or why not support the new bill: because this will reduce the possibility of Members and other stakeholders who want to participate in the improvement of each legislation within our country. We have not tabled any amendments for the third reading in the Slovenian National Party. We have not tabled any amendments because we will not adopt the Rules of Procedure in the final vote, i.e. the Rules of Procedure in the set. We would seem to be taking a proactive part in the substantive changes to the Rules of Procedure, thereby pointing to its development path and, on the other hand, saying in advance that we will not adopt this Rules of Procedure. There has been a tendency to table amendments, but I think it is because of some principle within our party that we have not invested. We do not condemn anyone who has tabled the amendments because, of course, this is a legitimate right, at least for the time being, of all the Members of this meeting. In short, the presentation of the view of the Group of Members, and most of all, we will be in the eyes of what all the groups of Members are aware of, but few want to admit it. It is that this Rules of Procedure limit rights to all of us together. In some respects and in our belief, from a superficial point of view, it makes sense for some parties to reduce certain rights as Members or as Members. But in the long term, and in view of the effectiveness and transparency of the work of this national assembly, we personally find this pointless. Transparency with the proposed amendments or with the new rules of procedure will not be achieved. We will hide the public even more - all together, both Members of the position and members of the opposition. Why? Because we will give the Government of the Republic of Slovenia more power and we will tear this power away from ourselves in such a way that we cannot participate in different debates. May I read or recall some of the facts that appear as new facts under the proposed Rules of Procedure. From the fact that the College of the President of the National Assembly, on the basis of a proposal and inadvertently, will have the power to take over the role of this National Assembly and thus give us part of our rights on purpose, for which we have all advocated in our work so far, to the President of the National Assembly and to the President or leaders of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Because she's the strongest client, and she doesn't go around blurring her eyes. On the other hand, we know that communication can only take place in a timeless sequence. This national assembly or quorum is set up to carry out certain activities for the future through the words. And if we limit words, we will limit activities, we will limit the quality of the laws themselves. With regard to the closure and the obstruction of transparency and thus the public's work of this national assembly, we will, in our conviction, achieve what we fear is in the interest of the Slovenian National Party. This is, say, some kind of apathy of people of the Republic of Slovenia to politics, to adopted legislation and to life with politics. We'll achieve counter-effects. As you know, it is intended or is the tendency of new changes to translate a large part of the debate into the so-called "body cover". All of us are in three, four, five, maybe even seven working bodies, and we know that the debate on the working body is rarely valid, especially because of the quorum in the working bodies, i.e. the opposition-position ratio. And, of course, once again, I will focus on the public and the media, which, logically, cover worse than the meetings of the National Assembly. It is the primary task of each Member, or the fundamental right of each Member, to participate in the debates, to take part in the presentation of his opinions and opinions or in the presentation of the views of his Group of Members, in the debate and in the adoption of a specific law. With the new proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we will deliberately reduce this option once again. We will deliberately reduce our time and performances. We're going to reduce the possibility of filing replicas, which is to supplement the laws. And we have achieved this, right through the debate on the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, that the replicas have started to represent something negative, although the basic purpose of the replicas is, in our belief, only to improve the matter that we are facing. In many cases, we have used the opportunity of MEPs to make positive use of the opportunity to explain our voices; it will also be limited. This right will also belong to the Member only if he has a different position from the Group of Members. However, so far, the instrument or element of the explanation of vote has also provided an opportunity to highlight new developments within the framework of the legislation, for everyone, including the one who generally agreed with the view of his political party, but not entirely. I'm afraid that's gonna reflect everywhere. All elements involved, except the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should be limited or subject to a new proposal in the legislative process, from our professional services in this house to the parliamentary groups, to Members. In short, all the elements are included and we are taking all the rights that have so far been self-evident and necessary to fulfil their work, their mission mandate. In the end, I should be allowed to tell you the following. A proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia came to the National Assembly not long ago. Where a certain part of the amendment or amendments to the Constitution goes, we all know - it is about providing a political dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	The proposal for amendments to the Constitution is not the subject of today's agenda item, colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	I believe you know that I know that, too, Mr Pahor, but in connection with the Rules of Procedure, I think this matter is still absolutely necessary. It's kind of urgent and complementary. We'll take rights with the rules of procedure. The Constitution will give us rights to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This national assembly will not be left with anything else in the future, especially Members, all Members, but only an instrument that you show more and more government Members as something powerful, an instrument of initiatives and questions. But hand to heart, this instrument is this government - let's say - blurred. Members, unfortunately, after these changes, if adopted, we will no longer have this - why people actually elected us; to represent their interests. By proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure, you are destroying the basic interests of the people. It is through the Members that he participates in the debate, he participates in the amendments. If this is the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and of the basic proponents of the law, i.e. the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the SLS + SKD, then I can't say anything else here as: we're sorry and we won't support the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Peca, for presenting the views of the National Party of Slovenia Group. I give my word to my colleague Petan. Please, Comrade Petan, you will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. I hate to interrupt the speaker because of the riot in the hall, but I will be forced to do so if this continues as it has begun today. I ask colleagues and colleagues to do all the work that is likely necessary on such matters outside and not in the Chamber. Please, Comrade Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the third reading of the Rules of Procedure and, as you know, it is supposed to be some already refined text, mainly completed, perhaps just the need for a little ironing, adding some commas and dots and such finesse. But, of course, it is good to ask ourselves if we are already in the third reading, if we even know what we want to do, what we want to do with it, and, of course, if we have done with it what we have done before the beginning of this procedure, which in this case began in the middle of the previous mandate, when the political situation and the relationship of forces in Parliament were completely different and, of course, this has also been reflected in the content of this Rules of Procedure. The new Rules of Procedure have 286 articles, with slightly fewer articles than the old ones, but the question is whether there is less matter, if there is less content, if there is less text. As we can see, it's not like that. Of course, if we are going to make a change, we need to ask ourselves whether the old act, the old rules of procedure, is really so bad, so restrictive that it prevents work when it will be necessary to go into such a radical change. Indeed, the change is not limited to individual articles, and articles are also thoroughly addressed. As it happened, in the third reading, we have some text that doesn't even have the right content. We know that a number of important articles have fallen out, we have abolished some bodies, but we have no others, and, of course, this depends on this third reading vote. In such a way that this text is not as it is supposed to be: it is so refined, it is mainly finished and only needs certain finesse and certain ironing. So it's not just a typical procedure, a legislative procedure, as we imagined - probably not even the proponents. And then the question is whether it really was necessary to change the rules of procedure so radically that it somehow regulates our work in the National Assembly, the way we work, the organisation of work, the exercise of rights and the duties of Members and Members. And of course, if we ask ourselves whether, now that we are in the third reading, we are really satisfied with this text, whether we are really going to improve the organisation of the work with the new rules of procedure, whether everything is really about what is written on paper, or whether good organisation of the work in the national assembly requires anything other than a dead letter on paper, I could say that this does not require any change in the rules of procedure, nor is it because of our way of working. And if we didn't think that I was just talking to myself, I would also like to look at things from another point of view and from the most important point of view, and this is our reality. The reality of how this way of working and organization works in our national assembly. Whether it really depends on the rules of procedure or whether we have contributed something to it, perhaps by not respecting the letters of the present Rules of Procedure and by interpreting it in our own way, rather than in our own argument of power. And look, my dear fellows and colleagues, I will give you some information, and I will begin there at the beginning of our term, which is not yet long. Look, at the third session we had 32 points, of which there were 18 points that had the contents of the law. Of these, eight were transferred to some of the following sessions. At the 4th session we had 40 points, of which there were 30 points of the content of the law, of which 10 were transferred to the next meeting. It was similar at the fifth session, there was even more specific. I'll tell you later. And if we look at these 10+8: 18 points in two sessions were not postponed because of the rules of procedure, because of the bad rules of procedure, but probably because of something else. Probably because of the failure of the laws, because the working bodies were unable to process the laws and prepare an opinion for the plenary session. There was probably something about the lack of coordination within the coalition, not to mention any laws on air transport and maritime transport and the like. And see next thing you know, it's not meant to be me talking. Specific information from the 5th session, which is a little closer to us. From 21 points with the contents of the law, we had 11 after a quick procedure. I'm sure of all of these 11, although I have them written, I'm not going to read them all, of course, because it's a waste of time. Of these, it could have been the only veterinary law, but at the time it was a special period, it could have been one that could have been considered and classified under this procedure. We do know, however, that the current Rules of Procedure clearly state when such a procedure is used for the adoption of a specific law. It is said that we did not simply respect the law, we did not respect the rules of procedure. That is to say, we did not respect that recommendation of ours as to how to work, how to carry out organisations and how to work in the national assembly. And in general, we did not respect what we accepted, not us, but our predecessors. But it's a similar thing, it's a matter of our house. We could also ask ourselves what is so new in this Rules of Procedure that we are witnessing in the third reading now that we can prevent such a way of working and, of course, especially such a way of thinking. The fact is, if the points are not ready or because of poor quality, we know that we have cases where there is a government on each article of the proposal, most often it is a government, more amendments than the articles themselves. Then it's probably hard to work. Therefore, it is no wonder that the working bodies are suffocating, at least some, in the legislative process and cannot reach the place, because even after one amendment has been processed, another amendment to the amendment of the same proposer comes and, of course, this has nothing to do with the rules of procedure. Because of this rule of procedure, it is not necessary to change, but we are once again in the role of the human factor, that is to say ourselves, who do not adhere to the rules of the game, which may suit us the bias and disrespect of what has been adopted. That is to say, it is difficult then to apologize that ordinary citizens must respect the laws that we adopt if we do not respect those laws that we ourselves adopt in the National Assembly. Many times we also have an example of an extension of the agenda at the last moment, because the government and the ruling coalition want to bring the law through the process at all costs and, of course, arrive too late in the National Assembly. This means that we are back at the beginning, which has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. The working bodies deal with the material during the sitting alone - we know that this is contrary to the rules of procedure. We are skipping points; this means that the government can't be on duty in the National Assembly as well, and every minister or government representative comes to the meeting when we have it on the agenda. Given that we have skipped and cannot be planned and here not to defend the government, but I must admit that it is probably not easy for her, depending on our way of work, but this has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. This could also happen after the new one. It is true that there will be more specific deadlines in one way or another. Or: if we do not respect the rules of procedure that we will adopt, as we do now do not respect it - if I do not respect it now, there is no guarantee that we will respect the new one - then it is unlikely that it will be difficult for government representatives to be present at our meetings just as we consider the point. But if we skip them, translate them, procedurally skip points and similar things, so there is no firm guarantee that in the future something will be better if we just count on what the proponents have written into the objectives of the Rules of Procedure in order to settle this with the new Rules of Procedure. It's not going to work out, my well-respected colleague and colleague. If we do not change our minds, this is something that cannot be written down, which cannot be accepted by the Rules of Procedure and by any other act, but we must somehow give it to our soul and our consciousness and our way of thinking. That's not the rules of procedure, and that's us. And what has happened in recent times has been most obvious in preparation for this meeting, and it has had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, this is an uneven distribution of material according to the working bodies. Individual working bodies are overloaded and simply cannot process all this material, process all these laws and, of course, give their opinions, which is correct; the same applies to the law enforcement service. This has also shown that too little professional support for working bodies, whether it is too few professional colleagues or something else, is back to the first article on how to work and how to organise the work of the National Assembly. But there's nothing about it in the new rules of procedure. The new Rules of Procedure remove one working body - now, if this is the most real body, it would not be allowed to go into this, that is for the proponents to think about. However, we have given another body, within the framework of the National Assembly, greater competence to do so. However, this does not solve this problem, in which we have been in these days - that there should be simple meetings during the plenary session alone and the working bodies, during the plenary session, during the recess and after the meeting, to discuss the points for which the applicant wishes to bring them under the roof in any way, I think, in the context of this meeting, which, given the readiness of the points, would not be possible, either in the old or in the new rules of procedure. The new Rules of Procedure are even more rigorous, which is good, which I think is fine. However, I am concerned about this respect for the regulations and the letters of the law of this Rules of Procedure, because whoever once snake drinks is afraid of twisted ropes, says the Slovenian proverb. And if we don't respect this rules of procedure, I don't know how we're going to respect the new one if we just change the paper, what's written on the paper, maybe the canvasses, maybe instead of the previous green ones, we're going to give some other color; we're not going to change anything. We'll probably have to change, too, I don't know, the color of ourselves, our consciousness, that would probably help. The next, which also falls within the framework of the first point of the Rules of Procedure, including the new one, on working methods and organisation, is that the professional colleagues, who we find that we have too little of them and that we cannot go with them in any way, are leaving. At that, I don't know, I can't have enough information, nobody gets too excited about it. As the work goes on, it is unclear to me, because without good co-workers, without good professional workers, the National Assembly is likely to be unable to function, regardless of whether we have a new Rules of Procedure or another new or revised one. I can't do it without my professional associates. After all, we must be aware that the adoption of a single law does not only mean that we vote on a bunch of paper with such content or other content, but it is, after all, reflected in the fact that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must respect what has been adopted. And that's the problem. Therefore, it does not matter what the content of what we accept is because it has great consequences, including financial consequences, it also has consequences for the daily life of all of us in one country. I would even say that we don't care if the experts leave, let's walk them out sometime: okay, let's just go. It will be necessary to do more than amend the rules of procedure so that this work or the work we are doing can be improved and put to a higher level. And, of course, it is entirely justified to ask whether the new rules of procedure that we have before us today will solve this in the third reading. I'm afraid not. After all, we are now at the 8th session. Look at what happened to us in these three days: from the 12 points where we stopped, we skipped three easily because the material is not ready. So we're back on the same page. And you would think that because we're adopting a new rules of procedure that talk about everything that should be done better - it's happening exactly the same. So things are not getting any better, and the new rules of procedure are not going to solve this. What's more, something just came up in this session, something just fell on our head, something that had accumulated for a while. I've talked about this before, and I wouldn't say that again. I would just like to say that, of course, the issues are professional co-workers and the deadlines in which a particular job needs to be done. The new Rules of Procedure are even more rigorous in this regard. That's good. However, it is not good if we do not respect the rules of procedure, whatever we will have. That's up to us. I'm afraid the new Rules of Procedure will not solve this. There'll probably have to be something else. Even any good will, even any understanding of those who think otherwise, is likely also to be taken into account by the opposition, which is disregarded by this new rules of procedure, is written down as a skyscraper, as one who is completely superfluous, we all know that in mature democracies it is the opposite: without good opposition, without strong opposition, there is no parliamentaryism. And we're building Parliamentaryism or maybe something else. Finally, this Article 1 also discusses the rights and duties of Members in this new Rules of Procedure. Now, I do not imagine that these are any rights in terms of privilege, far from that, but rights in terms of work and duty, and, of course, the rights and duties we have in the context of the adoption of laws, within the framework of this legislative procedure. That is to say that we have the right to speak about the matter that we are discussing, which we are also discussing, in order to reach out to the amendments, to prepare amendments, to try to convince those who are thinking differently, to convince those who are right or wrong, to allow ourselves to be convinced; of course, by word but not by argument of power. It is not the only right to vote on another with a number of votes, but to convince him that our content is right and right and that this solution that we have is better than that which has a different position. Of course, in any case, what we accept must be respected. And this is exactly what I'm talking about: we don't respect this basic thing that we have in the National Assembly, it's our policy to talk about how we work and, of course, about organisation and about our rights. Of course, the final decision falls on the basis of arguments of power. I agree with that. It's just a vote. However, this cannot be excluded and the most important factor in decision-making in the legislative process, but this is the final decision, the final phase when it is necessary to define, and this is normal. What is earlier, however, is the right to speak, the right to explain its opinion, and this is the direct right of Members, which, of course, is why we are here, and why the country has such a way of working on the adoption of laws. This third reading, which is before us, is in any case - or should crystallize the view and the purposes of the motioners of this Rules of Procedure. Now, if they hit that right, or if it solves the complications and problems that have arisen in the work of the National Assembly. I'm afraid that won't be the case. In fact, in the assessment of the situation of this Rules of Procedure - I will only state what has been most impervious to me, let us leave the rest, as we can read - is written under number 1 in the assessment of the situation, to limit the duration of the discussions and to round up the rationalisation of the part of the National Assembly. And that seemed so important to me, because I've read it before this well-respected assembly to say it again, and I'll probably do it again. In fact, the rationalisation of the work of the National Assembly is not a limitation on the duration of the debate. Far from it! And dear colleagues, don't mind me, because I may have been a little longer in this introduction, but because of what I am saying right now, I have prepared such an introduction. I wanted to say that it is not all during the debates, but that we have already met in the work so far and also in this mandate with completely different problems that have no bearing on the debates. Incompetence builds, poor material, this is proven in the number of amendments made by the proposer - I'm talking about the proposer, not the others - then the incompetence - I'd say incompetence - preparation on the working bodies, because the deadline was too short or too much material. We have a case right here in this session. That's what they say. Everything else was more wrong. And I will also mention that last reason, which is the disagreement between the applicants or the ruling coalition. I will not cite those laws that were most obvious, but of course very important for our country. But obviously rationalisation is something completely different than reducing the duration of the debates. The fact is, without a good and clear debate, there can be no good law, especially in the light of the experience we have, that laws - in most cases, I do not always claim - are poorly prepared in most cases, or that a matter is overlooked, or that certain things change in the course of time, because the situation on the ground is changing, especially in relation to European legislation. So what the proponents have written down under number one, I don't think it's going to make any difference to the way in which we work and organize our work in the National Assembly. Finally, I was particularly struck in the eye by the next indent, which proves that this Rules of Procedure were the product of a political situation in the previous term. In fact, he is talking about the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, which sets and so on, and the explanation that "the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the non-legislative procedure for the submission of several legislative proposals will be eliminated" and so on. This is a typical political situation from the previous term, when we know exactly what it is aimed at, and this is a bad thing in this procedure. All the solutions that have emerged come from this point of view to prevent the opposition and then to shorten the debates, all possible changes, which mainly fly to the minority, this is to the opposition, because we know that the ruling majority has, in one way or another, the entire executive apparatus at their disposal and that they do not have to make amendments or debates for anything, because in most cases - I do not generalise so that there will be no unnecessary resentment - in most cases the legislative authority does so; therefore, the ruling majority is, and that is why we have it, it is clear, so that we do not waste time by doing so. I would ask you if the college would do so by, as an apology, preventing the submission of several legislative proposals, such as by moving points to another session, of what it has to do with laws that have more government amendments than articles, and by not mentioning the ruling majority again, which can never be reconciled and so on. Sadly, however, the measures are now directed to those who are not guilty of anything. This is certainly the opposition in the Temparliament, which is experiencing great restrictions on words, and this also means under Article 1 of the rights arising from this. Look at why I even mentioned this college and this abuse. Because in this Rules of Procedure, just as it is now before us, Article - this is now even the second amendment of Article 64 - which prevents the opposition from submitting its law at each meeting - just as it is written - and with this limitation, which the College now has, at any moment, the opposition can put forward its proposals for laws, with this amendment, which is even now provided under Article 64. That seems to me, I'll say, unreasonable, but also a bit of an obnoxious attitude towards the opposition, because you give him something, and then on the next page, or with the next articles, essentially, you take it away. Like he won't notice it like you think he's stupid enough not to read it all, he'll settle for that bone he got. But the next minute, this bone will be taken away from you so you won't even have a bone to eat. And that bothers me about what the proponents and the ruling majority have prepared. We will probably have to say something about this in the course of the adoption of the amendments, and perhaps even the proponents will have to say something about it - it would be right if we could think a little bit about and try to understand in this case a minority that could otherwise turn to the next election. That is why I am talking about the minority and the majority, or the ruling majority and the opposition - so that even in this case, the proponents will think a little bit about it if it's really the right thing to do. Given that this third reading made a number of things clear, which was previously covered. I'm not saying that the proponents just had such a bad choice in mind, I don't hope to say that. But given that all this has also been written in the draft Rules of Procedure, a man has a lump in his throat and does not know whether it has been the product of such thinking from the previous term or, of course, now. However, I fear that such a way will not solve the greatest problems we have. Of course, I also need to know that everything in this Rules of Procedure is not bad. That must be so correct. However, what is good is likely to be said by the proposers themselves. The task of the opposition is to draw attention to those shortcomings, irregularities, disadvantages, misdemeanours, delusions, and the like in the proposal coming into Parliament. It's the only way to make things better. So you have to understand that for what's good, I'm not gonna lose words with that. This is what the role of the parliamentary opposition is, and I think that, in the context of the rules of procedure that it puts quite a lot into the basket, it is quite impossible to say so. That must be said, we must be aware of that. And of course, what did we get in this third reading? I could say that the rules we have now, which we do not always follow, which we sometimes play, which we sometimes violate, have been somewhat appropriate and Europeanly comparable. It is true that he could experience certain adjustments. Something's already been fixed. Of course, this does not mean that the article had to be turned over and replaced from left to right and, of course, many things tried to be more precise, which is difficult. After all, our rules of procedure are ten years old - a year up or down - and perhaps with it, with smaller corrections we could still date, after all, the United States still comes with a 200-year-old constitution, indeed with certain amendments, but the approach to it must be the way we try - not as with us when we try to find a hole, how we will play or rule or law, but try to find a new situation in an old act. And that is why the Constitution, which is 200 years old, could not be maintained, but also laws that are six months old or one year old, because we are looking for holes, but not how to adapt the newly created situation to a state that is written down in a general manner enough to be able to find specificities in this act. Unfortunately, I must say here that with this rule of procedure, which we are now amending, I must also say that speed surprises me. After all, the rules of procedure are not of any kind, but it is - well, for example, some also say a small constitution of the National Assembly, with which I fully agree, this Rules of Procedure are some restrictions on the rights of the opposition. I have read this material several times, also changed and everything that has been prepared with the amendments, is huge, hugely limited articles. I do not think that this is good in any law, at least in an act such as the Rules of Procedure which discusses the rights and duties of Members and Members and, of course, organises the work of the National Assembly. I think it would be more appropriate if things were arranged differently, not with restraints. Because every third article restricts something, it restricts - I don't think it's good. Restraint in the National Assembly means nothing more than restricting the opposition, and a minority that is already in one way or another - but I will now move on to a concrete case, given that this rule of procedure has also been written in the previous situation, but in the previous mandate, to the current situation. During this term of office, the opposition is one way or another, we know what it is, is weak, barely 1/3, and if we add these restrictions, which are all written down, are not theoretical, they are not brought from an empty space, but written down, then we think that this will be a step back in the work of Parliament, in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. There is something else that I would like to mention, which I, too, and our Group of Members, have very much to do with. Indeed, we must be aware that the National Assembly is not only a legislative body, it is also a body with a visual role of executive power. If we are aware of this, then we need to know that even the supervisory functions of these commissions that perform this role must have sufficient space to breathe, they must have sufficient space to obtain all the documents in order to accept, of course, the appropriate conclusions. Of course, there are two committees that are most under attack and also listed here, which is the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services and the Commission for Budgetary Control and Public Finance. I think it is particularly important for these two supervisory roles to be well played in this period, especially for finance. For what has been coming on a day lately probably requires the good work of these commissions, these commissions, and, of course, the possibility of obtaining appropriate documentation. But in this document, which is before us in the third reading, even with the amendments, the pliers are already what we have prepared with torment until the third reading. That's certainly not good. I'm not saying it's not good for the opposition, far from it. This is not good for Slovenia. In fact, poor control of the executive power, there should be no role for the position-opposition. Here we can only talk as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we are only representatives of these citizens. When we also talk about the work of these supervisory commissions, it should be of interest to all of us that the work is as good as possible and, of course, that the possibilities are as good as possible, but not that they should even be reduced by this Rules of Procedure. Of course, before this final decision, where there is still room for change, there is probably no great hope that a two - thirds majority is needed. We can see that there is an act before us that limits the right of Members to a word. So it is already in conflict with Article 1 of this Law. It limits exclusively the opposition; as I said, without strong or loud opposition - of course, with concrete proposals, not in mind - we probably cannot imagine the good part of Parliament. What matters most is that the rules of procedure do not solve the fundamental weaknesses of the present one. I think that I have explained sufficiently the weaknesses we are facing and that only when we put in place the restrictions will we not get a better job, we will not get better solutions. This Rules of Procedure also do not address violations of the current Rules of Procedure. That's what you're saying. It doesn't solve the violation of the one that's going to be accepted. So there are no sanctions, of course it's hard to write them down, I agree. But what I'm saying is that not everything is not in the letter that's written, that not everything is in that paper that we now accept is not all in those 286 articles -- maybe it's going to be added or taken away -- but that it's also something else. The next thing we can find out from this is that it gives unlimited power to the ruling majority. Normally, the ruling majority must have power, for if they do not have power, then there is no ruling majority. And it must have all the instruments to realize this power by voting. This does not mean, however, that this power should be misused or that it should be increased by such or other means. And, worst of all, the opposite side to squeeze into a corner, completely disable it. And, of course, then wonder how it could have happened that what had happened had happened that it had been happening for so long and the public had been informed of the dark. That's what this is about. Next. Work and organization in the National Assembly - but here I mean the National Assembly as an institution. Here I mean the National Assembly as an institution, not as 90 Members, who are pressing the keys and, of course, we are discussing individual acts. But also our support, without which of course it doesn't work, all of this remains unchanged. Nothing has been said about some professional staff, better rationalization or better relations, or a different attitude towards executive power, which has many merit, that our work does not run as it should, because bad laws do come. Unfortunately, I must also say here that this very rule of procedure also regulates things that, for example, are not known in the economy, or that this is not how work works. For example, I mentioned in the previous debate some approach or some aspect of a permanent mandate, which is not good. Once again, I would like to say that I have no name in mind here, but I am only talking about the function solely because it seems very important to me. I would say that it even makes better work and better organisation because those who think otherwise and do not agree with this way of working will have fewer opportunities in this mandate, less opportunities for an honest and in-depth word, less opportunities for in-depth arguments. And I don't think that's good. To limit the word is not always in this, well, we will silence you, but it also means some side product and I just mentioned one. After all, the last articles also talk about constitutional changes and, given that we are looking forward to this, there will be nothing wrong with me just reminding you that, given that the Rules of Procedure are likely to be adopted very quickly, the amendment of the Constitution will come in one way or another, in order to be in line under the new Rules of Procedure. That means a lot. Read the 175th Article of this Rules of Procedure. You'll see, for this term, we've just blown it. Let's put this aside. This is the second topic that relates to this, I think is Article 175. I would say that this rule of procedure is as a whole - I am not talking about individual solutions, which are also good - because it was conceived from the wrong assumptions in the middle of the previous mandate, a step back and is a reflection of some political climate and some degree of democratic capacity for dialogue in our country. I am convinced that given that the ruling majority and the proposers have a two-thirds majority and that they can accept whatever they want. It is also such a rule that they will likely begin to hiccup quickly after what we had before, or after we have started the Rules of Procedure, to change again because the Rules of Procedure are a dead letter on paper, if the one we have to follow, the one we have to respect, and the one we have to follow, see only as one book, one set of some articles, and if we do not try to take into account that people have different views and the right to a different view. Parliament is the body where this must best come to terms. Parliaments are to clear up and rewind things from all angles of view, from all perspectives and from all perspectives. On the basis of the argument of power, then the vote shall be taken. However, if it has been illuminated from all angles, it is completely different than if only someone makes a rapid and procedural vote for not having a debate, for not coming on a possible day - some unpleasantness. On the basis of what has been said in our Group of Members, we do not think that this Rules of Procedure as a whole are good. In the third reading, a number of changes would have to be made, something essential. We hope that the ruling majority or the proposers - at least roughly what matches - will have so much hearing for the arguments that will be set out in this procedure of adopting this Rules of Procedure, and that, irrespective of the argument of power they have, they will be able to accept the arguments given by the minority. They can also convince us that our view is wrong. We won't mind, but only if that's an argument. At the moment, we believe that these concerns, which we have put in the form of amendments, are those which could still change or improve this act. Whatever we think is good, let it stay. Let me say the last sentence again because I think it's very important. This procedure for adopting this Rules of Procedure is a reflection of the political climate and the degree of democratic capacity of dialogue in our country, which has been reflected in our Parliament. I hope that this level of democracy will be slightly higher than it was in previous readings and in the previous adoption of other laws. That we can say that not only that paper and the letter of the law written there, but the only true criterion that we are dealing with, but that we are also mature enough to be able to accept the argument of a different thinker and that we are willing to listen to it and take into account its comments. If that's the case, then we can all be happy. But if you don't, then things will be in the known scenario. I'm an optimist, and I hope that it will do what I said in the last sentence. In the Social Democratic Party, we will see what is the dialogue of tolerance in adopting the amendments, and then we will decide in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. The next one has the word of a colleague of Igor Štemberger. He will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia and will be followed by a colleague, Dr. Jožef Bernik, and will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. In principle, when we discussed and concluded each individual Article of this Act in the second reading, the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure should be discussed separately in the third reading of the proposal in its entirety. A bunch of amendments we have on the bench are clearly telling us that's not the case today. This fact can be explained. In setting some vague boundary between saying brutal economic logic and democracy, which is supposed to express itself in Parliament's democracy, there are problems and different views on this democracy. For some parties, democracy means, for example, that, under the new Rules of Procedure, technical proposals for laws which cannot be expected to be opposed may be included on agenda 1. In such a bill, opposition Members are also expected to be shorter in the debates as a rule. This will slowly begin to shape this practice of limiting debates. Other parties consider that rationalisation, which goes into reducing democratic rights, is not acceptable. Restricting parliamentary debates and the position in which the voice of the leader of the parliamentary group counts as many as his group considers Members is illustrative when democracy is taken into account in some headless pursuit of efficiency and rationalisation. Such a proposal for a Rules of Procedure is not, in our view, appropriate. We belong to this second group in the Young Slovenia Party. If Article 23 is amended and our proposals or substantively similar proposals are rejected, we will be forced to vote against it. For we believe that the so-called programming of the debate, in our view, by limiting the debate also by restricting the explanations of vote, violates that basic idea of parliament. We're here to decide. However, the decision is not without the face of different opinions and arguments. This is not without a thorough discussion. The very source of Parliament, the parliamentarians - the Italians have a parlare - the very origin of that word tells us everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. I'd like to invite a colleague of Dr. Jozet Bernick to the speaking room. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Party's Group of Members. He's got a buddy named Potch behind him. Comrade Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will speak on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. I would like to make a few thoughts on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are, so to speak, a different constitution. The current Rules of Procedure have survived for 10 years. Some changes were needed, but not all proposed by the signatories are necessary. Within the framework of current political powers, it is quite understandable that there is a tendency to reduce procedures to soften or centralize. This is what a person understands in every group of Members, but one would think that we do not need to go in this direction. It's actually dangerous. The proposal for changes to the current constitution is, for example, one case that goes in the same direction. There's also a way of trying to go in the direction of centralisation, maybe someone could say better efficiency. But this is totally inappropriate, because the constitution, as big as the small one, is what we call our rules of procedure, should really be well thought out and all changes should be confirmed by the experience of time. We don't have that yet. Undoubtedly, it is possible to achieve the greatest efficiency in a government and political system that is unconstitutional or must change the constitution when it seems to the government and even without serious rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure should be the Constitution for all political situations in the democratic system, both for the current position and for the future opposition and for the current opposition, perhaps a future position. Our country, let me remind you, has a formal democratic regime. Our political action, however, is still not sufficiently consistent with the spirit and content of democracy. Since we do not have a long democratic tradition, this problem is even greater. We are somehow looking for our way into democracy, but we often go into past experiences and try to democratize them, which is often not the case. Let me just mention a few cases. One example is the so-called voter who was introduced into our dictatorship by the current Minister, Dr Rupel, who was even proud to have a voter in our Parliament when he spoke about this matter. This indicates our inability to understand pluralism, which in every country is an essential quality for a good political life. Let us just ask ourselves how many times have we really used in important matters the possibility of political dialogue, which is known in many democratic countries, where Members, regardless of their obligation to their party, see in some problem a thing that goes beyond political commitment and tries to unite together to approve programmes that are extremely important for the development of the country, the future and so on. Unfortunately, we don't have enough. Not this one, not the current one, not the next one. This is about the spirit of pluralism. Let me mention another example of what it looks like. It was kind of a shock to me when I was watching this thing. Let's say we take the last budget. The opposition parties tabled some more than 60 proposals, amendments, but on the Committee on Finance and Financial Policy we found ourselves in a situation in which the Minister of Finance, at each amendment, said that the government did not support it. By some means, Paul's parole, reflex, all the MPs of the position, the coalitions voted as the minister said. Except for one amendment, I think, which was tabled by a member of the minority. The same thing happened here in this hall. None of the amendments were discussed as they should have been. One could expect that between the 60 amendments was one that was extremely important for the segments of our citizens or something like that. At that time, I suggested in a joke that instead of going through such a farce, the government should express itself in a law that has many amendments, it said "we do not support these amendments". Then I would simply say, "Well, if you don't support them, we won't even vote, nothing." This would save us a lot of time if we were to change the rules of procedure to save time. This, of course, should be to think that we are Members of the automated party to which the government, whatever, exerts pressure when it likes and Members react. Thus, no change in the rules of procedure can solve such situations. But there are other things that the rules of procedure might have saved, and the ruling coalition did not think of that. I'll just give you one case. In the current Rules of Procedure and also in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, there will still be a diction that a rapid procedure for the adoption of legislation can be carried out in three situations. I will limit myself to the first one to say that this procedure is used when it comes to emergency needs in the country. Recently, on the Committee on Finance and Financial Policy, I asked whether this phrase was defined so that we could have some criteria on which we are assessing whether there is any proposal for such a hearing. However, no one could answer that question. It has been warned and this was done by the chairman of the Committee, which I thought made sense that it might be appropriate to send this question to the Rules of Procedure Commission and to set certain criteria there. I am surprised that this issue has never been resolved in previous references. However, in order not to owe my previous appeals, if they have been demeaning, I must say that, as I have been informed, there were not as many proposals for a rapid procedure as in the current reference. Now the question is also raised here how the government, which is supposed to determine or request and ask for a speedy procedure, deals with this or what reasons it gives. Some reasons are very bad. I think the Rules of Procedure should require the government to state specific reasons. We know what's behind it. The great trap lies in giving this opportunity to great government manipulation. The second thing that has already been discussed here is points whose changes to the Rules of Procedure will not be able to resolve. One is the readiness of Members at the agenda items of the committees and also of our meetings. When we get the opinion of the secretariat or any other panel of opinion at the beginning of the meeting, we will soon come to a vote and there are also Members who probably did not have the opportunity to examine the matter that was put to the bench. It seems to me that this is absolutely unethical and that it would have to be arranged. The Rules of Procedure shall not speak of the confidentiality or confidentiality of documents. Let me mention two cases that happened before the holidays. The first case was the draft border agreement. The contract was an annex, which is said to be an annex, but no documents under that point. These were geographical maps. As soon as I got this thing in my hands, I asked them to get these cards, so we have the opportunity to review what we're talking about, because as a nongeographer, I didn't understand the explanation in the text, but I would probably understand the cards. First they said there were too many of them, then we came to the conclusion that this was a state secret that the government had set. We know how the whole thing developed. It is true, however, that we received these tickets multiplied into a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and were later distributed to us. One would think that someone preparing the contract cannot send this contract or draft contract forward for consideration for approval if not all the documents have been submitted and explained. The second was the draft contract for the Krka Power Plant. Also there was an annex, to which, if I recall correctly, the entire financial structure was described. It is said that which of the parties will pay the other party so much and so much money. But no numbers. So if a man wanted to judge the financial value of this contract, he couldn't have done it. I asked the Minister for the Environment, who was at the meeting at the time, what does that mean, and I didn't get an answer at all. Even today, I don't know if these numbers have ever been submitted to anyone. It seems to me that the Ministry, which submits such a flawed contract or document, is either making fun of us or it has no confidence that we will not use this information, which is supposed to be classified. Nor does the Rules of Procedure provide for this. I think it would be necessary for the Rules of Procedure to also stipulate that, until all documents are on the table in time, including those from the government, we are not starting to discuss them. I would also like to say that the National Assembly should open up to the public much more than it is, so that our citizens are informed about things, not only that, but also that they are given citizenship education. This would also force us Members to prepare ourselves well to discuss important things. This would also help us to grow in a democratic direction. This means that all the meetings of this assembly should be on television from the beginning to the end. This proved to be very good in the United States, and it also showed how much more attentive Members are to what they are saying and to whom they are speaking. I think that, in a somewhat expensive way, we could save a lot of time and unnecessary debates. Often our citizens wonder whether our demands, our needs, when they were presented in the national assembly and how. Of course we all depend on "flies," if I may say so, daily newspapers, other media and so on. It would therefore be necessary for something to happen here in the rules of procedure in this direction as well. Others, my predecessors have already talked about how it would be necessary for Members to have more time and more opportunities to respond to problems, to have a good discussion, to have substantive discussions, and also to have a real dialogue. Nor does it specifically mention this Rules of Procedure. In addition, it takes time for answers, replicas, and the like. The essence of democracy is to put things on the table, to talk about them, and then to clear up all the things that are involved. Actually, we don't do enough. I don't think the rules of procedure that are being adopted will solve the question of the spirit, the issues of the content of our work. Although it is an aid to giving us a technical map for our work, I do not see much of democracy in this Rules of Procedure and this Rules of Procedure will not bring what is expected. Just the opposite. I think most decisions will now be passed on to the councils as well as to the college. We Members will just have to accept what comes from there, if we are or are not satisfied. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bernick. I'm giving my word to my colleague, Miranda Potsch. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Before you begin, Comrade Potč, let me just inform the National Assembly that Members and Members will come after him in the following order, so that you will be better prepared. Comrade Drobnic, Jerovšek, Peterle, Visjak, Kelemina, Tukjat, Pukšič, Barovic, Sok and Mamič. My friend Run. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I take into account the importance of the Rules of Procedure for our work together, but I do not idealise its contents, nor the fate of its role. I am sorry that I have been one of those who, by definition and even by duty in the last eight, ten years with the questions of the Rules of Procedure, have done a lot of talking about the Rules of Procedure most of the time when things are unordered or out of order, and many times very much in mind. We do not have enough in common to implement and implement it consistently enough. If we are today discussing the new Rules of Procedure of the Third reading State Assembly, then it is only right to point out that this step has been taken at the request of many Members and Members of the previous reference and that I have been in this appeal to the previous one, who I am several times, whenever it has been discussed how the new Rules of Procedure will save all the warning that we should not make any illusions about it and that I was the only one who said that the existing Rules of Procedure could be implemented more effectively. I want to say that, if we thought together at the time, including the members of the opposition at the time and today, we could have approached the problem in a different way than through the creation of a new rule of procedure. However, I am convinced today, on my behalf and on behalf of the Group of Members, that it is right that we have done this work and that we are trying to complete it today. As regards the importance of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that its role is one of the elements of our way of work. For me, the first and most important element is still the scope of work. If we have as much work as we have done in recent years, then I fear that any rules of procedure will be able to be implemented ideally or well. Then, once and for all, one of us, even when the opposition, not just the coalition, will claim to be more effective and let us do more because the mountains of paper will simply wait for us for all the next sessions. The second reason, the same or even more important, for the quality of our work, is the quality of our proposals. As long as we receive mainly controversial proposals of quality, such as will have to be substantially upgraded by the National Assembly, such as will be substantially upgraded by the Government itself in the stages of the legislative process, as a major candidate, so long as it will be very difficult to work quality in the National Assembly even under such or different rules of procedure. The third is certainly dependent on the rules of procedure and the way it is implemented. Four. Although I am a coalition Member, I will say that how we implement the Rules of Procedure and how we work depends very much on the government's attitude towards compliance with this Rules of Procedure. So far, the government has not been very careful to comply with the rules of procedure. I would like, if it could be ours, to say that a common contribution to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure is also the direction of our coalition and the opposition, that in the government they are much more aware that we are acting in accordance with the rules of procedure and that they are helping them, but not that many times the procedure in the government is really thought to be very difficult and important. I'm not saying it isn't. But that in that moment, when it is finished, it is also complete and that Members have only the task of following the direction given by the Government not to think much, but to vote. It's not like that, but it's often very close. Until the government has changed its attitude towards the National Assembly in terms of respect for its role, it is likely that the issue of regulation of the Rules of Procedure will help. But I'm not entirely sure. And the last. It is also very much up to the Members of the European Union, the coalition and the opposition themselves. We coalition Members can not be organised enough to prepare things thoroughly. But I will say very directly, I hope that there will be no offense, because some of you have also said on behalf of the groups of Members. Of course, it also depends on the opposition Members whether the Rules of Procedure are respected in a creative way, whether they are also trying to abuse it, whether amendments are tabled by content to seek solutions, or consciously not to be accepted and later to be said "we have tabled 30 or 50 amendments and no one has been accepted". However, many have been invested because in the real world, simply by content, they cannot be accepted in this way. For all this I think it is right that when we adopt the rules of procedure, I hope that it will be adopted, we are aware of all these elements and we are trying to do more for our work. At this point, it is my opinion that our work is not bad. I am sorry to point out, in particular, the shortcomings in it. I am convinced that in many ways it can be improved by the rules of procedure, and in particular by different practices. I'd be happy if we could help with that. Second, in a few sentences. I am truly sure that the applicants did not have those goals that we have tried many times or that the opposition is trying to demonstrate in public. Rationalisation in some cruel or inanimate way, restricting the right of Members that we did not have any objective to prevent the operation of the Members or the opposition from becoming mechanical only by pressing buttons rather than by debate. I am not saying that any of these elements are not easily present. If practice shows that it is excessive, I believe we will be ready to look for better solutions together. That's basically not the case. I would like to say that if the collective willingness to seek solutions from the applicants, as well as from the opposition, was different from the beginning, there might also be a better solution. Look at why I'm saying that. There was virtually no discussion at first reading on the parent's working body. We all claim that, according to the rules of procedure in force, the first is very important because it speaks of the concept of inker forming basic guidelines on how to upgrade the concept. Nevertheless, in the second reading, it was adopted, according to my record, 94 amendments or about 100 amendments to more than a third of the articles. It is not true that many of the things the opposition has proposed at this stage have not been accepted. Today, too, there will be about 30 amendments, or 30 articles, as proposed. In short, from submission to final adoption, the Rules of Procedure have experienced important improvements or important changes, many of them based on discussions and warnings by the opposition and which we have drawn up by the proponents. It is not true that the rules of procedure are followed by a mold and without any thought. It's about the basic objectives. I'm just going to say it for a minute, because I think it's okay to point them out. A very important element of this new rules of procedure is an experiment or a desire or a goal, the basis for which is created to better programme our work. He's not a colleague, he's not one I've never heard of complaining about poor programming. We all said that. So talking about this and trying to programme the work of the National Assembly better is certainly our important goal, which would greatly contribute to our doing better. This objective will be achieved through forward-looking plans, through agreements on how they are included in the agenda of the item, which will be agreed on in a timely manner, where working-body meetings will also be agreed, because we will be prepared for individual issues. There's something else I'd like to say. I would also like to help in this way so that Members can come and be better prepared for meetings. The restrictions laid down in this Rules of Procedure for all of us also help. Five days before the working body and five days before the National Assembly of Amendments. Report of the secretariat 48 hours before the meeting. Even amendments by the proposer only to those articles which have been tabled at least 24 hours before the meeting. We won't be coming to meetings any more, so I'd say we're getting papers. If we stick to this, it'll get harder for us, but easier because we can get ready. To talk about limiting debates - colleagues and colleagues, I do not know how this will go - but the mother's working body will determine the essential content of an individual act. The National Assembly is no longer the one setting out the essential content of the plenary session. He discusses, he says, - this option is given - but it does not determine the essential content. Whether we will be able to organise ourselves in such a way that we will make a big shift in our way of thinking also in the parliamentary groups, that we are now becoming the most important work in the working bodies and that many times what has been done in the working bodies cannot be changed in the plenary session. We'll see. Look, for example, at yesterday's session. How many amendments have been tabled for the sitting itself. In particular, they were put by the opposition. He has that right. After the rules of procedure have been adopted, and we have voted very or very hard on these amendments. I don't want to judge whether this was done consciously or because the knowledge hadn't matured before. It could be the second, but it could be the first. Only in the future will it be impossible to do this. I think it is better that this can no longer be done in the future, because it will be a greater responsibility in quality decision-making. Look at yesterday's session. I hope that my colleagues from the relevant working bodies have informed me correctly when there were no serious concerns or serious debates on some of the laws practically on the home working body. Yesterday, representatives of the opposition groups presented very serious problems and concerns about the law itself. I believe this has been done because knowledge or knowledge has occurred at the final stage. However, I can believe that this happened because they knew that the presentation here was more possible for public access than it was for the working body itself and said that the working body was irrelevant and that important things would be better said at the national assembly. It won't be like this in the future. It is probably right that we are only aware of this and that the role of working bodies will be greatly increased. I submit that the conditions for law-making following urgent, rapid and reduced procedures are slightly changed, and I do not say that enough. They've been altered a bit. It is not true that the law still permits investment under an emergency procedure due to the emergency needs of the State. This provision is no longer available. It's different, it's more precise. There must be a reason to avoid irreparable harmful consequences. It is true, however, that this is also a general concept whose content will have to be formulated. I hope that there will be fewer urgent and shorter procedures and that we will be able to work better. If we continue to agree primarily on urgent and shorter procedures, then I agree with all those who say that the new Rules of Procedure will bring nothing, because everything will happen as it is now, directly at several or fewer sessions of the National Assembly itself, with interruptions, with the work of working bodies during the meetings. We'll all be in a bad mood. The quality of the decision will not be the best. I think that - and perhaps the government is not aware to a sufficient extent - we have also restricted the rights of the government as a major proposer. The government can no longer come with a multitude of amendments to the proposals it has made. I think this is the right thing to do and that progress is very important in this rules of procedure. Up until now, we have been the worst of wills, like coalitions or opposition, when we received a hundred members, then in the next phase of the fifty articles of amendments or the whole concept was placed on the head. This can also improve our quality of work. It could still be listed. It is not the wish of the applicants to limit the quality and content of the debate or the functioning of the opposition. If something like this happens in practice - as far as I am concerned - the business commission will be very pleased to discuss this, or if the initiative of the leader of the parliamentary groups will be given in cooperation. But it would be good -- and I would like to -- because we have brought things this far -- although, I say again, even the second way would be possible, but this is the path we have chosen -- let's test the acceptance and then the implementation of the new rules of procedure. I think that the rules of procedure, even if there are any shortcomings in the good solutions offered primarily in the legislative process, will only give us the basis for greater programming of our work, so that we can do even more effectively the difficult and responsible role we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. You have concluded the performances of the representatives of the Group. The following colleagues applied to the debate without restriction [[I will read again in order, as they will get the word, because there has been an agreement change in order]] : Sok, Drobnič, Peterle, Vizjak, Kelemina, Tukjat, Pukšič, Barovic, Mamić, Jerovšek and Podobnik. This is the order of the applicants. First of all, I invite my colleague Sok, my colleague Drobnic, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members. I'll start where my predecessor ended up when he said there was no desire to limit the opposition. So if that were the case, then this opposition would not see and would not object to some of the purposes of this Rules of Procedure. If the proponents had a desire not to restrict the opposition, then my answer is simple. We would accept what the opposition has proposed, not that the Priory has rejected the amendment over the finger, irrespective of the arguments we have put forward in this regard. One of the proponents said that if the debate at the first stage of the committee were to be valid and that there could be different solutions, but this is precisely the rules of procedure that we are adopting today, it is putting an end to the first hearing in the future. So this matter will no longer be possible in the future. That's where he defied himself. How did things go at second reading? I would ask if you could calm down the president of the LDS Group because I have a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Comrade Sok, before I give you my word that we will not name those who disturb you now is one, now the other. Everyone's in the way of a speaker. I think we have a duty to respect your and any right to present your views in an undisturbed manner. Please continue and everyone else will be at peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	I guess I'm not supposed to say anything new, 'cause not really, 'cause a lot of this has already been said. I'm still going to say something new. When the amendments were being discussed in the second phase, I replaced a member of our parliamentary group. I've had a lot of comments. The debate has stalled and, in all our arguments, we have been over-voted. That session and the protest committee chairing the Rules of Procedure, colleague Kontič said to me, "Good for you to go, we will sit here for at least less time." So we weren't even wanted to sit there. When you get such concerns and incentives for work, you ask yourself what is really in this promise: "We do not want to restrict you". The Serbs invented a good sentence for this and said "promising, cheering people". So we're definitely aware of that. Dear fellow Members and Members! We would like to see the Rules of Procedure allow for a democratic principle for all parliamentary groups. It's from the smallest to the biggest. Many of you were sitting in this Parliament or in another space when you changed the Constitution and wrote down a proportional electoral system with a 4 per cent threshold. In fact, you have allowed so many and so many parties to enter Parliament. Now we have eight. Now we would like those small ones who have only four Members - because this is the smallest number that can come into Parliament - to limit through the Rules of Procedure so that they can table amendments, laws that I am not talking about supplements to the budget and so on. What's the logic here? Isn't this about a two-faced game? So, if you have made it possible and in this way changed the Constitution overnight, then let us also adopt such rules of procedure that they will feel equivalent to a parliamentary group that counts for the maximum number of Members in this House. Who guarantees that you will also be the largest parliamentary group? Let's write this little constitution, as some people call it, in that way. The fundamental principle of this Rules of Procedure is to rationalise time, it is said that Parliament would work more effectively, faster. But I ask you, wasn't there the most time here in this House - and about this speech today - used to coordinate coalition partners? I could count certain laws for you when you've coordinated here in Parliament and communicated to the public through the media, I don't know, "we got there and there," and so on. It was here that we opposition Members could observe. Moreover, it has happened that a member of one party has coordinated here with his own minister. A couple of hours. It is said that we are wasting and wasting time on these matters and not on matters that Members have a little more time to talk. Where should Members speak if not in Parliament? I don't know. The government representative said what Parliament meant. The last time I had the opportunity to be in Brussels on the Agriculture Commission there was also a fellow Member Kavčič - I told them, "Look, they have no time to discuss here." They applied as they applied, and the chairman gave them the same word. I agree there must be a rational use of time. But to go on for two minutes, for five minutes and so on, to stop the opportunity for the Member to say what he meant to further explain and so on, and this does not seem logical and not meaningful to me, my esteemed colleagues, who have prepared this. We are approaching the European Union. And in these manners, we're kind of moving away from it. That's another thing. Why lock yourself up in front of the public? What, then, should we gain by keeping the college sessions separate from being under public scrutiny? As a Member, I would like as much as possible to have the public present, because only he can evaluate our work, he can give us his instructions, he can ask us questions. At the moment, political parties have the lowest reputation in Slovenia - I watched the politbarometer for the month of August. The Slovenians are highly under-estimating them. I ask you, all of us, the opposition and the position, what are we going to do to raise this reputation? That's what I'm worried about. I'm not saying I haven't overstepped some manners myself. I'm so sorry. I've just been provoked in some cases in this direction. If we opened ourselves up to the public, if we allowed only — this one — to get to know our work more thoroughly, the public reputation would also rise slightly. Where should people, for example, see their pattern if not in state institutions and in different forms of civil society? We could talk about this in broad terms. According to our Rules of Procedure, we now wish to transfer most of the works and decisions to the working bodies. But I'm asking you how. Individual parliamentary groups are small. How will they work in these working bodies? How will the representative of the Hungarian minority, for example, work? How will she defend this interest? Here in Parliament, with only one matter, with the law on librarianism, she wanted to convince Members that it is important and urgent that Hungarians have the material where they want it, it is said, in the Lendava Library. There has been a broad debate. One was in, one was in. How's she gonna do it again? Will it be enabled? I don't think so in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. She didn't ask for much. Different views on this problem have shown that most are against. However, at least the debate was a glassy one. Once this is addressed in the workplace, there will be no public debate. The same thing happened today on the Agriculture Committee. Since the government is late, we have introduced a law on the elimination of the effects of drought - or what it is already called with that long title. Do you know what they've done on this working body? They simply voted that this law was not appropriate and that it should be withdrawn from the procedure. It is said that the National Assembly will not say anything about this procedure. The public won't know anything. We, in the opposition, do not find such solutions to be right. We still need to discuss these matters thoroughly so that this matter is also ripe for further consideration. I'm sorry if I said agriculture. I mean, on the infrastructure committee. The process involves the formation of new municipalities. When this Rules of Procedure are adopted, there will be no further discussion, but the leaders of the Liberal Democracy are already writing under the headlines "new congregations will be, there will be no referendums". We'll say no. But - won't you violate the Constitution? Who authorizes you to make such statements if Parliament does not discuss this at this time? You're probably counting now that he probably won't discuss it, because he'll be on some board, on some body where they'll come. [[...]] How should the working body decide when alternate Members come to the working body? The alternate Members don't have the materials with them, let alone look at them. That's not a criticism. That's the conclusion. They can't because these materials are too much and just can't be read. And how easily we passed the Road Traffic Act. Of the 15 members on the Infrastructure Committee, 8 were replacements. They voted in favour of things they did not even look at. I have to say this on this occasion. But the law was passed. Now there's a change of law in the process. Because this is the way we work, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not in the image of this national assembly either. These deadlines and restrictions on the application of laws, on the application of amendments, on the debate itself. I don't know. I don't know, until 12:00, 24 hours, 5 days before and so on. So Members, who do not have some professional co-workers, will put an enormous burden on us on these matters. I can't imagine how I can guarantee all this. The Rules of Procedure should be simple, transparent, in order to rationalise our work as much as possible, not to prevent this work from actually being prevented by various hands and obstacles. In this debate on the law in its entirety, since we will also talk later about individual amendments, I would like to mention that some of the amendments already adopted are a little unsustainable in this Rules of Procedure. This is the case, for example, Article 134, which in its second paragraph states that the President will be able to assess the outcome of a possible vote on the basis of the debate. I'm asking you, where did that come from? What does that mean? Thus, the President will be able to assess, on the basis of the debate, what will be the outcome of the vote and declare one way or another. Forgive the expression, but this places us more in the Taliban regime than in the European system of the European Union. So I cannot agree with such solutions in a rule of procedure, which is supposed to represent a democratic principle. And, of course, these are such things, Mr Potrč, which are why I cannot support this Rules of Procedure. Once again, if it were the wish of those who prepared it, the opposition would cooperate accordingly. We didn't have any terrible demands. If we were to operate as a normal country, we would, of course, have written down the rules of procedure, but the two supervisory commissions are the Commission for Security Intelligence and the Commission for Budgetary Control and Public Finance, so that the opposition has a majority in them. This is not what you want because you write this Rules of Procedure and decide everything about the current situation. I would very much like to hear, Mr Potč, how would you have responded to me that there has always been a rule that in these two supervisory commissions the opposition had a majority, at one point when you had sufficient support in Parliament - and that is nothing bad, so the Slovenian voters decided - but why you went to change it. How, though, should the opposition exercise control if it does not have a majority in the working body? How can he do that? So it requires, I don't know, one or the other commission to decide whether or not we can get something and so on. Of course, this is no rationalisation. It's more of a complication and a lack of normal work. All of us together should make every effort to resolve these matters in this way. What can we do now at this stage? We can still do this by re-examine what you are actually proposing and what you are expecting, what you are asking. We can end this debate before the vote on the amendments and agree once again on what solutions would be acceptable to all. That would actually be the most generous move of the ruling coalition. You have the majority to do this. I know you won't, I don't have to nod, but we're offering you a hand in this direction. So, you can still do this, and let's say we make rules for this situation, that you're one in a position today, tomorrow we'll be the other, and so on. That this issue will not change the current political situation in accordance with its manner every time. I conclude with this, but once again: Parliament must be the place where Members get their role, where Members are given time to debate; Parliament cannot be a place where we will sit and in a minute, two, three to vote a law and then declare Parliament as a state institution that works for citizens and works very well for citizens. If what happened in the four years, I do not know, the 70 laws adopted by the National Assembly ended up in a constitutional court and most of these constitutional courts have also repealed certain provisions or individual articles or kept the law in its entirety, then we can find that this Parliament is not doing well. It is said that it works too quickly not to include sufficiently different professional institutions. This happened in the end in the wake of a very brazen law on artificial fertilization. That's where this thing turned out the most. If we had listened to the opposition at that time at least partly, we would have demanded nothing more than to calm this debate down a little so that we would not accept such an important law on horror, but nothing could have been done. The session was suspended. When you had a sufficient majority, you voted and you confirmed the law. Then who else should trust you? It's not possible. Well, on that, of course, trust falls. What happened later: more than 500 million, more than half a billion Slovenian Tolars were wasted. I'm sure if the referendum were to end differently than it was for the media to "fasculate" us, as our president used to say. Because it was in other relations, everything was quiet and everything was calm, and in fact no one was responsible for it and no one was responsible, it was a matter of course, dear colleagues, I must tell you, at the expense of you in the great coalition. Therefore, once again, I suggest that we take advantage of this experience from the time period in adopting this Rules of Procedure, and that we calm the matter a little bit. We can still sit together and say where are the things we're proposing and what we can do together. Perhaps the Minister of Finance will also help us to do so a little, which he has now joined us. I would end this and call on you to have a dialogue and to adopt a Rules of Procedure which will be the Rules of Procedure for all Members and Members, but not just the Rules of Procedure for the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Sok's performance is intended to be replicated by Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In accordance with the current business provision, I would like to replicate to my fellow Member Sok in two matters which I believe have not been fully interpreted or have a different view of them. First, it concerns limiting the debate. The other concerns, if I may say so, the discretionary rights of the President or the President. The debate of Mr Sok's fellow Member, as well as the debate of the honourable colleagues in the introduction, on behalf of the groups of Members, leads me to believe that we have not fully followed the rules of procedure in force. The third treatment should focus on discussions on individual amendments. But not to say, speaking along, left and right, so to speak, I would say contrary to the rules of procedure in force. But according to the replica. Firstly, the issue of the discretion of the President of Parliament. Comrade Sok, I would like to inform you that this is true in many European parliaments as well as in Canada. Speaker is, according to his elementary attitude and role, the person who has the greatest confidence in Parliament and most powers are discretionary. He makes his own decision. And all trust him, for he is always fair and right. In these parliaments, the Rules of Procedure are referred to as the current rules, standing order. This is summed up in years or even centuries of practice and this is true there. There, the President of Parliament, in this case the speaker, enjoys such a reputation that without objection, everyone trusts him. That is to say, some of the elements of discretion that have been entered into this Rules of Procedure are very few, are correct. This will be a great responsibility and a difficult task for the President and Vice-Presidents. These decisions will also stand and undermine their credibility and credibility. You will see that this is not a wrong decision, but a very responsible and difficult decision for the President and Vice-Presidents. The second topic, however, touches on the issue of limiting debates. You mentioned your experience in Brussels when you were with your fellow Members at one of the working consultations. I've been asking around. This was a working body covering agriculture in the European Parliament. You've got it right. There is no limit to debate in the working bodies. And that's right. Now I'll be very clear, even as a proponent. I understand the provisions of this Rules of Procedure in such a way that there is no restriction of debate in the working bodies. In order not to make a misunderstanding, paragraph 56 states: "For working-body meetings on issues not specifically regulated by this Rules of Procedure, this Rules of Procedure shall apply mutatis mutandis to meetings of the National Assembly." I publicly say that I also understand the provision, the content of this provision of the Rules of Procedure, that we will not limit the meetings of the working bodies of the debate. That's how I understand. If you mean this article, then it's one. However, I would ask you not to in some way disinterpret when you mention European experience and say that there is no limit to debate and you mention working bodies. They're not there, and we won't have them. Just one more thought that is linked to the content of parliamentary work or to parliamentary dialogue in Parliament. It is not the key length of the debate, it is the content that is crucial. I am firmly convinced that the nine-year experience in this National Assembly is that some solutions will challenge us to be more structured in debates and thoughts. That we will say things as they are, that we will not improvise, that we will prepare well, that we will act with arguments, with emotions, with a relationship, and we will say more and better in a short time. If this direction is recorded in this Rules of Procedure, I will not lose anything here, my fellow Members and my fellow Members. And another thing, parliamentary skills, the skills of a Member and Members is to find, within the framework of the business provisions, all the ways that are written there to use them with culture, I would also say with political wisdom, also with cunning, but to respect them. I would like to invite my colleagues together to try to vote on good solutions today and to support the Rules of Procedure at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the replicas, first to Mr Sok and then to Mr Barovic, allow Mr Podobnik, Article 196 of the present Rules of Procedure says that in the third reading, the National Assembly is discussing the proposal in its entirety. So now this is the part we're doing. So to be clear. Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Half of my replica has been answered by the President, my respectable colleague Podobnik, so I don't need to read you the existing Rules of Procedure. Now, as far as your understanding of Article 56 is concerned, it may be the same. And I already understand him differently. You see, we've come up with different interpretations. So write in the 56th article and that's why I say, let's take some more time and finish these things. I understand that the rules of procedure are also used as such for working in working bodies. But if it is different there, then this should be written in the rules of procedure. As far as Brussels and us. I just said this experience that I have, but it has to be said that we don't have, I don't know, a 100-200-year-old democratic tradition, just ten years old. If I had time in this replica, I could count a lot of things where things didn't go that way. One introductory, when, say, my colleague Kontic told me that then the debate would be shorter, if I left, it wasn't in the spirit of democracy and so on. But let's leave it at that. As far as the President's discretion is concerned. I very much agree with you. And I also have great respect for the President of this House. But I cannot imagine, for example, this entry in Article 134, if you look at it, because you have rules of procedure before you when it says: In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Chair may find that the amendment has been adopted or is not adopted if, on the basis of the debate, the outcome of a possible vote on the amendment is assessed. I do not know if this falls within the sphere of the discretionary right of the President to decide on the basis of the debate itself. In order to make this decision extremely difficult, I fully agree with you, and that there would be many questions whether he has made the right decision or not. It is therefore better to allow this to be left out of this Rules of Procedure in order to avoid unnecessary debates and perhaps even disputes that could be followed if the President used such a decision-making method on a number of occasions. I don't know, I understand that Mr Pahor won't, but I don't know who can - so we're talking about how the Rules of Procedure have to work and hold on for a long time, so that we don't change it again in every parliamentary period and adapt it to our own needs. However, that the President may represent the discretionary Parliament, of course, I fully agree with you, and that is why he has also been elected to this position in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas, colleague Barovic and colleague Kontić. First of all, my friend Barovich. May I just inform you in advance - at 1 p.m., the leaders of the groups of Members would meet in Room 217 at 1 p.m. on a proposal from the Government on a second topic not related to this at 1 p.m. My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to the rules of procedure, i.e. the replica, the clarification of things. The first was already given by the Vice-President, Article 196. The second - yes, it is true that the debate in the working bodies is unlimited. However, if my proposal on the working body, despite the seven-day debate, is not accepted, I request and wish to have the opportunity here in the national assembly to offer this same proposal on the working body once again to all Members and Members here so that it can be accepted. And a third replica. It is true, Mr Podobnik, that the content is not an important quantity. Unfortunately, these two concepts are inversely related. If the content is poor, what we get requires more words to correct it badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My friend Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat to Mr Sok only for his second implementation. I heard it first, but twice it could also be written in a magnetogram as the truth. I went to review the magnetogram of this session, and I did not find, or find, the words that my esteemed colleague, Sok, had made clear to me. But even if I were to say it at the board meeting, it could be a finding that holds. If the opposition Member leaves the meeting of the Commission, which also applies to the meeting of the national assembly, the debate will, of course, be cut short. Shortening does not mean that quality falls at the same time. The experience from the meetings of the National Assembly and the meetings of the Commissions is just as said earlier by Comrade Potrč - the general debate in the consideration of the Rules of Procedure was almost absent, or I can even say that it was not. Then it appeared in the second and now appears in the third reading that there are quite a number of concerns and that it would make sense to amend the rules of procedure. Mr Sok reminds you that you should take some time to think, but the matter has also been repeated in the third reading. Even in the third hearing, all opposition Members did not hold up until the end, except for Dr. Bernik, and left the meeting of the business commission before that. Even then, the debate was cut short, not because of the coalition MPs, but because of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Squirrel, the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	A brief replica of colleague Barovic. In the context of the proposed solutions, it will be possible to do so in the second reading - and now also the proposal for an amendment to the third reading, for which I have taken a very strong commitment that it is proposed - the Group of Members will be able to propose an amendment. So, second and third readings. This is particularly important for the third reading. I understood you had earlier expressed your expectation that, despite a few hours of conviction, you would be unsuccessful in the working body, that you would not have the opportunity to put an amendment on the prey. You have an opportunity through the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, colleagues Kelemin and Sok applied. Please, Mr. Kelemina first.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. On what Mr Kontić has just said, I just have to give a replica. By the way, I know he's been eating his head off with a big spoon a long time. I just didn't have these opportunities, and life didn't allow me to do that, and I lived in different circumstances, and I need or I'm trying to understand things, if they're correctly interpreted, and if I have time to get deeper into them, there's no problem in any area, of course, except in some very scientific, professional areas where I don't have any basis and it doesn't make sense for me to go into these things. But I already have political intuitions, so much so that I know what's right, what's wrong, based on my personal experience and also the values I carry with me. That's for sure. When he says that we have left the session of the Rules of Procedure Commission in the third reading. That's right. I left it myself because, Mr Kontić, with a bulldozer, I can draw arguments there and I will not enforce them because it was impossible because you did not agree to any argument. You've done everything and you've been more arrogant than the president, if I may say so. Of course, everything is clear to you in advance. You understand everything, you don't need any explanation anyway, because, as ordered, of course you do. Your only goal is to get there as soon as possible, of course, within a short period of time, the goal that one of the above has set for you. You were boys, and you will remain servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Sok. I ask all debaters to avoid any personal qualifications that do not help us to deal with this issue in a democratic and cultural manner. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I'll try to follow your advice. But I do have to say that when I protested to leave the Commission, it actually worked, as my fellow Member, Dr Bernik, said today, as a parliamentary roller. I think, Mr Kontič, that Mr Petan warned you that this is not the way to do it. If someone protests not to accompany him, I don't know about rude greetings, etc. So, actually, it was about participating for five, six hours and when we actually realized that no argument of ours had even come to that stage to discuss it, but when we found that the power of the arguments meant nothing, but that there were arguments of power, then you didn't leave the other one as if you were simply leaving or what Dr. Bajuk said, you were playing the fig leaf and giving a picture of democracy and cooperation. Because we just didn't want to be, I left that meeting. You've got the papacy right. You've spent less time. It was also my contribution that the work of the Commission ended as soon as possible. Of course, because of such and similar matters, the debate is then transmitted to Parliament, where Members of several parties are sitting and, of course, they can assess such work from their point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	My friend Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for a little while. I'll follow your instructions, too, as long as I can follow your instructions when you respond to something someone else puts almost in your mouth. Mr. Kelemina! I thank you for your compliment. As far as intelligence is concerned, you have the same option. But what I think about in person is this matter, and I'm still far from eating up all my mind and I'm probably never going to eat it as much as I'd like. There's just one more thing. A bulldozer usually because you're a builder, a bulldozer usually doesn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	I will once again appeal to all colleagues and colleagues who speak to avoid all those comparisons and other qualifications that do not contribute to the quality of this discussion. I'll be rigorous about that. First he gets the floor for the debate, Comrade Drobnic. I'm asking for peace in the hall! He's been followed by a colleague of Peterle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'll start with a thought. Otherwise I'll be brief. I'll try to be brief. When we make changes, whether in marriage or in other ways, those who think wisely always set the following principle. If you are not sure that change will truly bring no improvement, then do not make any changes. This would apply in particular to the Rules of Procedure, and so much more to the Constitution, which is also the subject of our talks, although not now. Such principles were dictated or guided by Members of the New Slovenia and, in particular, by me, so we did not afrontoppose any changes, but those that are really needed, and where we get the appropriate consent. No two-thirds majority of the adoption of such an act is free of charge. Just to reach a greater consensus. This Rules of Procedure is not only an act that defines substantively, but is also an organisational act for Parliament's work, for our work, it is a basic tool. That is why we want to contribute to making this tool good and quality. We are also concerned that the debates are concise, brief, substantive and aim at what they are. Both you and us, if I define as a position and opposition, no one knows what kind of lover sitting here and listening to empty words. But we also need to understand the human attitude. If someone wants to exercise his will in the way of a roller, which has already been used today, there will certainly be action and reaction. Not just to be opposed to empty words, but because through other channels it is impossible for us to express our opinions, our arguments to the law. If the media room closes, and it's trying to close, then of course there's no other way to say it. Parliament is in favour of an exchange of views. At the outset, we should ask ourselves what the objective is, the basic objective of the amendments to this Regulation and how much we agree. Good, clear, transparent laws, good supervision and proper working methods, rational, rational work programming. Many times there have been warnings of problems. But it's not because of the poor rules of procedure. I have mentioned many of my problems with the commission by leading a petition commission. You set up, you find a place, a date for that hour, you get a session, and then they pile up for that hour for two more sessions at the same time. Then there are no appropriate discussions in the working bodies and then we have discussions in this Chamber. I'll tell you another case yesterday. Within 45 minutes, I think we've passed four or five laws or a point of content on the agenda. And these important laws. This suggests, in fact, that the rules of procedure are totally without hindrance, absolutely nothing hinders the work. It is also an underestimation to me that someone or that we will charge for every word, for every word spoken, in this, second, third, fourth committee or whatever, 2 minutes, 3 minutes, 5 minutes, 7 minutes, 24 hours. I'm sorry, that's an understatement for me, too. This is also an underestimation for me, an underestimation of Members that we are not reasonable. Yesterday's case was a pointer for that. Even though there were no government representatives, we might have asked a question, but we let it go. However, we cannot agree to industrial adoption of laws, of course. It would not be for the benefit of our country, not for us. Perhaps one part of the electorate expects us all to raise our hands together, as in some other system. We might even get a good estimate that the parliamentarians have improved. Such an assessment does not tell me anything and I will not put anything on it because it is not a parliamentary democracy. Let's just leave the argument alone. A good law requires an argument. Let me touch some more points. We in New Slovenia are also in favour of changing certain things to better organize work. That's what our amendments show. If we hadn't tabled the amendments, there would have been no desire, no will to make things better. The role, the college. We do not object to giving him a clear role, but not so far as to become a polytburo. Be careful, it is not good for the college to reflect the structure of Parliament. The College is primarily the body that organises and programmes the work. And that's got to happen. It has to be. If we're painting it, it's not a real college. I really don't. Sometimes certain problems, complications, could be solved through a prior arrangement. Perhaps even with an agreement between the opposition and the ruling coalition on the rules of procedure. This can be purely rational and prudent. Minimum change, so a union of elements, as we're all called. We could find this. Where can we meet together? And what you might want to do is you don't want to make a deal with letting go. There's something we can't all achieve. But if someone has set himself the goal of coming to what he has imagined without taking the opinions of others, then he has to count on the reactions. Normal, human and legal. The supervision of Parliament to perform this function entrusted to it, i.e. control. Members of New Slovenia have also made amendments that make a significant contribution to the improvement of this document. Restrictions on the application of laws and amendments. What are we gonna do about it? Restrict investment. Restricted work. Limit the willingness to regulate, the desire to regulate, to help solve problems. Don't underestimate us! Do you think we're going to make laws because we're bored? Because we want to contribute to the regulation of this country. And investing If someone has filed a marriage, maybe someone is thinking about it to "relax" the other investors. [[...]] The ruling, the one with the majority, can still pass through the procedure to the agenda and then eliminate it. Similarly, a minority can criticize the ruling humanity in order to prevent it from investing. Exactly. Bilaterally. But I don't mean to walk on such low things. It's similar to making amendments. With regard to time constraints or deadlines, in many ways I also agree to prevent the adoption of uncoordinated or poor amendments. Therefore, it is also necessary to give certain services to take a look, and of course also to Members, to check, to examine what is going on with these amendments. That's what I'd end up with. This is a warning on my part, some suggestions, some advice. I believe and I am sure that they were given in full good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much for your contribution, Comrade Petty Officer. It's Peterle's colleague. He's been followed by a colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although we are at half the number that applies to the conclusion of this house, I will still say what I believe must be said on this occasion. I regret that there is no interest in our discussions, as it is for some others, but Nova Slovenija wants to do so in the majority structure and so it works all the time today. I've been in this house for the fourth time. Here we were in different compositions, in different coalitions, with different management styles - here I think of the first man of the Slovenian Parliament - we had multiple replicas, we had fewer replicas, we made decisions at the same procedure sometimes with demanding matter very quickly, but sometimes with less difficult very slowly. My basic position is also, and it will not be said for the first time today that it is not a matter for us to decide the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. At the outset, I would like to draw attention to one of my basic beliefs or the conclusion that the Rules of Procedure or some of its solutions - I never want to speak in general, "over" - that the Rules of Procedure are part of a project that I call an attempt to dismantle some of the basics of Slovenian democratic regulation that were adopted in the early years of Slovenian democratisation. The Rules of Procedure are one element of this project, constitutional changes are another element, regulation of public finances of the third element. In all these experiments, all these elements are project or attempt to limit the expression of democratic rights, especially for Members, but also for other purposes. And since this is such an obvious departure from the basic points of parliamentaryism, a serious and clear word is also needed. Parliamentarianism is not based primarily on parliamentary groups, it is based on parties. Above all, the house, such as ours, is based on a Member or a Member. The Group of Members is already an organisational form of parliamentary work. Some of the solutions, either in the rules of procedure or in the amendments tabled, go in the direction that the elected representative or representative of the people here in one way or another takes the word or is impossible will be a more appropriate term. As has already been said by a representative of another party, the original word is already saying that there is talk in Parliament and, of course, there is a decision in Parliament. If some of the solutions that will still be discussed, including decision-making, are adopted, then it is obvious that the Member may no longer be able to speak. The time for discussion will be decided not by any elected flower or group, but by another group set up that does not fully reflect the electoral results of these or some elections. The College can set a time for discussion, even under certain special circumstances, it will be possible to extend for an hour and then the President of the National Assembly will mercifully see to it that such amendments are proposed by the representatives of all the parliamentary groups. Allow a little doubt, a little doubt, a little simulation of what might happen if this discretionary right in a way that our proponents imagine is done by some, say, line that I would call negative. It may happen that someone or someone else, I will say, won't get a word in a row a few times, because he will choose from several candidates from one of the parliamentary groups who will be the presidents of the hotel or who won't want someone, and a few times in a row someone won't get a turn. He will also be able to determine any sequence of speakers. Thus, the President of the National Assembly, instead of a man who, in a dry, protocol way, would say, cares about respect for the rules of the game, will be able, once a strong representative of the opposition has come, to choose a speaker from his side, if I say so, because the President of Parliament is the President of Parliament but is also one of the leading figures of the ruling coalition, and he will choose the one whom he thinks he will best answer and will decide who will have the last word. The order will no longer work as objectively as it is now, but these applications will be mixed in accordance with the current or daily or, say, this coalition interest. That way we'll get another kiss that's never happened before, or rarely has been expressed, so far. I think that the order of things, unless the Members wanted to agree otherwise, was respected. So, here comes not only the great directorship, but then, of course, it can be manipulated. I can speak because this has not been definitively concluded. I must say that I see quite a shame in that such a proposal may even come to pass. I see that the position, as set out in the amendments, is not just concerned about taking care of the quality proposals and respecting the rules of the game within the coalition and also with the opposition, but wants to resolve its interests mainly by limiting, by restricting. I object, I reject this way because I think he lacks a basic parliamentary culture here. If there is no Member, the Member of this National Assembly will be the starting point for matters to be settled, but there will be other starting points, then we will not be doing well. The second obvious shift from one, I think, to a normal and healthy representation of parliamentaryism is that it is passed on in a radical way to a college whose composition, as I said, does not reflect an electoral result. From the advisory body, this body becomes a decisive and, in many ways, a decision-making body. You know what the basic text says and what the proposed amendment of the ruling coalition says. We will get a small CK, which will decide how it will decide, and we will have to fight with specific procedures to make a decision in the plenary or in another round of decision-making. All the demands, I'd say, are minor procedures. I am against such a composed or new CK with democratic textiles, because I do not think it belongs to one good picture of parliamentaryism. It's a question of your mother's working body. I have visited many parliaments around the world in various functions. And I also know that most of the key debates and key decisions take place at the level of the parent working body. Somewhere in front of the public, somewhere without the public. However, there is no such thing as a mother’s body’s conclusion and a spoil with the same ruling coalition. And we have a number of cases where the mother's working body has made up its mind, and the prey has decided differently. Until we advance in our culture to the fact that the decision there will be somehow primary until such things happen until we have a double coalition when the government offers something, and then the spoils will be torn down by another coalition, until then this ideal of the parental working body will come to life, I can imagine. If you look back at any records, you will see that there have been quite a number of meetings at which the ruling coalition did not provide neither the majority of the present nor the uniformity of the position. And the unanimity that appeared in the parent's working body was repeated in the prey, and the thing was without a clear appearance, the final result until the vote was taken. In particular, the last years of Slovenian parliamentary work or Slovenian democracy are full. In the early years, such decisions were very few or so. I think that the issue that goes wrong because of non-compliance with the rules of the game or because of the wrong coalition or general political culture cannot be resolved by replacing the rules of procedure or by the new rules of the game, as the new rules of the game will no longer apply. So, what we're dealing with has to apply. And as Member Drobnic has said before, the opposition, which is very much favoured by the position, is negatively qualified if you go to look, has supported virtually all the so-called European laws. She's backed more laws than she's against. Go watch the results of the votes. It's not the opposition, but it's against when it thinks it must be against. And there is no entertainment and it is one of the two essential parts of the Slovenian Parliament. To defend against the opposition in such a way, to limit the text, to restrict the investment of amendments, I would say, to work with aggregates that were not before - I mean specifically to Members of Parliament - that only such and such a number of Members can propose something when it comes to the budget. This is a disgrace especially for the ruling coalition, which hopes to propose such things. And I tell you that you will not contribute to the quality of parliamentaryism, to the quality of decision-making and also to the general quality of Slovenia by making others and others impossible in this way and by introducing more and more courtesy. What, in particular, has been a weakness or contributed to the poor quality of decision-making so far in Parliament? First, the government's bad ideas. In this sense, I am pleased with the intentions of the applicants or, I would say, all of us together, that the government is really limited to its possibility of making amendments. The government is expected to make a good, mature and acceptable proposal. However, if the coalition finds that it has broken it, let it through its customers through working bodies, not to really get 300 amendments - I think it has already been the case - by the same government. Another reason for decision-making problems was poor coalition coherence [[I've already talked about this in my mother's work.]] And double, as I call it, double coalitions. At times, however, the problem was also the inconsistent conduct of the Rules of Procedure, where replicas were allowed to become a back-up debate instead of explanations on the predecessor or an emergency exit when a few hours did not reach the word in the normal course. I think it would be good to listen to those who have called for greater hearing for consensus. But, unfortunately, this coalition always starts with a punch, starts with strength, when some water flows into its throat, it gets a little nicer, and if it gets even worse, the word consent appears. The same is true of constitutional changes. Not politics at the beginning, profession, without alternatives, wrong approach, and the word consent again did not have the right place at the very beginning. So I hope that this afternoon's meeting will lead to some harmonisation in the sense that we will not vote here for one part of the dismantling of the Slovenian democratic regime, that this Rules of Procedure will open democratic rules of the game in terms of the arrangements that apply throughout the world, but not that it will be written into one coalition. I fully agree, and I do not know how I would have said that with even stronger words, as my colleague Bernik and Drobnic said. This Rules of Procedure, as well as any law, must apply to all. With us, however, it is difficult to see that, too, the three governments of the same Prime Minister come under each mandate with a new government law. [[...]] If we make new rules for each mandate and a new government law, these paper wars will be more than too much. So let's do something like that, which will drink water to the left and to the right, if we say so, and what we will gladly respect as our rules of the game, not as the whip of someone over someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Mag. Vizjak, you probably won't be so short as to finish before 1:00. Then I invite my colleagues and colleagues to make an understanding decision to suspend the meeting now a few minutes before 13. The first next speaker in the afternoon work will be a colleague of mags. Vizjak, behind him is colleague Kelemina. Thank you so much for your morning session. Once again, the working consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups is in room 212. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	We will continue with the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, with a closed point, by adopting the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking my colleagues to come to the debate room. We'll continue the session. Please check with your colleagues' cards, who are not in the hall, so we can have some idea of the quorum. I propose that we proceed with the suspension of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I suggest we find out if there's a presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence in the hall! For the time being, we are not enough, although I believe that more than a majority is needed in the Chamber to continue the meeting. I'm rediscovering the presence in the hall! Please press the quorum key. There are 49 Members and Members present in the Chamber. Can I please have some peace? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Can I have some peace, please? I think that, among all of us today, she was deeply saddened by the conscience we received through the press. In the press, the President of the Swiss Parliament, Peter Hess, announced that in one of the regional parliaments, one of the Swiss cantons today saw a tragedy that claimed 14 deaths, including three members of the regional Parliament. On our common behalf today, I will send a statement of condolences to the President. In this regard, and not only in this regard, I would like to inform you, because we have been working with the leaders of the parliamentary groups for some time now to regulate the security problem in our house, so to speak, we are in the end by harmonising this problem. We thought we'd do it today at 6:00. Due to other obligations, this meeting will be postponed to nine o'clock tomorrow. We have certainly coordinated our proposal sufficiently so that this problem, which has been open for some time, will be fully settled and that the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will also be regulated in this regard as it should be. Finally, I think it is good to inform you that at 1300 hours today, at the working session of the heads of the national assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will agree that we will have an extraordinary meeting of the national assembly at 7.30 p.m. on a proposal from the government. In fact, Minister Pavel Gantar suggested that today's meeting should consider a proposal for a law regulating the guarantee for insurance coverage of Adrie Airways. In the Government's view, it is an urgent matter, and the opinion of all colleagues and colleagues at the college was that we must do so today. At six o'clock, the committee responsible for this issue will meet for finance and monetary policy and a national assembly will meet at 7.30 p.m. I would like to assure you that the services of the National Assembly will provide all of you with the necessary material as soon as possible to get acquainted with it. It's got four articles. At 6 p.m., the committee responsible will meet and at 7.30 p.m. the National Assembly will also meet. We have heeded the Government's warning that this is a very urgent matter. Thank you very much for that attention. So we can proceed with the meeting. It's my colleague Visjak's turn. Comrade Visak? Then I'd like to invite my friend Kelemino.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Dear President, all of you! I think that, at least I want to be one of those Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia who would like to do this mission, want to do it or take it rather seriously, and I would also like to do it in this sense. However, after experience so far from the second term, I can now safely or fairly say that this desire, this interest and also this need somehow have not come true. But it did not come true to me mainly because a certain organisation, both the national assembly and the general policy in Slovenia, and the system of decision-making itself and, if I so call it, some negative democracy that occurs in this country has not been favoured by me and simply my function does not come to terms. As a Member of the National Assembly and a representative of the people, I am deeply aware of the rights that come from the Constitution as a Member, the rights that come from the Rules of Procedure, the Law on Members and other rules, and I am also aware of the obligations arising from this, and I am also deeply aware of the responsibilities and responsibilities. Unfortunately, however, this responsibility does not occur at the final stage. I've talked about this a lot.I mean, if I want to be responsible and have to do something in this country, something positive, simply because of a system like this, I can't. And this is denied to all Members of Parliament, not only Members of the coalition and the opposition, mostly to all Members of Parliament, but, of course, to members of the opposition. I will confess my infirmity by feeling in this Slovenia some approach to some negative democracy, which, of course, is extremely bad for this country. I feel inside me, and I think that Slovenia should, and I think that, too, when deciding on independence when deciding on a democratic system, when deciding on a parliamentary system, and so on, that all citizens had positive democracy in mind at that time. Positive democracy means that the interests or arguments that are best for most people in this country should be overcome. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen. And most of all, at least I feel it many times, there is a negative democracy, of course perhaps in some creative form, in some creative way, as Mr Potsch spoke of, but still in a negative sense. So, in my opinion, if some things are solved in some negative creative way, it certainly isn't, it can't be good. And if it keeps repeating itself, it can't be good for the benefit of most citizens. This is just this general definition to some terms, I think I've already expressed them, but maybe not in this way, slightly different.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Mr. Kelemina, just let me interrupt. The general assessment of the law is possible at first reading. In the third reading, it is possible to define the legal proposal which is now before us until the amendments in full. This exercise of yours has now been intended for a few minutes for your general personal problems. This is not a third-reading bill that we are considering here. Please, Mr Kelemina, stick to the Rules of Procedure and discuss the law that we have before us along with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know how it always bothers you when I talk. Normally, we're just on the line, when I take my word for it, you're in this position, and you have always, always have my comments, never speak up to your expectations. That's very interesting. Let's say, when Mr President was there, maybe someone also said how something of a more general character, more valuable and so on, had not acted. And you, and I'm going to you, apparently, are extremely nervous and you're always interrupting me and you're always having comments on my debate. That was the opening part, about some kind of value system, and now I'm going to lean back when I was just thinking, and just when I want to start talking about something else, you usually interrupt me. I would ask you to be tolerant of me and let me say what I mean. But if it's so bad that it won't last, then just interrupt me and take my word, in accordance with the rules of procedure, even the present one. This rules of procedure, which we now have before us, are also part of this. The new rules of procedure, as I mentioned earlier, will make it even more difficult for me to do the work that I, as a representative of the people, imagined that I could or should have done in this national assembly and in this country. I have the feeling that this new rules of procedure, in addition to some good solutions, I recognize that there are some good solutions, and I am ready to support them at all times, but that this rules of procedure tend mainly to ensure that some authority, which would like to remain in the position of infinity, can, by the line of least resistance, preserve its power, establish it and maintain it indefinitely. I wonder what it is that this authority is now so obstructing in the existing rules of procedure that it wants to lay down new rules, new rules of the game, a new way of working. What are those provisions that disturb this authority? And when I ask myself when I am looking for answers, I find that, in fact, under the old rules of procedure, this authority has the full possibility of voting with its majority in all cases. He can pass the law on a fast-track procedure, after a reduced procedure, translate the agenda items, and any amendment we submit shall be voted on. In short, whatever we do, of course in accordance with the rules of procedure, sometimes they also help themselves with breaches of the rules of procedure and so on, they can vote or vote completely and do just as they do. So there is no need to actually try to change anything in this area. There is no need to amend the Rules of Procedure here. However, as regards various improvements, organisational and so on, procedural, but this could be amended by amending the Rules of Procedure, not by a completely new Rules of Procedure. In these analyses, these findings as to what this authority is actually weighing and tormenting it to the point that it must adopt a new Rules of Procedure and one which, of course, is not acceptable to the opposition, is that, in fact, they want the last instance we had by the opposition Members to be publicly identified in some of their views on certain issues, where we have also tried to critically assess the weaknesses and shortcomings proposed by the authorities. They want to tie our hands here now, shut our mouths so that we can't warn them publicly, by word of mouth, to warn us of all those mistakes, shortcomings and bad solutions that are being repeated and repeated in this country. That's the key reason. They have all the political power to vote on our proposals to prevent us in all ways. Besides, they couldn't stop us from speaking the word. But here we could not and here we had the right to say quite decisively everything we thought it was necessary for the Slovenians to be presented to our citizens with a possible alternative view of individual issues. Now you will still be here, of course, through the legislative procedure, with a way of reporting to the word, now you will destroy it. But I do find that the legislative process as such, if you would like to make some major rationalisation, is actually not done. You didn't do it unless there was some general discussion at first reading if someone didn't ask for it. This is some kind of rationalisation, which we could do now, while in the working bodies where you now want to bring the burden of work, then it all repeats itself at a meeting of the National Assembly. Even though you've given yourself some guards, I don't know what that means. If you can play this, it is not clear to me, you have given yourself some guards so that you can say some things in the second reading, about whole chapters or just the law as a whole and so on. I don't know, I really don't get it, and then I'm going to try to get an explanation of what this means when I discuss an individual article. We do not understand what the first paragraph and the second paragraph, or the indent, and then again explain it with the third paragraph and so on or so on or whatever else we take it in order. In short, there won't be any rationalisation here again. He won't. We will once again vote on all the amendments in the National Assembly. If I understand correctly, if the Group of Members asks for this, or if this is to be done. I don't know how these things work out. There won't be any reorganization here. In the third reading, things will happen again. If this power wanted to do some rationalisation, I have talked about it once before, but perhaps no one has taken this into account and did not want to understand it, it would be necessary to really give the centre of gravity to the working body at second reading, and then there these positions, which are formed, are adopted by amendments and so on, that the National Assembly only approves the fully rigorous amendments adopted by the Committee, but not once again to discuss all these matters. Well, I don't know, now that you think that means that this is being ruled out, then you can, in every case, if I understand this correctly or if you so understand, the representatives of the government, you will be able to vote for each item of the agenda that all amendments and the whole law are voted on by one vote. If this is, any honor, then it will be a real reorganization, even though I am trying to do so, only then other amendments or other paragraphs of this matter are somewhat in doubt, but we will clear it up afterwards. But in third treatment, I'm not saying anything. This one is certainly final, and it is supposed to be what it is. I certainly don't disagree with that. But in general, as far as dealing with a working body meeting is concerned, there is no substantial rationalisation, except for the extent to which you will limit us, that we must not say what we want to say. Then go on, if I just mention some things. Look. With some things, the government comes here to the National Assembly, which has never before submitted to the National Assembly, or with fixed facts, simply puts it before the facts, because there was nothing that could be done on the working bodies now. I will now mention just one such document - let's say this is now the Krška Nuclear Power Plant Treaty, which will then, of course, be a ratification, probably as a law, or how it will, I don't know, be in what form it will come in. For example, the National Assembly, as such, did not discuss these matters at all. It was only on the working bodies, etc. There, however, they did not take any position, overturned all the proposals, or there was no possibility that any matter could be amended or proposed a change. But there are things that are extremely harmful to Slovenia. They are extremely harmful for Slovenia, and now the National Assembly should confirm such things. It's absurd. Such a right the government cannot have and should not allow it, Parliament should not allow the government to present before the facts are ready and force them to vote on certain matters which are harmful to Slovenia. Coalition, of course, because it has a broad horizon and sees 50 years ahead or maybe because of daily interests it will support. But this is against the interests of citizens of Slovenia. There's nothing in this book about these things. It's a lack of rules. You can tell why you didn't amend these things, etc. It doesn't make sense. The last time I was on third reading, I accidentally replaced a colleague, you ran over all things without any arguments, you won't be able to tell yourself anything. Then the next thing that's not assigned, and it's never gonna be assigned, and you're gonna be playing it forever and ever. Now you remember, you see, the kind of order of treatment of individual laws that are put into the legislative process. That's what I was talking about, of course, but that's not gonna happen. But it is not fair and just that now someone will be able to decide that out of the five proposals put into the national assembly, he will gather the one who will answer him most. And since you have a majority, you can always vote the one you want. Member, forget the honourable fellow Members, Members, you will not be able to deal with your proposals for law, which you will submit to the National Assembly if you have no ties, if you do not know what else, in this National Assembly. You won't be able to do it anymore. Because they're going to reject everything because there's going to be proposals that the government is going to propose, or someone who's going to like it. We used to have, I admit, a blockage. Many such proposals were made when these things were blocked and also blocked by the government, of course the opposition blocked the government, the government blocked the opposition so that we could not make these proposals. That's the fact that this system was being abused. But if we went, as I say, for some positive democracy, if we went to some positive creative way of working, if we took it, Mr. Potrč was talking about a creative way of working, and I was talking about a positive creative way of working, then we would agree in this rules of procedure that if there were more, we would somehow combine those proposals into some common proposal, which would then try to resolve someone in general. However, this will not be possible if a person submits the law after a reduced procedure, but it is impossible to include other things in this law, in that proposal that will be considered. If there's a quick procedure, of course, you might be able to make a suggestion, but you won't be able to. Let me know if you can. You can't. This is again about blackmail or negative democracy, about a negative creative way of working. That's my guess. Then the next thing, the question of a messenger. I'm just going to give you one example right now. Yesterday I read in the Inspection Services Act, it says there in the report of the working body, that, by the way, but this is very important because it is related to parliamentary issues, it says that the National Assembly and Members will supervise the work of the inspection services through the questions sent. Please! Of course, it's theoretical. This is theoretically possible, but I ask you nicely, you know how questions are answered, how the order actually works. When you ask the first question, then if you don't get the answer in writing, what, the second, you suggest in the working body, then we can go to the National Assembly and have all these things arranged. I tried to get this process through, and I failed it. I didn't make it. I can't even talk about it on my working body, nobody wants to talk about it, even though I've put in a role for it, and I haven't even gotten to the National Assembly. How should I exercise my parliamentary role, my rules of procedure, my rights, if things do not work as they should, regardless of the rules adopted. You always find some excuse, yes, but that's not consistent with that. It is said, always a negative interpretation of the rules of procedure, a negative creative way of working. In such a way, you will certainly not contribute to making this country more efficient, more democratic and more legal than it should be. Next thing you know, I'm gonna ask some questions, but I don't know who can answer that. The proposalr should say something here, but he's more of a fog, I don't know, nothing's coming. Given that we have recently identified on the working body or there on the Committee on Finance, how we will adopt a two-year budget if there is no speech in the Rules of Procedure. I don't know when we're going to adopt the rules of procedure, when we're going to adopt this budget. I don't think these things are harmonised. [[...]] He also warned the secretariat, but there is no solution to this right now, and I did not see any amendments to this; if so, I apologize. Well, someone's going to explain it, certainly, then, next time, at least that's how I expect it to be. The next thing that bothers me is a restriction on the debates, which I have mentioned a little. Let's say the replica institute in Article 69, if I'm not mistaken. Now, who knows this -- or maybe I can read it too accurately, I don't know, I might be too precise and complicated -- but if someone in their debate happens to be -- I'll just say one case, typical that you can think about it if you want -- so if someone in the debate just like that, I don't know, maybe mention someone who's on the board, or maybe I don't know where else, in public or anywhere, they're saying something, and so, you know, I don't have the right to replicate it then. Because it says here that only those who have somehow discussed each other can replicate. However, if someone in the debate mentions me, and may misquote me, I have no right to replicate it because I was not already a debater. How am I supposed to replicate it now if I don't have the right under this rule of law?Oh, my God! At least that's how I understand him. Explain to me how you're going to do this. It is unfair, unfair, that someone does not have the right, if someone unjustifiably mentions it, or gives some unjustifiable reasons or possibly incorrect data and so on, which is, of course, the basic institute of the Member's replica, you will simply not have the right to come forward and correct those mistakes that someone has made on your account. Well, it's just a few such short cuts from this new rules of procedure. I expect that this Rules of Procedure will not be adopted, not because I do not want the positive changes that may be necessary in a particular matter, especially as regards, say, planning and deadlines, timely amendments and these things - these things are positive, indeed. However, given the general expectations that this rules of procedure will bring, I think that, as far as contributing to democracy is concerned, to positive democracy, to a positive way of working, this new rules of procedure will certainly not contribute. That is why, of course, I probably won't be able to support him at the final stage. However, I expect that it will be possible, on the basis of what I am saying now, if this Rules of Procedure are adopted, perhaps also by the authorities, representatives of the authorities that you are here in the majority, that you may begin to think about it so that it would be really wise to take positive democracy and a positive creative way of working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Your Honor! Surely we all want a policy that will ensure the up-to-date and quality treatment of materials. The difference is that some also want the Rules of Procedure to ensure the democratic nature of the procedures. But I regret to note that through all readings, there is a fatal reduction in individual Members' rights throughout all versions. Emphasis is placed on an individual Member. According to the latest version, the Member is granted the possibility of influencing the decisions of the national assembly only if it is subordinated to a group or other group. As an individual, there is no right to invest and defend their amendments in any reading. First, the rules of procedure shall be abolished. It can only be requested by a group of ten Members. The individual Member is nowhere to be found. The second treatment shall take place in the home working body and then in the national assembly. The mother's working body can combine articles, it can close individual chapters, or it will briefly reject the proposal, all without the cooperation of Members who are not members of the committee. The mother's working body will be able to discuss, assess, also decide on the amendment of a Member who is null and void of the parent's working body and cannot be present on the committee. A Member who is not a member of the Committee may indeed attend and discuss. Article 159, paragraph 7, even provides for the cooperation of the proposed amendment. However, only members of the Committee will receive a reference to this Rules of Procedure. Call and material for the session. Many committees, as you know, will be sitting and sitting at the same time. In doing so, amendments will also have to be accompanied by all analytical explanations, including the implications for the state budget. This can only be done by a government or a government party with the professional services of individual ministries. Well, from everything follows, clear, bitter and prevent the opposition from making amendments. The mother's working body was then to submit a complementary proposal to the National Assembly. While cooperation is possible for an individual Member here, he cannot table amendments. The participation of an individual Member shall also be in the hands of God or in the hands of the President of the National Assembly, who, following Article 70, may briefly stop when the debate has passed within certain hours. I am in favour of shortening the fruitless and waterless debates, but I cannot agree that the presidents can prevent me from even discussing, even if only for five minutes. In the second paragraph of Article 134, it will not be necessary to vote by counting votes, but the chairman will be able to assess what the outcome of the vote would be. In the third reading, only one fifth of Members will be able to propose amendments. However, in the short and urgent procedure, it will be impossible for an individual Member to submit amendments and participate in the debate. The procedure will be decided by the college without the participation of Members or by the leaders of the groups of Members without regard to whether individual Members agree or disagree with the position of their leader and whether or not they are members of the individual group. Once again, I wonder whether a Member who is not a member of any parliamentary group may be deprived of the right to participate and to influence the decisions of the national assembly. I warned you about this problem at the first reading, but I haven't received an answer yet. Your Honor, these are serious questions. If we do not have a hearing for them, there will be a hearing for the institution to do so - the Constitutional Court. The Rules of Procedure should be designed primarily to ensure that a small group, as well as an individual Member, are able to cooperate, to object and to make amendments at any stage, but should be made possible once. Under Article 82 of the Constitution, the Member shall be a representative of all the people and shall not be bound by any instructions, nor shall he be guided by the President of his Group. The unification of the Group and the agreement of the Member to be represented by another Member or Chairman of the Group of Members when voting in a college or in the home working body may only be a matter of internal agreement within the Group of Members. However, it cannot be ordered as a condition for the exercise of a parliamentary function. If, under Article 88 of the Constitution, an individual Member can even propose laws, we must allow it with its Rules of Procedure to propose amendments and defend them in front of other Members. If that were not the case, we could adopt a Rules of Procedure with a single article to stipulate that only that Member, and only as long as the ruling majority allows him, should be allowed to make amendments in the national assembly. Such rules of procedure would ensure an even faster way of adopting laws. So why don't you take it? If you do not feel the need for the Rules of Procedure to provide an individual Member with the opportunity to carry out a parliamentary function, the functions given to him by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, to talk about the most important act in the third reading, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is, I will say, one of the more responsible acts or perhaps one of the most responsible ones we have carried out in this mandate, at least so far. Therefore, I think it is so important that in this reading, the third reading of the Rules of Procedure would also take into account Article 82 of the Slovenian Constitution, which states that Members are representatives of all people and are not bound by any instructions. Above all, in the part where it says that we are or are Members of all the people, this means that it is necessary to take account when amending the Rules of Procedure and when adopting the Rules of Procedure of Members who are representatives of all the people. This also means members of the opposition. However, a better way of democracy, such as parliamentary democracy, has not yet been established by the world. And it is also true that in parliamentary democracy, the majority is that one half is plus one vote. However, the question arises whether such a majority is always the best. It can happen many times in practice that today's decision with a majority, half + one vote, today is one of the saving ones, and at the next moment such a decision can become even worthless. Of course, this is my thinking related to that part of adopting and amending the rules of procedure which discusses the competences of the college and which speaks of the college working behind closed doors. It is therefore necessary to think so much more about this today and not to make any act that will have no weight on the day after tomorrow. It is important that we approach the Rules of Procedure as if we wanted to do it for the situation, regardless of which side you are on. Either in the coalition or in the opposition. Then that would be a good rule of procedure. If the rules of procedure were to go professional, not political. If the rules of procedure were to be taken in such a way that the profession was of primary importance, not the current situation, how it suited someone at that time. In fact, a lot of nice words have been said by some and the intention of the coalition Members, but of course those words have either been broken or they have already been broken in the amendments tabled, particularly in this part of the Rules of Procedure, which discusses the powers of the College of the National Assembly and, of course, those which speak of the closure of the meetings of the National Assembly. Finally, decisions will be made by one or two or three, and the public will be interpreted as such, so decided by the National Assembly. There are many interpretations, too, and that is the decision of the National Assembly. Yes, many times the National Assembly decides so, but it's up to the coalition. That doesn't even highlight what's important. However, in order for Slovenians and Slovenians to know this, it is essential that things are open. Even more, I would personally like to commit myself to monitoring the work of the National Assembly and, if the revision of the Rules of Procedure is also in this direction, in which I personally agree that more substantive discussions will be held on working bodies, including monitoring the work of working bodies and the National Assembly, through national television. Of course, whoever wants music won't be watching this program. Whoever wants it will have a chance. The adoption of certain decisions in the National Assembly, taken by the Coalition without opposition, however respected colleagues and colleagues look, are harmful, if you want, tragic and ultimately, if you want, especially insulting. Deplorable for that part of the Slovenian nation which has elected Members who are currently in opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Mr. Puksich, I'm sorry. Just like Mr Kelemino, I must remind you that you are going to completely different areas in your discussions. If you allow an assessment, Mr Cukjat had a sample example of how to define the law in the third reading. Thank you very much. I respectfully ask you to stick to the law at the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Madam President! That is exactly what I am most afraid of, what will happen after the adoption of this Rules of Procedure. They used to have, they had, because, thank God, there was no political commissioners in the world. At the time of Oz's work and so on. Following the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, it may, in fact, be a matter of repetition with so-called political commissioners. In fact, the adoption of such rules on the one hand, a colleague and a colleague, is the conclusion that when the elections are completed, there is no need for Members of the National Assembly to need members of the National Assembly in fact. If all decisions, as set out in article 23 of the amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, are to be decided by the College of the National Assembly on the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, unless the Prime Minister binds the matter of the Commissioner to admission. And if it is so that the college will decide, as stated in the 100th article, that the colleges will be closed to the public, Madam Vice-President, I have talked about it. That's what content is talking about. When you think about what it will do to read articles and tie them up in my mind, you can if you want. I don't have any problems with that. However, I wanted to make a substantive statement, even in some specific cases, where such decisions by this country, the cannon are nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, have brought no good conclusions or good results with certain decisions that have taken place in this very national assembly. Also something in the previous mandate and, of course, some already in this mandate. When the Slovenian nation asked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Mr Pukšič, the content of the decisions taken or the procedure by which decisions are taken, I wanted to draw your attention. We are talking about the decision-making process in this National Assembly, and you are discussing the quality of the decisions, which is the difference. I'm really asking you to stick to the frames. Thank you very much. Please let Mr Puksic finish and then a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. On page 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with interpretations in Article 196, it is also considered that in the third reading, the Council of State discusses the legal proposal as a whole. This is what I am talking about and why I am justifying as a debate on the marriage proposal in its entirety how bad is this bill or the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure as a whole. That's all I'm talking about, Madam President. Right to those arguments, I hope I do. I'd ask you if you wouldn't bother me with my work anymore, because I admit you're deconcentrating me. Dear fellows! I have talked about the importance and necessity of changing the rules of procedure, and I think that someone has already offered before me the possibility of members of the ruling coalition that changes in the third reading, changes in the rules of procedure, that the point should be suspended, that they should sit together again and agree on what would be acceptable to members of the national assembly, both now coalition and opposition Members, what would be in the interest of all members of the national assembly, what would be in the interest of citizens and citizens, so that they could really make quality decisions in the national assembly, so that they could be taken in accordance with the modern rules of procedure, not in accordance with the rules of procedure, where individual individuality is completely excluded and leads to the decision of one of the members of the parliamentary group. That's not acceptable. This is also not in accordance with the Constitution, not in accordance with Article 82. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure thus adopted would be inconsistent with Article 82 of the Slovenian Constitution. Such decisions, which were then amended, were thus amended by such decisions, in which not all the parliamentary groups or most of the parliamentary groups participated, or by such decisions, which did not involve the parliamentary group which received the second largest vote in the national elections, were, of course, rejected many times by the Slovenian people, including by those who elected those Members who were in this ruling coalition. Let us recall the previous term when the decision concerning TET 3 was so imposed and Slovenian citizens and citizens rejected such a decision. If we remember the adopted law on artificial fertilization [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	Mr. Puksich, I'm sorry! Secondly, I remind you whether you are discussing the quality of the decisions or the way in which the rules of procedure will be decided. For the second time, I warn you, for the third time, I will take your word under the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	President, you will certainly have this opportunity, and I will, of course, have the other options that remain for me. Once again, I am discussing it in accordance with Rule 196 of the Rules of Procedure. For the time being, and please, if you respect him and allow me to have my debate and arguments about why this is bad, I will lead to the end. It is unacceptable if we have in mind Article 100, which says that meetings of the College of the National Assembly will be closed so that the proposal for a preliminary examination of the law is decided by the College of the National Assembly. During the closed session, members of liberal democracy and the combined list of 45 votes, i.e. two will decide whether the first debate, the first reading or the first debate on the law will take place in the National Assembly. This is not democratic, this is not in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and is not in accordance with Article 82. It is unacceptable that, at this time, two Members will also decide on the duration of the meeting of the National Assembly and on the timing of each agenda item and on the duration of the discussions of Members and other participants of the meeting or groups. Not only are the opposition disregarded, but other coalition partners are also disregarded. However, this is a problem of coalition partners, but Members are not taken into account and individuals are not taken into account. Many times it has happened that Members have made a different decision than the will of certain leaders or parliamentary groups or parties. And it's never turned out to be wrong. In this case, the two of you will decide on this. Where? In a closed session. The public, in room 117, will be presented, as decided by the College of the National Assembly. Such decisions are unacceptable. These are the political commissioners of today. And this is not acceptable for this country, for these citizens and, of course, for the elected representatives of these citizens and citizens. The decision on the number of jobs in the working bodies belonging to the individual parliamentary group and the number of seats belonging to the group of Members of the Chair or the Vice-President of the individual working body should be decided at the College of the National Assembly, in closed session. That's not acceptable. The number of jobs is as much as the individual political party won in the elections. Working-body management, percentage of what she won in the election. Otherwise, Members of the ruling coalition do not normally take this into account and get the opposition a little less, but this is happening before the public, before the Slovenian public, which, of course, elected Members and Members, and it is known who is behind the decision. Colleagues and colleagues, on the other hand, from the amendment review, I find it impossible and unacceptable to adopt a second paragraph when it says: "If the College does not reach agreement on the matters referred to in the previous paragraph, any parliamentary group may request that the College decide on this. The decision of the College shall be taken if a proposal is supported by the leaders of the parliamentary groups together with a larger number of members than those who oppose it." These are the substantive reasons why such a decision cannot be taken in this Rules of Procedure. These are the substantive reasons why I myself would take the initiative to re-open the Rules of Procedure Commission, but to have a substantive discussion on these certain interpreted inadmissibilitys to work in the National Assembly and to harmonise and thus draw up a Rules of Procedure that would be acceptable to the Members of the National Assembly for their easier and better work. The College of the President of the National Assembly may determine the duration of each item of the agenda, the time for debates by Members, sent groups and other participants of the meeting. These are, and in light of the fact that the college will be closed to the public, unacceptable matters. By adopting such a rule of procedure, we will not achieve the objective we have set ourselves, which was originally set. Restricting the debates to be limited by the College of Members and Members will not contribute to the quality, co-existence, the adoption of good legislation for citizens and citizens, but will, of course, at present bring about the fact that you want to continue the poor conduct of the National Assembly, all that I am alone over these two mandates and, of course, to lead a national assembly under the government's tactics or one extended arm by the Government, but that is where decisions are made, just as someone dictates. All these arguments are not enough to reconsider what is good and what is not good. Of course, my support will not have such a rule of procedure. Look, it's purely substantive. Article 2 of the text of the Rules of Procedure states: "The questions of the work of the National Assembly which are not governed by this Rules of Procedure may be settled by a decree or by another act of the National Assembly in accordance with this Rules of Procedure." The amendments to Article 285, which states: "The Act on Internal Organisation and Systematisation of Jobs in the National Assembly shall be adopted within two months of the entry into force of this Rules of Procedure," shall read the amendment stating that the Rules on the Implementation of the International Activities of the National Assembly shall be adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly or by the President of the National Assembly. I don't know who's out there. What rule book? Article 2 of this Rules of Procedure does not contain any rules, but states that they can be regulated by a decree or by another act. It shall not speak in the entire Rules of Procedure of any Rules of Procedure. What exactly is a rulebook? If the rules of procedure do not provide for it, then I also think that it cannot be an amendment to the adoption of internal organisation and the systematisation of jobs makes sense to do so as stated in Article 2. It's with a decree. However, the decree is not adopted by colleges and not by the President of the National Assembly, but by a decree on the implementation of the international activities of the National Assembly, since it is not only the individual body that carries it out. [[...]] You don't mind, do you? I know you don't. You won't allow conditions for work either. Okay, that's not necessary either. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your warning. Thank you. The implementation of the international activities of the National Assembly shall not be linked to one individual committee or working body. The implementation of international activities is linked to more or probably all working bodies. But I'll wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	Mr. Puksich, please continue. There is much more to talking in this parliamentary room than at this time, and I think you have very good conditions for your debate. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	Sure, thank you very much. The opposition Members, when you chat and disturb the position, is wrong, but if, of course, they do so on the side of the position, it is not wrong and we are already the opposition, one way or another, we can be satisfied that we are even in the hall. This will not be necessary under the new rules of procedure either, as the UN political commissioners will do their part. It is therefore unacceptable that the rules on international activities should be adopted, but I believe that it is essential that a decree on international activities be adopted. This is what neither colleges nor president can accept, but the National Assembly, and even fewer presidents or colleges in a closed session. [[Quiet.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Mr Pukšič, please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. [[Quiet.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 196 of the Rules of Procedure, I will talk about the reason which led to the drafting of the new Rules of Procedure. The reason was the rationalisation of work. However, I note that the objective of this reason with the new Rules of Procedure has not been achieved. The economic interpretation of job rationalisation requires three objectives: maximum productivity, economy and profitability. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in view of the fact that our tools are the words I try to use, I believe that we are all trying to create a fair product; this product is the content of laws. We achieve one goal with this rule of procedure - maximum productivity. By withdrawing or rebuffing the speech, that is, using our tools, we will certainly adopt or process 60 laws at one session instead of 30. We come to another goal: economics. No, we're becoming uneconomical because these first ones are going to be so bad that we're going to have to fix them, rebuild them, find novels and so on. But all of this leads to non-profit, for all the money that will and which is invested in this national assembly, not only in our wages, but in the whole house and in all the professional people, will of course be wrong. There's no profitability if we fix and fuck around the same laws. Parliament's work should result in the timely adoption of all necessary quality laws. This is where we agree. I'm going back to the debate a little bit earlier, maybe you didn't understand me, so I'm going to repeat it with one sentence - quality means more use of our tools, words, because the basic product is usually - I think you can confirm - bad. A lot of government laws come in poorly prepared because they're always in a hurry. That is why our tool is so much more necessary and so much more in use that that product, the law, we only definitively design to be worthy and suitable. Mr Potts said a little earlier that we have to work harder through agreements. I agree. By means of agreements, but not by giving certain powers or certain rights to the college under the new rules of procedure. The College is a consultative body, of course, important in the organisation and coordination of work, but no decision which affects the competence of Members can be taken by the College, but cannot be favoured by Members and Members. We have heard that the role of working bodies is very important. Yeah, the evidence is work rationalization. I must say this, I admire Mr Lavrinc's distinguished fellow Member, this is the Internal Policy Committee, where work has been rationalised and everything that has been done in the previous period has suddenly fallen into this committee, I think that in two or three committees. All of us who are members of this committee know what the results of our work on this committee are. That we meet twice or three times just to agree on when we'll meet next time because we don't hunt each other anymore. As for the third reading, the third reading, and, again, I'll say, a certain limitation of words. I agree that the essence of everything, i.e. other production, is the most important phase of the working body, but we do not all participate in all the working bodies. We all have enough to work with our fellow Members working in other working bodies, we have no opportunity and no time to talk or negotiate and my opinions, my, for example, on an external policy where I am not a member, sometimes I have, but sometimes I have no opportunity to tell my fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič, who is a member there, so I still had the right to speak and make amendments after the present Rules of Procedure, in the third stage, because I may or may not have ever been able to coordinate with Mr Jelinčič or there was no other option. Now, I'm talking about the proposal, I'm not talking about the amendments, we don't. One fifth, paragraph 138, may be tabled by the Member in the third stage. That's 18. I don't know, maybe these are even two parliamentary groups in this House. Of course, if the parliamentary group is 18, this article goes on. Although I know that in the second reading, we were all together or we were talking a lot about it, and I understood that we had found agreement at the time when we spoke for the second time about the rules of procedure, that we would change this article now, in the proposal for admission in the third reading. I guess that didn't happen. Once again, I stress that our tools are words and that we are all members of the national assembly, Parliament, which is the highest authority. The highest authority. I think that with the highest authority and with the decisions of a million 900 and a few other Slovenians, it is certainly not possible to play in this respect. So I am sure that I will conclude that the objective of rationalising work in the economic category, which was the reason for the drafting of the Rules of Procedure, even as set out in the articles currently in preparation for the third reading, has not been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, on page 14, if you look at the amendment, there is a solution to your question. Mr. Mamić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask that you repeatedly control the presence during the debate, and above all now I would ask you to control the quorum.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	During the debate, there is no need for the assembly to be concluded. This is also the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure before the decision is taken. However, when making a decision, we always find the necessary majority. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I welcome everyone who's still here. I'm already shaking a little because I'm afraid I won't tell you everything that he won't allow me time. Fortunately, today is still possible, so if we accept all these amendments, then it will be our last chance. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. I'm relying on an understanding of the National Assembly. In fact, all the proposals, the amendments proposed or supported by the government, appear to have to be adopted. That's the practice, so I mentioned it, because that's actually how it happens in every case. Members must be aware of the importance of parliamentary democracy and the role of Members in ensuring a balance between individual branches of government. The changes to the Rules of Procedure that have taken place will undermine this balance between the various branches of government, which will further affect the democratic processes in Slovenian society. What I said before. As always, the essence of the problems is not in the laws, but in the entities, that is to say in us who are implementing the laws. The same situation is in the legislative process. Most of the complications in submitting and making mistakes in the National Assembly are due to poorly prepared materials and bills by the government. In addition, all decisions in the legislative process depend on the votes of Members of the ruling coalition. The opposition Members can only and only point to irregularities. Otherwise, the ruling coalition is going over the opposition as a cylindrical player, which is already mentioned today as the deadline. With the new rules of procedure, you will further legitimize this power. Of course, if the amendments supported by the government are accepted. I speak from my 11-month experience. The debates were at an extremely high level all the time. Members of the opposition have always supported smart and useful solutions. We also strongly opposed criminal laws and amendments. Several times it happened that the results of the vote were, if proposed by the ruling coalition, 47-0, 53-0, 42-0 - facts; if proposed by the opposition, they were 18-43, 20-37, etc. This is our legitimate right. With the new rules of procedure, we have the right to oppose criminal solutions, to restrict or even to withdraw them. Sorry, those are the facts. That's not good. This is not good for the entire Slovenian society and not for the ruling coalition, after all. We are opposition Members as a defence mechanism that responds to the disease decisions and policies of the ruling coalition. If you significantly weaken this immune system in Parliament, you can expect that sooner or later you yourself will suffer from some very serious disease. As always, however, the costs of treatment will have to be borne by Slovenian taxpayers and not by those who restrict their right to critical opinion in Parliament. What kind of doctor can give me a review or a replica? At the same time, according to my information, it is also a simulation of the legislative procedure that has already been carried out by the members of the great ruling coalition that the proposed Rules of Procedure have huge traps and errors. If we listened carefully to the discussions of the speakers so far, we could make sure that I would not repeat things now because we have heard them, perhaps even more times. Some have already openly said that the proposed Rules of Procedure will need to be amended and amended recently. That's absurd. It's, for God's sakes, not to afford it. Looks like we are. We are aware before the adoption of the Rules of Procedure that we will have to amend it because it is bad. At the same time, it is repeated in the government coalition that this rule of procedure will rationalise Parliament's work and that, on the basis of this, better laws will come from the National Assembly. That would have been his intention otherwise. How will the National Assembly produce better laws if it is relied on by the national assembly and government because it is so defective? At the same time, let me re-emphasize. The opposition is not responsible for bad laws and for complications in the legislative process. Almost all the complications, mistakes are due to poorly prepared marriage proposals and materials and disagreements between members of the ruling coalition. These are the facts. The position in the current Assembly is so small that it cannot prevent these things. The opposition Members can only be warned of irregularities. That is why it is wiser for you to first sweep before your threshold, gentlemen of the government coalition - this is by the ministries and the government and by your parliamentary groups, and then get on with the opposition. Consider whether it is wise to take this right away from us. I would like to stress one more thing, what is the power of this opposition, which has proved to be today. When Mr Kelemina spoke, Madam Vice-President, you prevented him from doing so. At the same time, the LDS party had a parliamentary group there in the circle, and you didn't see it at all, or you didn't want to see it. You've also irritated Mr. Pukšič so much that he stopped talking. I don't know if he had much left to say or not, but these are the facts that we're all witnesses to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you. The last to be notified of an unlimited debate is Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we were confronted in the previous mandate with a substantively identical proposal for a Rules of Procedure, with the same background and with the same objectives, it was presented that the intention of the proposal was to reach more order and democracy. When the opposition warned that it had introduced a war situation with the exact same sentence and abolished a piece of democracy in Poland, General Jaruzelsky did not present this proposal of the Rules of Procedure under the same syntagmo. Nevertheless, the same content is hidden behind the changed facade. I must say that I am disappointed that in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure, which I do not claim to be good enough, effective enough and to allow effective work in all areas, there has not been a knowledge in the ruling types of position that should be approached in a consensual manner. It is said that they would accept those screaming things that are sticking out, which are not so fatally connected to the degree of democracy in our country. It is said that procedural matters would change and make it possible to work more successfully in some areas. However, I say that the rules of procedure are not so bad, however, that we should come with this and with this intention that comes with the current revision of the Rules of Procedure. It must be said that the great political power held by the position at this time has been cast into letters and articles of the Rules of Procedure in those areas which bind the opposition's mouth and bind the opposition's mouth. And that, unfortunately, is the basic intention. But here we go, fellows and colleagues, to evaluate all of us. From the discussions of these days, I have also seen that many Members of the Council are also aware that they are in the background of both political lobbying and political power wishing to take decisions on behalf of Members. It is valuable that someone is elected in democratic elections, it seems, not strong enough and binding enough. For these lobbies, who, if we look at it like that, in the economy and elsewhere have achieved everything they have set themselves. Now, in the field of politics, democracy must achieve everything they have set themselves. To preserve the facade of democracy, but to take the power of decision-making. I wonder how serious the approach is for the majority of Members, because I would expect the solutions proposed here and which are controversial, positions members or members of the largest party to defend with new arguments. However, I did not hear one word and one argument in favour of the solutions proposed. Obviously these arguments. And look at these most controversial solutions. What I have already mentioned is an excessive, far-reaching limitation of the words of Members. Leading samples from countries for decades, for centuries long parliamentary democracy has been politely said 'no fair'. There, too, democracy developed, and today's solutions were not present when parliamentary democracy was still fragile. Here some are aware that fragile democracy is an opportunity to achieve their political objectives. And I said, it's about humiliating the Members. This year we witnessed the humiliation of the work of the Slovenians: that they are not smart enough to lack the proper staff, that they are not able to do business, that they were not almost said to be unable to do their job, that they could run certain functions in the economy. That was spoken from the government level. And the same humiliation is now being done for Members of Parliament. It's two faces of the same behavior. And quietly landing, fellow Members, to such humiliation, there is no service to strengthen democracy. This is the destruction of democracy on Slovenian soil. Another item that's completely unbelievable to me. These are jurisdictional and closed, and I'm not gonna say, a secret meeting of the College of State. When, in the previous, the second reading fell to the amendment, which had rushed to enforce and evaluate the momentum, a closed meeting was held under Article 23, I think that the 23rd, and with all the powers conferred by Article 23, and this fell, this position was through, I think that the 100th article, which speaks of the public talk, reintroduced and took advantage of the indiscretion of Members here in the Chamber because I firmly believe that this article or this item would not have been voted on at that time. I myself was among those who did not realize that through the side door, in a smoldering way, this article, this amendment, was reintroduced. At that time, it was in the mood to prevent such behaviour in Parliament. Today, perhaps curved spines or broken, crooked hands. I don't know, maybe. However, you must admit that if in one session this article falls, that it is not moral, that it is not political wise to bring it back to the back door. And see, what the amendment to the 23rd article of the ruling coalition and, of course, the closed-down work of the college of the conspirative session, is the return of the practice of the central committees. I'm not surprised that nostalgia and hiccups on central committees are also present. On the outside, it seemed ideal, and some people today believe that we are arguing here, that it was better back then. Maybe someone else does. But the practice of the Central Committees and its leadership led to the departure of the then country "from the ground". And that is exactly what will happen to us with parliamentaryism if we accept that the main decision-making body in this House will be the central committee here. See, when I look at the amendment proposal for Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, I wonder if this proposal has come to The Hague. There's a man there who can either sign it or write it. The meeting of the College shall be concluded if it is attended by the Heads of the Group of Members, whose members represent more than half of all Members of the National Assembly. Two parties will make fortunes, paydays, and outspokenly declare that everything is in the best order to ensure that the citizens are cared for. Stupid citizens are so incapable of understanding what the Stajers are not for something else. This article, or this amendment, has seen everything, the entire Rules of Procedure. If you insist on this and restricting the role of a Member, the reputation of a Member, then there is no speech, then this cannot be supported. Do not compare the city and the role of a Member in Western European parliaments with a long tradition where a Member is a respected institution. However, we also have this proposal at the position of the Member's intention to evaluate as much as possible. The fact that Parliament does not have a reputation is a clever political game that is being launched by protagonists of this kind. Everything they say here is considered bad. Together, we should strive to restore to Parliament the place and the reputation that goes with it. We are not all members of the political agenda, we are chosen every four years, and this is the most honest and correct way. Because of this election every four years we have the right to perform, the word parliament comes from the 'parlare' to speak. Do not close our mouths across all borders and not say that this is Parliament's main weakness, that some Members are involved at several points. I try to be serious about my work, to deepen into Parliament's work, to cooperate, to warn, and therefore I do not have French textbooks on the table and to think about my job in Brussels, and I do not have market quotations, unless we discuss it. But, of course, you think that this is bad if I participate in Parliament's work. It has to be disabled. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Believe me, when I think about it, I think about you. You too will be the opposition. After all, Slovenia is not somewhere on the moon a country where the general rules would not apply. True, it seems to you that it is possible to maintain power indefinitely and forever. However, in parliamentary democracy, power is changing. You too will be the opposition, perhaps soon. Maybe soon, given what's going on in banks. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Mr. Jerovšek, please! I'm warning you, you're going slowly. Please stick to the proposal for the Rules of Procedure that are before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	I'm sticking to the rules of procedure. He went to the banks, too, to the banks! I will say and have the right to argue my views. Look at these banks. What rewards, what billions that are not now available for farmers, for drought! Look at you in Kota! A billion-and-a-half dollars went now within a few months of normal income! But the minister said there was no money for the drought.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Mr Jerovšek, I apologize again. Next time, I'm warning you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	You don't have to apologize. Let me speak through the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	The Rules of Procedure, which are in third reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	The old man's still on! There are a lot of things that will actually cause you to be the opposition. Raised value added tax on success stories! People, Slovenians, they're not stupid. And, dear colleagues, when you are the opposition, if you have this rule of procedure, it will be too late. It'll be too late. Stay on your own today. Stay worthy of the 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution, that you must be independent to be ordered by the Slovenian Constitution. And, look, I don't agree with some of the solutions that are contained here. Earlier it was said, and of course the paper also says that we no longer have a quick procedure. There is no such term in the Rules of Procedure. But I'm saying we're going to have a super-fast procedure, express, maybe. In fact, see the aptly subdued case, which is referred to in Article 137: "If no amendment has been adopted in the second reading of the amended bill, the State Assembly at the same meeting shall proceed to the vote on the law." There is no first hearing, there is no amendment, you will agree, we will not support any amendment - there is no amendment, the law is adopted. Why is there even a third treatment when it's already adopted?Oh, my God! And this is a super-fast, express procedure that will be misused. I'm sure he'll be abused. Then the urgency of Article 121: "On the initiative of several Members, a general discussion may be held at second reading. After the general discussion, the national assembly shall decide whether the proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration." This is an article and a line for opposition proposals, which are so terribly difficult to bring here to the National Assembly, because they will be blocked by various blockades and protectors from this Rules of Procedure earlier. However, if any of us fight, then ten Members here will sign a general debate on a quick, surprising, agenda change, it's an old practice, you know, you're gloating. That's what you're good at. And at a speed without the rapporteurs, probably, all because you're just going to see that this happens when the no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. At the same time, it is said that there will be more weight on the board. That's the kind of marriage that won't even come to the board. Substantial decrease in the opposition. Substantial reduction. The fact is that today, in Slovenia, Parliament is the only place where the opposition can present its views and proposals, with the current rules of procedure that is not ideal, which is not the best. We know, I know you're terribly disturbed by the fact that the minimum, the possibilities we have now, is to look under our fingertips in the face. But, colleagues and fellow Members, do you think it's necessary to put your eyes under your fingertips? We've had this before, but it didn't work out. We had a delegation system, and here are the roots of this proposal and the appetites and the hiccups of the delegation system. There was a delegation that was gathered somewhere, and then they sent someone to Ljubljana who they knew would not pull out the language. What you're giving to college right now. Here are the solutions that are worthy of the late Eddie. And you've found very innovative solutions. Colleagues and colleagues! It is necessary to realize in time where the trap lies, where the trap is set, for we will all be caught in the trap. You set it up, some set us up with the opposition, but you'll be trapped too. Those who are naively honest realize that your role will be significantly smaller. So far, some of you have wanted to be reduced to a number level. The question is whether you will always be needed as numbers in future rules of procedure. I propose, fellow Members and fellow Members, that we reflect honestly. To quickly respond to what is a reduction in the level of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. I'm sure of it. If we find such a consensus to preserve something that is positive, which we have always supported, then we can continue to talk. Otherwise, the whole thing has to be rejected. And it's better to reject this whole thing and stay with the old rules of procedure than to go down slippery terrain that doesn't lead forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your Honor! My colleagues have spoken to me for a long time. I hope it wasn't a waste of time. And I would limit myself to four points. First time. We all agree that it is necessary to amend the rules of procedure in certain matters in order to make our work more efficient and quality. However, the rules of procedure are not an essential problem. It is an important framework within which Members should do their work well. We can call it a small constitution or a small god and place it in the most honorable place, but without people, without proper relations between people, between Members, sent groups, in the coalition, in the relationship between the opposition and the position cannot change much. I would point out in particular: the attitude of the position towards the opposition. If the position takes place with a kind of height and opposition is rejected without arguments, then the opposition will somehow defend itself and oppose more than it already is. You must understand that the opposition Members are also aware that we have been elected to participate in the adoption and decision-making of good laws. Another time. A new role is given to the President of the National Assembly and to the College, where the decision is passed on, and Members are trying to limit themselves in time and in organisation. Key decisions are expected to take place in the home body and the rules of procedure are given great importance to these authorities. The work of Members will change, so it will also be necessary to change the work in the parliamentary groups, and very small groups of Members will have major difficulties in doing so, as they have very few experts. The Member will have to come by already expertly prepared to the parental committee or committee and there will be no time to draw up an opinion on a particular matter only through discussion. More. Members are members of three or four committees and commissions. And since there is a limited debate in the National Assembly, we will not be able to be fully acquainted with all the matter that we will accept and decide on. In many cases, the idea of better and better regulation of a particular problem is born only after a longer discussion and exchange of views. They will be here under new restrictions, either on the debate or on the amendment. Third time. The problem of professional colleagues in parental work bodies. That's a big problem already. "Experts", as you call them in this house, are getting less and less, are leaving or are overloaded. Other people who help and work in the background are also dissatisfied, as is reflected in the quality of work. Fourth time. The quality of decision-making depends to a large extent on the Government's proposals, which are most poorly prepared, on coalition coherence and tolerance to the opposition, on the professional readiness of the materials and the management of committees and commissions, as well as on the quality of decision-making. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	Dear colleagues, I respectfully ask that you allow Mrs Majda to conclude the debate successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	such cases as today, the President of the National Assembly invites us to an extraordinary meeting, for which we do not yet have the materials to decide, and I think we will decide on important things, on large numbers. [[...]] The MPs aren't spiders who get us or just take us out of the hook and decide what you want. No one will convince me that the government did not know this problem before and that they could have introduced it sooner. All that I have mentioned means and I believe that all the restrictions placed by the position in the Rules of Procedure will help us to improve little if things that are not so much in sight do not change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Someone else would like to discuss it, or the Procedural proposal would be, please, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	Madam President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the New Slovenia delegation, I request or propose that the work of the National Assembly be suspended as chairman. As you know, we have received a proposal for a guarantee law to cover the insurance coverage of air carriers, which will be addressed at an extraordinary meeting. Since this is a very important act that will have some major consequences for the Republic of Slovenia, it takes time to consult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnic's procedural proposal will be defined in accordance with Article 72 of the National Assembly. Mr Drobnic suggested that we stop the meeting so that they could prepare for the marriage. That's up to the National Assembly. Where the national assembly so decides, paragraph three. We are voting on a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	I don't have a voting device.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u84	Are you objecting to the outcome of the vote because the voting device is not working?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u85	I demand a repeat vote because the voting apparatus is not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u86	Now, this moment is not working for anyone, because when I turn on the vote, then the lights turn on. We'll re-vote. Please be careful, otherwise we'll ask the technical service to examine your voting device.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u87	I agree, Madam President. I warned you when the time was running out that it wasn't working for me, that it wasn't working for me at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u88	Please kindly, if you can pull the card out again, put it back in the slot and we will repeat the vote. We are re-voting the procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. Please, Mr Jerovšek, a procedural proposal? Again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following the decision just made, I find that the majority in this National Assembly feel that what the Government has presented to us in order to address at an emergency meeting is not an urgent, urgent matter. I don't want to be unprepared for this session. It does not appear, therefore, that it is important for this national assembly that decisions be weighed and that we can make a decision in mind. Perhaps a college has already decided on this and has already made decisions. Today, we are witnessing that the rules in the rules of the Rules of Procedure have already been applied in your conduct. But since this meeting is obviously not urgently necessary, it does not have much importance for the Slovenian country, I suggest that there is no extraordinary meeting today. We don't want to be unprepared, but you don't want to be prepared for the meeting. For this reason, I suggest that this is when you think it is important to agree that there is no extraordinary session today. We are voting on this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. He was a representative of your parliamentary group at the College of the National Assembly. There was no question that possible consideration of the Rules of Procedure by 6 p.m. could prevent work. An extraordinary meeting means that it can also last late at night and you will have the opportunity at an extraordinary meeting to clear up all issues, even from article to article. However, you abused the business institute of the procedural proposal because it was not a procedural proposal for which the national assembly would be responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u91	Sure. I demand a vote that today is not an extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u92	An extraordinary meeting has already been called for, following consultations with the President at the College of the National Assembly. [[The voices in the background.]] Since the general debate has been concluded, we are moving on to a decision-making process. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u93	No, no, it hasn't been finished yet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u94	Mr. Jerovšek! I respectfully ask that you do not interfere with the third reading of the Rules of Procedure. In the general debate on the draft law of the Rules of Procedure in the third reading, Mrs Majda Zupan took the floor and the general debate was closed. But we still have a whole bunch of amendments in the third reading, and you've already announced the debates on these amendments. We are therefore going through the Procedural proposal. [[...]] Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I think that this afternoon and the evening that awaits us is not meant to deal with heavy blood on one side or on the other, but given that the previous procedural proposal has not been adopted, I propose a different proposal. But here's what I'm justifying before I finally formulate it. I was on behalf of New Slovenia at the College of the President of the National Assembly. There, I would say, more than favorably, we have taken note of the Government's desire to apologize for such haste and we have said: but now we have a slightly more extraordinary situation than most of the proposals coming into this house. And let us act as soon as possible so that our national or economic or any other interests are covered. However, we would certainly not want to come to this relatively early session at half past six o’clock in the evening, for which I have taken it upon myself that it is already today, not until tomorrow that we are not ready. Therefore, more than a proposal from our group was put in place to take the time to prepare for the first meeting. We want to meet at six with the man who represents us to come ready, not just to listen to what needs to be gained. We from Europe are now collecting data on how other governments have reacted, on what dates and on what amounts they have discussed. We have a difference of 1:3 with our government. I'm very worried about whether we're going to guarantee 750 million guarantees for one year, or we're going to be in four weeks. I suppose so much maturity that we, as parliamentarians of this country, will take an hour to prepare. It's not about the cough of a cat. That is why I propose, not immediately as Mr Petty Officer has suggested, but that at five this session should be suspended so that we can have the opportunity to prepare ourselves for this. Otherwise, I give up my responsibility for the quality of decision-making on this subject, because we will not be able to influence this matter. I therefore ask that the meeting of the Assembly be suspended at five o’clock to prepare for the meeting of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Peterlet's procedural proposal to suspend the meeting at 5 p.m. and to prepare Members for the meeting of the Committee, I give the honourable assembly a decision. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. That's how we're gonna stop working at 5:00. We are now continuing and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to the examination of this draft Rules of Procedure will be taken if they are voted on by 2/3 of the Members present. Mr. Bernick, please. Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much, ma'am. No, no, no. Before Mr Petnik applied for a procedural proposal, I applied, and I guess you didn't see me, so I would ask that I have the opportunity to say a few words in the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u98	I apologize if I missed you, but the treatment was interrupted, we are in the decision-making phase, Dr. Bernik, I sincerely hope that you will find at the time of the consideration of the amendments that open up all the questions that may be weighing you, sufficient opportunity for a five-minute debate on each of these amendments. Regrettably, however, this part of the hearing is concluded. And more than five minutes at each amendment, you have a chance to give your word. Unfortunately, I cannot give you the floor because the debate in this part, as you call it, has already been concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u99	I very much respect your opinion, Madam President, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u100	That's not an opinion, that was a decision, and I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u101	However, the decision must also be made on the basis of facts. If you're looking down and you don't see someone who turns up, then that's your problem, not mine. I will not ask you to give me your word, but I will remember very well how this is going here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by Mr Pukšič on the Procedural proposal. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u103	Madam President, we can, of course, look at the magnetogram and you will find out when the lady has finished the debate, was a procedural proposal, at that moment you are not, you are not, and you can check it out from the magnetogram, you have concluded the general debate. Like Dr. Bernick, someone else wanted a debate in five minutes. In view of the fact that after three procedural proposals you have concluded the general debate, which was contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because you have not given the opportunity or anyone else wants to discuss it within five minutes, I am procedurally proposing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether or not Dr Bernik will give the debate in five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Because you're in violation of the rules of procedure, I'm going to put my decision under review by the National Assembly. The procedural proposal that general treatment was not concluded that Dr Bernik's right to discuss was violated in general work. We are voting on this. Let us vote on the procedural proposal to allow Dr Bernik to hold his debate in the context of the general debate within a period of five minutes. This means that we will continue with the general debate if this decision is taken. We are voting on this. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 29. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that a general debate is still open on the basis of the decision of the National Assembly, which means that we continue to do so. Dr. Bernick, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u105	Madam President, thank you very much. I don't like to argue with a lady, it's either the rules of procedure or something. First, I would correct the mistake I made this morning when I greeted the President or the President, but I did not welcome my fellow Members and my fellow Members and not a representative of the government, Mag. John the Burner. Well, hello. I just have a few things I'd like to say, and that's next. After hearing the whole debate this morning and this afternoon, it seems to me that we should really all think well of what is going on here, not so substantively, but formally, and what we really want to achieve with this. Look. There is a lot of division in Slovenian society, but Members, who are only 90 of us, could focus more or less on what we really want to give to this country and also this rules of procedure. There has been a lot of talk about what is bad for this Rules of Procedure, for the proposals of the Rules of Procedure - there is no replica, then time limits, the College meetings will decide the question here is whether Members can go to these College meetings as observers or listeners. [[...]] I think that in our constitution we should have a preamble that would actually lay the foundations for debate and decision-making in the National Assembly. For this is not in our Rules of Procedure, whereas many other Rules of Procedure have this and are also morally binding on Members. Let me mention here that, last year or this spring, we started to talk about the creation of an expert commission of external advisers, where the parties could also have their legal representatives, and this missed a great opportunity to really talk at the professional level, professionally - political level about our rules of procedure. Suddenly we get this text from the four applicants, who are all four in college and who are probably very pleased with what they have put together. But we are not, and it seems to me that all the parties that we are represented here should talk and think again about this rule of procedure, the "son of the iraet studio" actually quite calm and thoughtful. There was no such debate in our Parliament, and I fear there will be no debate in the future. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Is my observation correct now that no one else wants to discuss it? Mr Jerovšek, you have already discussed this in the framework of an unlimited general debate. I'm sorry, but the rules of procedure are clear enough here. So now we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. In doing so, I would like to point out that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to the examination of this proposal will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26 September 2001. I am putting two amendments to Article 12 to the debate, under order number 1, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Slovenian Socialist Party of Slovenia Group, which is not supported by the mother's working body, under number 2 and four of the members of the post, with the support of the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petan, please, then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you. So now I'd have more procedural than that. We also got a change on the table. That's like a complement to what you said. It's a correction to the essence of this amendment. We have him on the table because you didn't announce him. That's the only reason I stopped by. If you have it, you'll see it right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u108	At this moment, I have received the amendment's amendment to Article 12. It is said that I am putting an amendment under order number 1 together with an amendment to the debate. Isn't that right, Mr. Petan? Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. We therefore find it reasonable and logical that the proposal for a agenda for the first meeting should include, in addition to the proposals for the appointment of the President and Vice-President, as well as a mandate for the electoral commission, a proposal for the appointment of the Secretary-General of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u110	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I respectfully ask for peace in the Chamber so that Mr Sok can present his position. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u111	Therefore, the position of New Slovenia is that it would make sense to support this proposal, as well as the amendment tabled by the LDS Members' Groups, the United Kingdom, then the SLS+SKD Group and DeSUS to add a new fourth paragraph to the Rules of Procedure, namely that the first meeting of the National Assembly until the election of the President is chaired by the oldest Member of the National Assembly. Such a solution has thus far been reasonable and logical for us to make such a decision, because all other European parliaments, which are based on similar rules, are also regulated by the oldest Member temporarily taking over the role of leading Parliament until the election of Parliament's organs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I support this proposal, also because this prevents an unacceptable 25-Article dictatorship, which provides for the non-relationship of the mandate of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly for the term of office of Members. This is one of the flowers that has infiltrated the Rules of Procedure and is, of course, on the line of everything that I said earlier in the general debate. If you show good will to be aware of some of the shortcomings you have proposed, then I think that this may also be a sign of good will, so that we can reach into the rules of procedure which can be adopted in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. My argument is that the Secretary-General also submits to this appointment at any time of the formation of the new National Assembly: the Secretary-General is actually the manager who runs the whole apparatus and therefore needs to be treated in an identical manner. This is the most fundamental reason why we have put it. Of course, I myself advocate such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to vote on the amendment under order number one to Article 12. We're voting. About the amended amendment under order number one. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 7. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 4. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the amendment under order number two has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 23, which proposes four parliamentary groups of positions, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number two of this review is irrelevant; this is the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? The amendment under order number one was also amended. You're on the verge of getting that fixed. Mr. Anderlich, you want to explain the correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u117	Given that this is an amendment, which, in fact, sets out in its entirety the way of preparing the meetings of the National Assembly, regulates the internal relationship in the National Assembly and, at first glance, can cause difficulties to anyone, too, to make the situation too difficult between the College and the National Assembly - that is to say that the College is gaining more weight than it could possibly have - we have proposed in our talks with representatives of the virtual majority in this National Assembly that, in the fourth paragraph, the text "one-third" should be replaced by the text "one-fifth". We did it for two reasons. The first is that we have unified the majority, which is also needed in the future of the rules of procedure for individual decisions, as well as that it will be contrary to the opinion when it comes to those requirements that will be formulated in the college, with an easier majority of the reachable, change and decision-making on these issues. So we believe that this is a further compromise in the direction of coalition and opposition agreements, so that this Rules of Procedure can be fully supported later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u119	I wanted to immediately at the beginning when you asked if anyone wanted to discuss this article, I raised my hand, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u120	Mr. Pukšič, I'm sorry, it wasn't intentional. I got the amendment in my hand a second ago and I figured out who filed the amendment. And Mr Anderlič is the proposer of this amendment and has volunteered to explain it. I mean, you have every opportunity to discuss the amendment now, the two amendments to Article 23. Certainly, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u121	Madam President, I am talking about one vote, and this time Mr Anderlič also spoke with one voice because he is still in the old rules of procedure. Firstly, we do not yet have these amendments or amendments to this amendment to Article 23 at the tables, by the way. So I don't know that change. And it would be good if we could have it. Will I get it when we get it, even a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u122	Mr Pukšič, the amendment is being copied, but only what Mr Anderlič has explained this moment. In the amendment to article 23, which we have under review, in the fourth paragraph, the words "one-third" are replaced by "one-fifth" by Mr Anderlich. That's all. Explanation: 'The amendment reduces the number of qualified candidates who may challenge the decision of the college on the urgency procedure and require a vote at the meeting of the assembly'.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u123	Good. Nevertheless, I am deeply opposed to article 23. Even with this amendment, which, of course, doesn't change anything. But this is one of the most important amendments - as long as this amendment is adopted, most of the other matters in this Rules of Procedure are significantly less important. And, of course, we can actually finish the story. Article 23 in the second reading of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure has three paragraphs. The amendment to Article 23 shall have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven paragraphs. In the third reading. If this is how we work to completely change the article from second to third reading, then this is totally unacceptable to me. Article 23 states that the College will adopt the programme of work of the National Assembly. All right, he'll be adopting a programme of work for the National Assembly for each year and a timetable for a period of at least two months. You could have done that by now if you wanted, but let's just leave it. So, that's okay. Then, in the second paragraph, he speaks - that is, in the first paragraph of the work programme - in the second paragraph he speaks of a future programme, i.e., "the deadline programme sets the days for the meetings of the national assembly and the working bodies and a list of the envisaged cases and the days on which the individual cases are to be dealt with". This is also fine; this was accepted in the second reading with a more than two-thirds majority present. The third paragraph states: "When adopting the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the College shall take account of the Government's programmes for the current year, the proposals of the groups of Members and the proposals of the working bodies." And that's fine, too. Fellow Members, fellow Members, look at the amendment to Article 23, which is completely changing this Article! "Article 23 is amended to read," which means that paragraph 23 is completely amended. Is it normal for Members and Members of Parliament to amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the third reading? Is that acceptable to you? Yes, it is. That means, like someone said today, with that one, not with arguments, but with power. If that's what it is, it can't be acceptable. I believe that even for that part of the Members who will think and think clearly with their heads, it is unacceptable. For that part of Members who can still work and work today in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution. It is unacceptable for me that Article 23 will be fully replaced by the fact that the College of the National Assembly will decide whether the law will be adopted in accordance with the urgent procedure for the College to be a college - it is now decided by the National Assembly, and this is and must remain the responsibility of the National Assembly. The proposal to deal with the draft law in the shorter procedure was in the national assembly, and this must remain in the national assembly. These are already two reasons why, of course, this amendment to Article 23 cannot be adopted. On the proposal to have a preliminary examination of the law - it is impossible for colleges to decide whether Members and Members will have the right to have a preliminary debate on the law in the national assembly. So it's not the first treatment if, of course, it's acceptable. That's why I'm warning you this is unacceptable. During the duration of the meeting of the national assembly and during the consideration of individual agenda items, and at the time of setting the duration of the debates of Members and other participants of the meeting or groups of Members. If someone has decided on this, then at a meeting of the national assembly, on a proposal from a parliamentary group or a member, the chairman shall put to the vote the national assembly on restrictions. This violates the democracy already acquired, the rights acquired by the Member - this is not only a violation, it is contrary, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, to the 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution. Colleges cannot decide on the number of posts in the staff and cannot form a national assembly delegation in the international parliamentary institutions, etc. I agree that the College of the National Assembly may decide on a time limit within which the Council of State may deliver an opinion; I agree that the College of the National Assembly may decide [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u124	Your colleagues on your right [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u125	And your colleagues on your left.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u126	Most of the silence is there. I know that better from that perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 5:02 p.m. Mr President, I would like to make a notification, but I would like to allow Mr Puksic to finish his debate and ask for the peace needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u127	Given that there will be an opportunity for the President of the National Assembly, and given that it is already 5 p.m. and that we have yet another extraordinary meeting, the Committee, etc., Madam President, I will interrupt my debate and continue tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Can I have your attention on the following notice? As you know, at 1 p.m. today, I invited the leaders of the parliamentary groups to a meeting, at which Minister Gantar, as a representative of the government, also participated in the proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting for the law on which this was discussed, regarding the guarantee to the air carrier Adria Airways. The Minister of Gantar stated there the reasons why the reference to the extraordinary meeting was in a hurry. The leaders of the parliamentary groups took note of this responsibility and accepted it. That is why there is also a consensus decision to hold a meeting. As you know, we have a provision with the rules of procedure that allows the Council of State to speak before or before the opening of the debate in the National Assembly. I immediately contacted the President of the Council of State, my colleague Hrovat and asked him if he could find at the correspondence meeting that the Council of State does not have a negative opinion on this issue. Now a few minutes ago, he informed me in writing about the following: "I inform you that I convened the seventh correspondence meeting on the basis of Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure of the State Council. On the basis of Article 52(1), the State Council did not agree to the holding of the correspondence meeting, so I convened the 66th regular meeting of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: a proposal for a guarantee for the insurance coverage of air carriers. I propose a procedural conclusion that we now meet for a brief consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. It's a very responsible decision. I would like to consult with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. If we find that it is not possible to proceed today because of this decision of the meeting of the National Assembly, I would suggest that we continue today at 17.15 to 18:00 to discuss the Rules of Procedure. I ask for the patience of my colleague and colleagues, given the circumstances of waiting for a decision that we will now take in a few minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, I hereby adjourn the meeting. We'll continue at 5 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you very much. Since it's a little late, we'll continue at 5:30. [[...]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats because the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, will inform us of the agreement reached at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Before that, we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button politely. We're detecting a presence. There are 57 Members and Members present, which means that we are final and we can make a valid decision. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Today, not for the first time in the National Assembly, but for the last time, a very busy and busy day, we all have a lot of responsibilities. I would therefore like first of all to thank the leaders of the parliamentary groups for their patience and for their great understanding in coordinating their views on the work of the national assembly. The decision is as follows. In view of the foregoing, we must take into account the decision of the State Council to hold a meeting tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. Without an opinion on the Rules of Procedure, which was recently amended, we cannot begin either a meeting of the working body or an extraordinary meeting of the national assembly. I would like to say that the National Assembly has taken all the necessary decisions in the situation in which we are in order to help resolve the matter proposed by the Government in the process. The Council of State has made this decision, and we must respect that decision, and we cannot pass it. We have decided to continue to decide on the amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure by 6 p.m. today. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we continue our consideration of the Ombudsman's report. When the Council of State is concluded, I will invite the President of the committee responsible to convene a meeting of the committee; when the meeting of the committee is concluded, a State assembly will also meet tomorrow at an extraordinary meeting. On Tuesday, according to questions raised by Prime Minister Drnovšk, the opposition groups will continue with Wednesday's drought law with the Rules of Procedure. That's the decision. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Respected and respected, we therefore continue where we have interrupted our work. Mr Sok spoke to the two amendments to Article 23. Here you go, Mr. Sok. Mr Pukšič, I'm sorry you haven't finished your discussion yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. I mentioned earlier which parts of article 23 of the amendments I do not agree with and started with what I agree with. Two proposals, but these two, which speak of a time limit within which the Council of State may give an opinion, and of other matters for which the Rules of Procedure so provide. To be decided by the College of the National Assembly, it is already in Article 23. Article 23 also contains a programme for the work of the National Assembly and Article 23 also provides a deadline for a period of at least two months. There is absolutely no reason to accept this amendment. It is therefore absolutely necessary to reject this amendment. Of course, I cannot accept the second and third paragraphs, which speak if the College does not reach an agreement that the College's decisions will then be taken if that is decided by those who have sufficient Members behind them, that is, the leaders of the Group of Members to decide on behalf of the whole Group of Members. I do not agree, of course, with the part where it says that the meeting of the College is concluded if it is attended by the leaders of the Group of Members. In view of what has just been said by the President of the National Assembly regarding the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we cannot have today, and it seems unacceptable to me that, in the case of such emissary lawyers, such a correction has been adopted and that it is impossible for the work of the National Assembly to be normal and is linked to some previous, even in exceptional cases or situations, some transitional decision could also happen in this case, if there were no leader of the parliamentary group, the largest or two of the three largest parliamentary groups, but because of this, the State Assembly could not work, unless, of course, it would have delegated authority to anyone else. That is why, of course, this can do more harm to us in the rules of procedure. That is why, of course, I will not support such an amendment in any way and very seriously, I very seriously think, if such an amendment were adopted, that then, in fact, Members and Members would no longer perform the function given after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and would of course come upon a delegation system, what once was. However, if this were accepted of course, then I am deeply convinced that there is no need for members of the National Assembly to be professional, but then someone who will do so at his service. Then, of course, the head of the party, the one who will be at the entrance of the parliamentary parties and the leader of the Member or leader of those elected Members, will mean two of each party, regardless of the number of elected parties, depending on the threshold of 4 per cent, that means a minimum of four Members. By adopting this Article, this amendment to Article 23 is an infringement of the constitutional rights of Members and Members, and I believe that such acceptance of the amendment to Article 23 would not survive a positive debate in other instances, which, of course, still exist in the rule of law. I therefore propose to my colleagues and colleagues that they do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I also note that it is quite unusual that the amendments have practically changed the whole article 23 with the same content in the second reading. It was then Article 25, when, in fact, the debate revolved around this article and was one of the basic articles in the Rules of Procedure itself. At that time, we spent several hours on reasoning, opposition, advocacy, and now, of course, this matter is repeated here in some way. It is true that I had the opportunity, and as Mr Anderlič said in the introduction, when he said that the opposition had also agreed on some of the solutions in this article, so I must say that this matter is partly true. In particular, they respected this agreement by turning the third, fourth, paragraph 1/3 of the Members into 1/5 of the Members. So at this point, we still don't have this amendment on the table. I don't know, maybe the rest of you got it, but our group still doesn't have it. By asking the leadership of the National Assembly to certainly arrange for Members to receive this proposal in writing. This is the procedure under the current rules of procedure and I ask that we respect it. This Article 23 is certainly related to that Article, which still provides in this Rules of Procedure that the College shall be closed to the public. In fact, this 23rd article gives great powers. What we have discussed with the proponents is that, in some way before the amendment was decided, the LDS Group would require a half break, where it would be definitively defined as an open issue, namely the last sentence of the second paragraph, which says: "The decision of the College is taken if a proposal is supported by the leaders of the groups of Members, with a total number of members from those who oppose it." So this is a matter that we have been opposed to all the time, and it is a weighty decision-making. It's a weighty decision-making. This article, as it is written here, would in practice mean that practically two of the leaders of the LDS Group, the leader of the LDS Group and the leader of the United Nations Group, could practically decide everything on their own, because they represent half Yes, because it is really difficult to listen to these debates and it is also difficult to discuss in this Parliament, which at times seems to be in a bee tree. [[...]] With a shrapnel. So this is the case, and it was also somehow in a dialogue with the LDS that was initiated and promised that liberal democracy with its coalition partners would try to examine if this second sentence on the weighted decision was not released from this article, which would also make this article acceptable to the opposition to some extent. At this point, if this article were to remain as it is, what would actually happen today in the debate is already my fellow Member, Drobnic, when he said that the college would actually become a small parliament. So, this situation in Parliament would be reframed as a college, the college would decide with great competences, so it would have great powers, and without the public, to the extent that all amendments are adopted as proposed. So such solutions seem unacceptable to us, and we certainly cannot agree with them. Once again, I would like to point out that the whole rules of procedure can fall at such irregular points. It is important to be aware that you need the support of two-thirds of the Members present, so I suggest that you reconsider this and that you may also try to stop the session for five, ten minutes, and that this matter should be decided to become acceptable. Well, we don't agree with the Ponderian way of going to college. For all the leaders of the parliamentary groups would lose their office in such a determination, and all the vice-presidents of the national assembly would lose their office. Although we could attend college meetings, we would not have any real weight. In fact, the President of Parliament would lose his powers on such a record, as the two presidents of the parliamentary groups, with the help of perhaps DeSUS, could in fact decide everything. I would thus conclude our presentation and say that the New Slovenia Group does not intend to support such solutions as are set out in this Article 23. And if you accept this in such a form, of course we will oppose the Rules of Procedure as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich has the replica, and then Mr Jerovšek and Mr Drobnic have the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u138	I regret that Mr Sok, in the face of countless discussions on how it would make sense to regulate certain relations in the national assembly, was not paying enough attention or somehow unwilling to follow the basic intentions set out here in this article. It is true, Mr Sok, that there is no secret that this amendment is trying to somehow transform Parliament into a college. The Constitutional part of this National Assembly is parliamentary groups, and, of course, since the Constitution, they have their role, even when representatives of the parliamentary groups go to the President of the country to discuss which proposal they will support, say, for the Ombudsman or something else. The President of the country asks how many votes we can count on from your parliamentary group. This would mean, in other words, that all 90 Members, if we are talking about your case, all 90 Members should go to the President of the State and say, "I will support, say, the Ombudsman's candidate, the other not, and he would eventually add up. [[...]] For the responsibility of the President of the State under the Constitution is so great that he cannot go on an adventure that he goes on with a proposal that does not have any advance identification with the number of votes that a proposal in the National Assembly may receive. And here come the parliamentary groups once again as a constitutional element of this national assembly, where they plan, set up frameworks and organise their own work, so that this will run in some order in this Chamber. If you have looked closely at this amendment and the basic article 25 in the second reading, which has not been adopted - it speaks solely of procedural issues, regarding the way in which the work is done, the setting of the time schedule, the setting of working bodies, the setting of the composition and so on. Just procedural questions and nothing else. There is no speech about excluding the decision-making option and so on. Any matter which, from the point of view of the inclusion of laws on the agenda and the facilitating of general debate and so on, is defined in other articles and is possible. Of course, this rule of procedure assumes that it will not be possible at the last moment to change what I do not know, but that two months in advance will have to be planned and requested, let's say general treatment in first reading, to put amendments into deadlines. If, of course, there was any chance that the college would not have this hearing, that proposal in the amended amendment, which I had explained earlier, had improved, say, or made a more loose provision, which says 'one-fifth'. I wanted to explain to Mr Puksic earlier what the difference between 1/3 and 1/2 is. 33 percent to 20 percent down. That's the difference between me and Mr. Pukšič somehow replicating. And I think that's a big difference, and that's what binds us all to responsible work. There is really no need for me to say, as long as I am the leader of the parliamentary group, I am going to a college where I am representing the opinion of 34 Members and Members, but I do not have the opportunity, together with your or "vis-a-vis" of your parliamentary group, including the nationalities groups, the SNS, DeSUS and SMS, that is, the five groups of Members, that I have no voice there and my opinion is void. This may also be the case, but the design of this article or this amendment is designed so that the things that we are procedurally entanglement here are done there. And if it weighs down in advance, I'm going to start and I'm going to end it if you know how many votes there will be in the National Council for a procedural proposal, it's really stupid to vote the majority of the votes in college and just repeat the exercise here. That's not what I'm for, and that's why we've prepared a way of doing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate back, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This, as regards how the President of the State received an opinion from the leaders of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament, of course, was not the answer to what I have pointed out. I've highlighted a weighted decision-making approach. It is quite clear, I also know that the President of the State will not ask and not ask each Member individually until now, but he has invited the party presidents or the leaders of the Group of Members to consult them. What you are saying as a problem, which I am firmly convinced, must be a solution that is a matter of a coalition treaty. Secondly, the question is whether this coalition agreement does not work in our situation. That's another question. But the fact that you're negotiating in college what you're going to do and how you're going to do it, that's not the point of this article. These matters should be settled in a coalition agreement that you have as a ruling position, and there should be mutual relations between ruling parties. What we are pointing out, however, is, of course, the problem with our assumption, once again, that the College's meetings are closed to the public, that they are secret, we point out that there are too many procedures playing out with us. I don't know, my colleague Peterle listed here yesterday how many articles we discussed in this House following a rapid procedure, despite the fact that we still have in this Rules of Procedure a definition of when a rapid procedure can be applied. He's talking about emergency situations. As a result, we can conclude that there are times when we are constantly in a situation of emergency. Based on experience, when position yes, colleague of the Potch. [[...]] I don't expect work and decision-making to improve. When it is hidden from the public, I think it will only get worse, especially because you did not allow this House to do something for the pluralisation of the media itself. But this is another matter, but it is also related to work in our country, in Parliament, in the government and in college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Now we have three replicas, first of all implementation, to the previous, Mr Anderlič, also want to replicate Mr Jerovšek and Mr Pukšič, and then Mr Anderlič's implementation of Mr Sok. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u142	Look. By amending this Article, what was not read in the second reading, which was rejected in the second reading in this national assembly, this means that it was not adopted by a qualified majority, that you now wanted to go to the left and bring all the essential decisions to the College of the National Assembly. All decisions that will take place, and in the closed part of the College of the National Assembly, that is to say, in the case of Article 100, the matter will be closed is simply unacceptable. In view of the rules of procedure that we have now, you have also, as far as you have been allowed, either procedurally or commercially, but if not, tried to blur out or bypass certain decisions that should have been in a normal state of law if Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution were to apply, that the rule of law is respected. Just remember how many maneuvers you've done, what you've done, what's happened to the people's will, what's happened to the Constitutional Court's decision, what's been done to make all this happen. Now that the matter will be closed to the public when it is decided by two or three Members, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, who will hold most of them, are, in fact, a few decades ago. I can't let that happen! See, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, contrary to the law, but by the vote of the majority, you also decided that the report of the Commission of Inquiry at the National Assembly had not been considered. The previous commission discussed and identified the criminality of Ljubljana's banks in Germany and so on about Elan and so on. You didn't want this report! We knew a lot of this stuff back then. These are the reasons why such a article is not good. He's not good for democracy! You can laugh as much as you want, but it either brings you back to what happened decades ago. Of course, some of you have been actors in this history, this act, this action, and I don't know why after ten years you want to walk the young grass that has begun to grow completely - which is called democracy. You don't have this mandate! This mandate has been given to Members of Parliament and Members of the electorate and the electorate. We have received it, and you do not have this mandate to amend it with just one article in the Rules of Procedure. You can't because it's in conflict with democratic decisions, with what happens only in elections. The term of office of a Member shall be as set out in the Constitution, as yet in Article 82. And you can't get this right from the head of the parliamentary groups and the heads of political parties. And the right to decide and vote on this in my name does not have either my head of the delegation nor my president of the party. He doesn't have it and he won't have it! If it's different with some others, that's your problem. There is no reason, no serious reason to accept such an amendment. Even more so, colleagues and colleagues, because it's in the third reading, because that's not right, because it's behind the curve, because it's bad! And we don't agree to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to my colleague Anderlich for his last performance, because I now understand better the intentions and, I think, also these two paragraphs on the weighted vote. My former fellow Member, Ivo Praise, would say, "Jung, the Theory of Conscience" came on the day. Indeed, I see now that this has taken place or is at the back that colleague Anderlič, as the leader of the largest group of Members in this mandate, has taken the exercise into his hands many times and has given the President of the National Assembly no confidence. He was implementing a policy that he was "de facto" the president of the National Assembly and the president of the National Assembly "de jure" formally. I now point out that this danger will be significantly greater. We're going to have a situation where the situation, what's to be written, doesn't match the actual state. "De facto", the leader of the largest parliamentary group will, in fact, be the president of the National Assembly and the dream of life. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u145	Mr Jerovšek, I respectfully ask that you do not run your demagogies with the right to replica. Please limit yourself to Mr Anderlich's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u146	No, what blocked the work of the National Assembly a few times, I remember, it's going to multiply, it's actually going to multiply. That's logical, because it's human, that people have some will to power and that they also want to transfer it to a formal form. But we are responsible, the National Assembly, to sort of balance these things and make them acceptable and normal. However, if this is to be done, of course, I would suggest that because the leader of the two largest parliamentary groups in the government will be very burdened and will have a very large responsibility to give them the salary of US congressmen according to the model of the Ljubljana Bank, because they will have an appropriate responsibility and will earn the wages of American congressmen. Why, if there can be American wages in the bank, why shouldn't there be American wages in Parliament?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u148	In fact, all three discussions, or all three replicas, that were challenged to my replica, answered in themselves the essence of the question that you're all asking yourself or we're asking ourselves at the time of this amendment. In fact, it is only that, gentlemen, all three that this amendment says that what we infertilely deal with here, procedural and other matters, is that someone on behalf of these groups who are represented in the National Assembly, which are a constitutional category, if you want, is not my will - my task is much greater than that of Mr Jelinčič, because after this amendment I have previously consulted 33 Members and Members of Parliament, and Mr Jelinčič with three. Of course, when I know, on the basis of a preliminary consultation, that within two months, there will be a deadline for this and that, and I know what they think, I can say there in college and I must say, one law will be supported, another will not be supported, etc., and that you also know this, that of course you would not waste all 90 Members of the time on these procedural issues. Only this is the subject of a speech in this amendment - to make the organisation transparent, a timetable to define, to lay down laws that will meet the conditions for them to go into procedure and so on. And, of course, it is not a basic postulate of the College of Voting; it is a basic agreement between the parliamentary groups. And a blind man would think that with some quasi majority he carried with some voices behind him, he could overrun everyone. This is not happening now, and it can't happen anyway. And it is only when all these options are exhausted that the negotiations are envisaged to be voted on. And even after the vote has been carried out, 1/5 Members can be gathered and said, we do not agree, within five days, within 5 days that they do not agree with this decision and require a change. One fifth of you know what it is. And when that, let's say no, works, because if it doesn't work out, things can change in the congregation. So the thing is foreseen by some procedure, organized, planned in advance, not succinctly, and the purpose of this amendment is this. There's no speech about anyone being deprived of their rights. It is true, however, that there are some proposals in this national assembly of parliamentary groups that need to be negotiated and put in place with some positions. And I think that there really is no need here to debate widely and for a long time whether it is necessary to plan the work, whether it is necessary to organise it, whether it is necessary to know in advance whether the materials are ready and so on and so forth. So I really won't come forward anymore, because I know, too, Mr Sok, because you're referring to the agreements that I've given a lot of initiative to talk about, that we agree with a lot of people, and so on. However, I also know that there is now a break or two or if you end at half past six because you would suggest that you consult on what we have been discussing for one year under this Rules of Procedure. So there is no secret here, and that is why I will not be adhering to this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-09-27-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. A number of colleagues have been reported for discussion. Based on the decision and according to the course of time, it's 6:06 p.m., so I'm adjourning the session. The debate on Article 23 is open. Tomorrow we resume work at 10 a.m. We will consider the Ombudsman's report. Thank you so much and good night.
