ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Mirko Zamernik, Dr. Miha Brejc, Jelko Kacin, Franc Čebulj, Anton Delak, Ljubo Germič - I apologize, Mr Delak is among us - Yuri Malovrov for the afternoon part of the session, Sonja Areh Lavrič, Bogdan Barovič for the afternoon part of the session, Andrej Gerenčer, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Stanislav Brenčič for the start of the afternoon part of the session and Ivan Bozič from 17:00 p.m. Since we will determine the presence in the hall, please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. [[...]] There are 50 Members and Members present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. Today's continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the adjourned 28th item of the agenda - a proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia; then the assembly will move on to the hearing of the 27th item - a proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and stormy traffic in 2001; then to the consideration of the suspended 12th item - a proposal for an inspection law; and in order to proceed. So we move on to 28. It's a day's work. You have a new review ahead of you, starting on 2 October 2001. The stage in which we are is the debate on the amendments to Article 23, namely to renew: two amendments have been tabled under Article 23, one is the amendment, the proposed amendment of which is four parliamentary groups of positions, with a footnote, if this amendment has been adopted, the amendment under point two of this review is irrelevant, and the amendment under order number two is the amendment of the new Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Vizjak, please, then Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I still have, as I have had, a point of view in the content of the Rules of Procedure, where, from the current competence of the National Assembly, certain things are transferred to the College of the National Assembly in terms of decision-making, not consultation, but decision-making, exactly the same concerns as I had in the second reading. I believe, in accordance with the Constitution, that a Member of a kind is individual and decision-making in the National Assembly is based on a live voice. By transferring the decision to the College of the National Assembly, we also grant the College or a member of the College the share right to act on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, which is thus not present. He shall have this individual or the vote of an individual Member. I understand this when it comes to questions of a more procedural nature or organizational nature. However, there are also some of these powers that will now be exercised in terms of the decision-making of colleges, which I think would be very good for them to be decided by a Member as a single vote. I would somehow still understand this if the meetings were held or if the College were to be held in public. In practice, however, it will be decided on a college without the presence of the public and in terms of voting for all its Members in the parliamentary group. In this sense, I certainly will not support this article as long as it remains so. Especially in the sense that college decision-making is secret. I kind of disagree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please. The procedural proposal has priority. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Democracy begins and ends in respect of the procedure. Let me remind you where you ended your last session at this point. It ended in replicas. And I was one of the ones who was reported as a replica. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that you return the beginning of this debate to where you have concluded it. And, of course, allow all those who had replicas to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. However, you were reported to the replica several times. In fact, I think the replica has already been reasserting things you don't agree with. Mr. Pukšič, the debate is open. You can do it again, you don't know who you're trying to replicate anymore, so if you'll excuse me, you can sign up for the debate and give your opinion again. We're moving on. Mr. Visac, please. That wasn't an apology. [[...]] We continue the general debate. Mr. Pukšič, report to the debate. Because we don't know who you wanted to replicate. You have used the replica to claim twenty times, I have indicated that, with the opinion of the coalition and the proposal, the real regulation in article 23, you do not agree [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Are you objecting to this? [[...]] Here you go again. Then the state council will decide what I have decided. If you don't agree with me, you have this business option.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I don't know why, but I do know that the President is not for this, or for the President to count how many times the opposition Member may use this or another term or this or other sentence. I know it's because he needs to know who he's replicating to. That's the president's job, and that was your job. If you have not done your job, I have also informed you of this procedurally well-intentionedly and, of course, I have expected, quite naively, that you will correct your mistake in this way, as I myself have suggested in the procedural proposal. Once again, I propose that the debate return to the point where it was last concluded, otherwise it is a violation of the rules of procedure. I myself have been reported as a replica, I wanted to replicate Mr Anderlich when he spoke of the importance and the patrimony of individual heads of Members, sent groups to the college. That's what I was trying to replicate. And, of course, this is not for discussion. That's for Mr. Anderlich's replica. I hope that this time you will not violate the rules of procedure and that you will enable me to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Not to delay, sir, you have a replica, Mr. Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In this point, when it comes to weighting, the weighted votes of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I agree in the part where Mr Anderlič speaks about the responsibility of the individual parliamentary group and, indirectly, the responsibilities of the leader of the parliamentary group, given the number of Members. But this is part of the truth. The second part of the truth is, on the other hand, Mr Anderlič, in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we have parliamentary groups, which are in the seventh or eighth place, their weight and responsibility against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is significantly smaller than that of the other parliamentary party in the national elections. So the second in a row at the national elections. However, the Group of Members and Members of the Social Democratic Party, of course, do not have these options in the Government of expression and implementation of our programme, which we have promised the electorate and the electorate, of course. Therefore, our responsibility is so great and important that it is expressed and reflected in the National Assembly. Therefore, under no circumstances can we allow you to adopt such rules so that the power of the parliamentary group, which was second in the national elections, would be eliminated by just two votes, by the votes of the two Members who are currently in the coalition and who together will be able to vote 45 votes in closed session of the College.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. And now in the next order, as I've seen you raise your hands so you can get ready. First Mr Vizjak, then Mr Pece, Mr Sok, Mr Anderlic and Mr Tsukjat, then Mr Jerovšek. First, Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. At this point and at this amendment, I would point out the following: Firstly, we are in the third reading of the Rules of Procedure and it seems to me entirely about the procedure illogical and also controversial that such important substantive debates or dilemmas as the introduction of this College with all these powers do not belong to the third reading, but this would be judged earlier, and if previously rejected, it does not belong here. I think that the decision has already fallen on this and is just a play of some procedure, that this is being dragged back in and, of course, does the pressures, both of them and of course, and therefore wants this to be unacceptable, an already unacceptable decision to be put back into being. I think this is contrary to the idea of the Rules of Procedure and the idea of the third reading of the Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. The second is that this amendment also opens up a series of dilemmas, or even vague possible consequences. What is it and how will the independent Members act in this college and with their will as defined in the Constitution? Members who may either separate from any other group of Members shall not join the other group of Members and act individually for which they have the right and duty under the Constitution. However, this Article 23 and the College somehow, as I understand it, does not cover them. How, in this case, can these Members express and represent the interest of the electoral base, those people who have chosen them? That's another thing. The third point is that this amendment also destroys the role, the constitutional role of a Member. Because on behalf of the parliamentary group, the leader of the parliamentary group and a member of this college will somehow have the power and the opportunity to represent the interests of the entire parliamentary group in a very responsible and very controversial way, because a debate can develop in the college, including a series of new issues that would be difficult to prepare first, and here the individual will decide on behalf of the independent Members, which I think is disputed by the constitutional principle. For decisions in a college that can result from such improvisation can ultimately have very controversial consequences for an individual. I think that this solution is a bad one, a solution for the college to decide. I would agree that the competent authority should decide on certain matters such as personnel and the like, but that the College would have such powers, I cannot support it in any way, and for those reasons I cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! It was written in 2000 when this National Assembly was engaged in amending electoral legislation, electoral legislation under the pretext of bringing elections closer to people and making them in terms of better personalisation - so that people could influence the naming of this quorum or this national assembly. Today, however, the amendment to Article 23, which we are discussing, puts the debate on the personalisation of elections on the part of all parliamentary groups on individuals, individuals forming a parliamentary group. We all know or to understand what is being done by this amendment to Article 23 proposed by government parties in this National Assembly. In view of the fact that, politically, everyone has already decided, with the support of the amendment mentioned above, I would only like to appeal to those individuals who have entered this National Assembly consciously who have decided for their candidacy to try to improve this country in order to try to make their own contribution. But, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be possible to make its own contribution if this Article 23 is adopted. Why? Easy. For example, I will take the most powerful parliamentary group in this National Assembly, not to challenge the replicas. But colleagues and fellow Members of the Group of Liberal Democracy, in this case your essence, is the essence of an individual who is created to think and think, destroyed. Unfortunately, all your autonomy will be transferred to the leader of the parliamentary group. I think that all those Members who support this amendment unfortunately agree. So to transfer part of their human rights and duties to another person. I personally find this irresponsible, unworthy of the Member's Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! We have, in fact, debated and debated this issue for several hours, and we are now returning this debate to its starting point. The basic provision of the Rules of Procedure is to be adopted by a two-thirds majority of those present. We have also copied this from the rules of procedure of the democratically developed countries. Why did they enter this provision? Simply to protect the minority from the majority in Parliament. And if today this decision, which you are returning to this Rules of Procedure and with which you want to arrange for the College of President to actually become a small Parliament and start to decide instead of a Parliament, if you take this decision today, then, honourable Members and Members, those who will vote for it will in fact do so with an extremely stingy majority. The Rules of Procedure should be a compromise. You have repeatedly mentioned that this is a small constitution of Parliament, with which to achieve some kind of consensus that should apply to all. Once again, I stress that the Rules of Procedure should actually protect the minority from the majority, because most always have enough votes to vote on the opposition, which is always in the minority in each Parliament. And you are somehow aware of this vote in Parliament, and you are afraid that, after all, the media will also notice and have to report to this Slovenian nation once, how it is happening, I would say, to a parliamentary roller player who does not want to discuss certain matters at all, but simply votes, such as, say, a bill on drought for this year on the Infrastructure Committee. After the new Rules of Procedure, such matters, which will be re-elected, will no longer be discussed on individual working bodies, nor will they be discussed at all. And yet I would like to remind you that it is you who represent the parliamentary majority here today that have emplaced and put in the constitution a 4% electoral threshold. And by changing the constitution in this way in a certain night session, you have essentially legalized, constitutionally legislating that several parties are coming to Parliament. We currently have eight of them in our House. Now we would like to take away their opportunity through the Rules of Procedure to co-decision on parliamentary decisions. For if the College discusses everything in the future, and on the basis of the weighted votes, then I, as I have already said many times, will repeat once again that there will be only two decisions in place of us parliamentarians, that is Mr Ptrč and Mr Anderlič, if they will, of course, remain the leaders of the groups of Members. I also do not understand that the President of Parliament, Mr Pahor, does not see that this will significantly reduce his function. After all, he will have to submit to the presidents of two parliamentary groups and agree to their decisions. This seems unacceptable to us in the opposition, and therefore certainly this article, which is key in this Rules of Procedure, will not and cannot be supported. I am very pleased that some members of the coalition party SLS + SKD have also seen that this is the case. Otherwise, Mr Brenčič said he would agree if the College meetings were public. I say that even the public would not be much help, because we still do not have a plural media space in Slovenia. I would like to remind you how strongly you fought to introduce a fund to help our media space, I would say to balance citizens and citizens of Slovenia more evenly and more objectively to inform about what is happening in Parliament. Some things get a little too much, and our public doesn't actually know them and doesn't know about them. So it would be acceptable what you say about the public if, after all, we decided once and for all and started to broadcast national television sessions, as they do in some countries, even in those countries that are not yet so close to the European Union. [[for example, I can give you our neighbouring country of Croatia.]] . So if the public were to be informed and monitor Parliament's work in this way, then we would probably agree in the opposition to the closure of the meetings of the College of State and would say that this is the way this matter is going to be done, since the public will be able to become aware of it. So, as it looks today, and as in Slovenia, more or less elections are being held and made through the media, of course, we cannot agree to such decisions. Once again, if you do put this in the rules of procedure, then this will be achieved by the majority of them, and it certainly cannot be in your favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u16	It is somehow incomprehensible, or even paradoxical, that in this Chamber and here after ten years of this democracy, it defends something that is useless in many parts and is far from what Mr Peterle teaches us here many times when he speaks and quotes the reports of the European Union, when he monitors the adaptation of the Slovenian acquis to Europe and where he is visible or, I would say, at the beginning of all reports always and in every report, there is a recommendation that we adapt the legislative procedure to the countries of the European Union and do so also in this area in a comparable, efficient and timely manner, so that we can go to Parliament in a comparable way as in other countries. And now it's happening exactly the opposite here. Something that is viable and in accordance with the procedures laid down in this Rules of Procedure cannot be done in a comparable manner. This, of course, may be legitimate, there is no problem. I am even more saddened by the mention here of Potrč, Anderlič, Pahor and so on, as if the Rules of Procedure were written for one term, as if it were written for one coalition - even in one term it is not always the same coalition. We saw that before the bad year. So you can't understand this kind of performance here. Mr. Brenčič, decisions will not be kept secret. They're not going to be secret college decisions. I don't mind personally, I don't mind if the college meetings were public. This, however, to be noted here, is not the truth but only in the third reading we have brought into the rules of procedure of the colleges. College arrangements are in the current Rules of Procedure if you wish. In the current Rules of Procedure, the rules of procedure in force for 9 years. Of course, this role of the college is different, placed primarily in the function of resolving all those problems that we face at the assembly, namely poor planning, unforeseen meeting times and so on. These are things that are clearly seen. And if you look at it, it hasn't been done so far, gentlemen. And defend this rules of procedure that it is. In order for the College to meet earlier, it is necessary to consult the parliamentary groups and, of course, to have a basis for the College to agree on something. Unless agreed, procedures are envisaged for something else. I must say that we do not have eight parties in this House, as you said, but we do not have eight parties. Given that you are now dealing with the counting of Members on this side, I tell you that I do not have eight parties in this House at the moment. Because you must've made a lapisus or made a mistake. And I don't have eight clients, Mr Cukjat, we don't have them. [[...]] We don't have them. Yes, of course, it is necessary to be precise and to talk about the things that are discussed at each point of the agenda. And of course, when it comes to parliamentary groups, it is quite clear that this is a category which is a constitutional element of this national assembly. You know that the representatives we have been elected on the lists of the same names must first join the parliamentary groups, be informed in an organised manner, and on this basis the whole discussion on the working bodies, on the President, on the Vice-Presidents, on the definitively constituted election of the Secretary-General and so on. Only then, because parliamentary groups are a constitutional element. And then, of course, there is no other explanation, or I do not understand otherwise, than if you defend yourself or refuse a college as some form of agreement, prior, on organisational issues, that the assembly will turn into a college and that we are all discussing everything every moment. Including how long the meeting will take, how long the agenda points will be, what the agenda will be, then, of course, it can take a substantial longer time than it is now. But that's not what I'm for.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. To implement Mr Anderlic, they wish to replicate in the following order: Mr Vizjak, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Brenčič, Mr Sok and Mr Rokavec. Two more replicas, Mr. Petan, including a replica? Mr. Bernick, the replica? It's a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I don't know if I was misunderstood. I also understood my fellow Members in this respect that we are not here defending the existing rules of procedure. We agree that some things need to be changed in terms of an effective part of this national assembly and better organised, in particular in that the points will be predictable, when it will be better for Members to prepare themselves, and not least that the presence of the government here will also be ensured, which we have not witnessed. So I can't agree with this thesis that we're defending the existing ones. That's not true! We are in favour of changes, we are in favour of such changes that will make this National Assembly more efficient in its work and even more predictable in terms of the work itself. That is why we also agree with certain solutions to some extent. Unfortunately, we are now in front of a point or an amendment, where we have also tried to point out with certain arguments the substantive shortcomings of this particular amendment. This does not mean that we are defending the existing rules of procedure. I believe that in this context, as Mr Anderlič has discussed that the college is just the body where we agree - no one is opposed to negotiating and agreeing on this work at the college. However, we are opposed to deciding on very important substantive matters here, and, of course, it can also be completely prevented by voting on the weaker ones. We're against it, against nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The implementation of Mr Anderlich must, of course, be answered. In fact, because he has stated in his implementation some things that absolutely do not hold - so far he thinks that there is some truth that we have eight customers, that later - and his initial statement that it is paradoxical to defend itself survive. We're not defending this, like I said. We have always expressed our readiness to agree in a consensual manner on how to improve the rules of procedure. However, in the situation where such things are proposed, when the word is taken to the opposition, we need to be clear and strongly convinced and know this, and then we will also make this decision. For also in court, Mr Anderlich, it is so that the judge in question decides for the benefit of the weaker. And here it is - between the two bad options we will obviously have to overcome everything because of your stubbornness and because of your ambitions, decide on behalf of everyone, we will have to decide to maintain what is so far, because this is better for democracy in Slovenia at this point than what you are proposing in such a form. You also say the mention of Pahor, Mr. Pahor [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Yeah, well, everybody sees that. [[...]] But everybody sees what's behind this - the control of Mr Pahor. I am in favour of having the President of the National Assembly, to be President with all powers, in accordance with the European Parliamentary tradition. Of course, this is about you not admitting it to him. You have even expressed this in the evening a few months ago, that the president of the National Assembly absolutely has no sense of organization, that it is only a protocol -- remember, in the Saturday diary you wrote for the evening, you wrote this. And now you want to formalize this so that the President of the National Assembly will be able to perform here only the function that he has as a student in honor of being a model of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u21	Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u22	Yes, I'm sorry! Sorry, that's right. I'm in favour of having the president of the National Assembly. However, if this is to be voted, I wonder whether it is necessary for us to still have the office of President of the National Assembly, because the role of President of the National Assembly will be carried out by the Head of the Parliament, Mr Anderlič, with the new Rules of Procedure, as long as it remains so. And that's where I see it in there. The question - I think there are some considerations that this is also dangerous to liberal democracy - is already present because I see that there was no constitutional change on TV yesterday, Mr. Anderlich, but they sent someone else to make [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u23	Mr. Jerovšek, this is a polemization. Please limit yourself to the explanation in the context of the replica and the possibilities for the replica you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u24	Madam Vice-President, I don't know what you have against me that I can't argue with what's obvious, what's normal and visible to every politically-written person, and people are asking me what's going on with this, and I can't explain this to a speaker at this important point.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u25	I apologize, Mr Jerovšek, for sure your debate on who was on TV yesterday is not a matter of replication of Mr Anderlich's performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u26	How politically important this is in this debate today, in the context of this!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u27	It may be politically important, but it is not in the context of a replica to which you are entitled in the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u28	And then, yes, I ask that you don't interrupt me the second time that I'm properly debated, because - because I know it's a habit, too, if you have to stop someone from stopping them. [[...]] I'm also sure you had an order not to give a word to Mr. Puksic in the morning. [[...]] [[Deals from the bench.]] Secondly, we heard something new in Mr Anderlich's debate that we do not have eight parliamentary parties. I went to count again, and we have eight. Let him say which party no longer acts as a party. I believe that this is DeSUS, because Mr Delak is sick and he had to come here today, twice already.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Your replica time is up. Thank you very much. Just for an explanation. Take a magnetogram and you will see how the session and my speech have been concluded - that we will continue with the debate, not with Mr Jerovska's replica. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Somehow I can't agree or accept the obvious to defend something that's alive. In my previous mandate, I have been fully responsible for supporting amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which have unfortunately not been voted on. Because I wanted to introduce some corrections into the work of the National Assembly, which will give more quality work, more dynamic work and a better result. But in this way, when we introduce a college as a decision-making body that I think is a key change for Anderlich, who is not here now, given how he defends it, we do not introduce something that is new, which has survived and needs to be changed. His stubbornness, which is now present at the college as an advisory body, is indeed difficult to enforce because it is consultative. Of course, according to the new one, when he has so many votes, he will be able to achieve much more. But there are procedural matters and, I would say, the subject of decision-making in college is also the content that must now be decided by each vote of 34 Members. That's right, Mr. Anderlich. In Western parliaments where you say we have not read one of them, the President of the National Assembly or Parliament has a status, the autonomy is important. We take it from him with this purpose, as the college or college term has now specified. I wouldn't feel so good as president of the National Assembly. He is responsible for determining these procedural matters by his autonomy. But I do know that there is now a constant rhompom at the college when I replace my colleague Sponik. But let's leave it, Mr. Anderlich. With that we're not some, I'd say, cretins on the spot and defenders of some kind of survival. No, no, no. No, no, no. The messenger is for me an individual. And despite the fact that the things that the college decides about are of a different nature than strictly substantive, and have long-term consequences - let's just take a quick procedure. Quick procedure means a law written for this because it is an extraordinary need of the State or a different situation. This will be decided by, say, someone on behalf of 30 Members. I somehow do not assume that the president of my Group will, on my behalf, decide at some point in college. I was present, and I know what the opposite themes are, which are born and cannot be consulted - that he will decide on some content on my behalf. There's a content here that I don't agree with. For this reason, I believe that it is somewhat questionable to decide on the constitutionality of a Member in this regard, and therefore do not accept that I am a survivor's advocate. I'm about to move on, I'm about to make the working bodies, the parent and the different take over the greater weight and so on. I do not accept this term nor do I accept this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, Mr Rokavec, Mr Petan and Mr Kelemina also have replicas to implement Mr Anderlic. Then Mr Anderlich to implement Mr Brenčič. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you. I'm giving up the replica. I don't think we can add anything to that. We've already told each other everything. I suggest we go to the vote as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your reasonable suggestion, Mr. Sok. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I am giving the replica to Mr Anderlich, in particular in that he said in a way that those who disagree with this amendment, that we are against the regulation of this Rules of Procedure in the sense of rationalising the work of the National Assembly and bringing the work of this Parliament closer to today's parliaments or to developed democracies. I think it must first be found that the Slovenian Parliament is 11 years old as a multilateral system and that in some ways it is necessary to take a certain time and procedure to introduce some solutions that have been a tradition in developed democracies for 50 years. I think that "ad hoc" solutions and the transfer overnight of certain solutions are probably not the best travels if we want to take solutions in such a way that they will be to the satisfaction of the widest possible circle of Members, in particular those we co-decision in the national assembly. Second. It is also likely that the lack of confidence in this Article 23 proposal is a multiple breach of the rules of procedure or a lack of confidence in the proposed solution, which is now proposed. And if we are very specific, in the second reading, when the possibility of the college being closed to the public was already rejected, the three parliamentary groups in the 100th article, of course with the opportunity which was then, because there was a small quorum of opposition, inserted this provision in the 100th article, so that the college would be closed to the public. I would reiterate the issue of the college's dispute with article 82 of the Constitution and its competence. Article 82 of the Constitution states that the Member is not bound by any instructions. For example, the college will decide on the urgent procedure of the law, the reduced procedure, the preliminary treatment and the like. So someone's gonna make a decision for me. I think it is questionable if we are looking at an explicit constitution to violate the Members' basic function of co-decision. And one of the basic functions is by which procedure the law will be adopted. So I would suggest that he reconsider. I think if such an amendment is adopted, he will probably have an epilogue in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. Mr. Anderlich was talking about the paradox, but what's going on here. I say this myself: the biggest paradox is that the President of the National Assembly is fully entitled to set up a college in place of him. Tell me where this speech is about the vote of the president of the National Assembly in college. The President of the National Assembly has no vote, he cannot vote. That's unacceptable! The President of the National Assembly must have a decisive vote. And it's a paradox - that the president doesn't have a vote in the decision to go to college. And such conditions, when the President of the National Assembly is actually taking on the fundamental role of decision-making in a composite body, are the greatest paradox that can happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. You're giving up the replica. We continue the debate. Mr Tsukati, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Ptrč, is next. Mr. Jerovšek, do you give up? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u38	Just one serious question. If a college has such powers to decide instead of a national assembly, then the head of the parliamentary group shall have the weight of his votes only if he brings the signatures of all his Members to a certain question. If he doesn't bring it, it's really legal for me. If there is no agreement in such a college, the debate will begin. The debate is intended, however, to reveal the arguments and then find an appropriate solution. And this is part of the National Assembly. I believe that this is a fundamental principle and Members of liberal democracy I am asking whether you will give the "bianca" opinion that someone on your behalf will decide on important issues. I think it's irresponsible for the electorate, if not your personal conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. For me, the article we are now talking about is not as fateful and essential as you want to show it, but you can also show it this way. I'd just like to say the following for a minute. It would be good to compare the situation with today's. And if you compare solutions with today's situation, then you will see that, at least with regard to individual parliamentary groups, especially the opposition, it is not really essential or any difference. This is because, at the end of the debate, a decision has been taken so far, which the President, not at the College meeting, but later, has been made mainly on the agenda. And that was all that was decided otherwise. Today, when we talk about the content of this article, the decision at this point is only such that it is actually written down what has been true in practice so far. You know who's been to college many times, you know what's really been going on. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have expressed their opinions there. In the end, a decision was taken mainly for which the majority of Members were not the majority of three, four, five, six representatives of the colleges that spoke. It's just written down now, and I'd say we're working too hard on that. Secondly, regarding the constitutional role and the Members. I agree that this is a question and I have my answer to it, which does not need to be correct. In the end, the Constitutional Court will tell him. It is a work organisation, not a decision on substantive issues. And I don't know about the organization of work, I really don't know any kind of action where everyone can make all the decisions. She's not here. It is always necessary to delegate certain powers for the organisation of work to be appointed. And here it's all about organization of work. If you are saying that there are important substantive issues, particularly the issue of procedures, I agree with you. As far as the question of procedures is concerned, you know that if a fifth after a new amendment, proposed by the four parliamentary groups of Members, is proposed, then it is decided by everyone or by all Members and Members of the national assembly. At that time, the opinion put forward by the Head of the Group to the College is no longer valid. And in this respect, this is indeed an organisational issue in particular. These issues are the main issues to be decided. So, in my opinion, it is true that there is a need to make a transparent work, that the powers are clear and Members' decision-making rights are not taken through this. It's just that this is really my strong belief. Since all the other questions, apart from these two, about how to make decisions, are more questions about the truly pure organisation of work, which has also been a conflict so far, and I understand in my own way that whoever has not participated many times and wants to be honest in college sees not how many things I would, believe me, honestly, allow everyone that he is a member of the college, especially under new conditions. Especially under new conditions. Because in the end it's really gonna be up to you. Because now you've given your opinion, and you've gone to the office, and you've been waiting for the meeting to take place. And basically, you knew in advance what it would say, but sometimes there was a surprise. I say, now you're gonna have to sit there and talk about every point: go or go. And make the most of the decision if anyone asks. For any proposal where it is desirable to set a limit, you will have to discuss it first, and if there is no agreement, then vote again. If anyone thinks that "war" is gonna be a really nice job, I'd be happy to give it to him. I'm not sure it'll always be productive, I'm not sure, and I'm not saying it for the first time today. However, I hope that after a few months, we will find out and agree on what it is that can become productive, because I think it can become if we talk in a smart way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u42	Just for a little while. Unfortunately, I cannot agree that this is just a matter of organisation of work and that the rules of procedure are viable. Today we're talking about the rules of procedure, tomorrow we're going to say that the constitution is alive. It seems to me that the congregation spirit is returning here, and we will live in it. Then we will see in a few months how many assurances that have just been made have been fulfilled. But I can say that this is the complete absence of pluralism in our national council. And I'm done with it, and I'm giving up on the rest of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I have agreed to discuss this article or this amendment. Personally, I believe that some other rules of procedure are far more important for our work than this. This is particularly the case for a completely different concept of the work of Members, given the responsibility of working bodies. If you have carefully considered the proposed changes, then it will be clear that we will have to be very well prepared for working-body meetings. And that will completely change our logistics. I hope we're aware of that. And that the current great weight of this item of the agenda is, however, understandable in particular because the college is becoming the body that is also the decision-maker. First of all, I would like to say that I would like to remind my respectable colleagues that the idea of getting a college of different powers is not new. A group of experts has already proposed and this has been summarised by the group that has been preparing amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the previous mandate. It was written, for example, the indent which is fully summarised and which follows this amendment and reads: "At the time of the meeting of the national assembly and the time of the consideration of individual agenda items and the limitation of the duration of the debates of Members and other participants in the meeting or groups sent." This indent and this provision were from the very beginning in the concept of amending the Rules of Procedure. It is said that this is not a novelty that would be the result of the current decision. Another time. But the idea of a closed college meeting is new. I don't support her. I do not support it, in my view it is wrong and is completely unnecessary too much political energy directed towards this Article. Unfortunately, I was not successful here to convince my respected colleagues, Anderlich, Potts and Kebrich that we would withdraw this. That move we made wasn't wise. I hope that we will have the power to support the opposition's amendment in the 100th article, so that the College's meetings will be public. Why am I saying this? Because there's obviously not enough trust between us. It is only that, in accordance with the procedure, it will be decided on the duration of the meetings of the national assembly and on the timing of each agenda item and on the duration of the discussions of Members and other participants of the meetings or of the groups of Members. If we don't reach an agreement, it's up to us to make a decision. However, the decision of the College will be taken if a proposal is supported by the leaders of the parliamentary groups with a total number of members who oppose it. This is a key provision. This is a question of parliamentary culture. It's actually a fair play to go. An agreement must be reached on how we can negotiate when the interpretation is made, how much time the Group of Members will require for the debate. If the parliamentary group that filed the interpolation requires three days, whether or not the majority will accept it. It's a topic we haven't talked about, it's mistrust. If the meeting of the College is public, the commitment will be greater. Dear colleagues from the coalition, I propose that we therefore accept the amendment that the College's meetings are open to the public. That would be a wise decision. The Rules of Procedure will not lose anything, but at the same time we will achieve that this sensitive issue, which is obviously very important, will be resolved in a different way. I would like to tell you explicitly that I was myself active in the proposal and that my colleagues in the coalition supported me that, in the first sentence, we wrote: "At the College meetings, the President of the National Assembly, on the basis of previous consultations with the parliamentary groups, with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, also agreed on this" - said colleague Anderlič. Therefore, a preliminary consultation will be necessary first. This is said to be the case, however, that the role of the President of the National Assembly is indicated here, and the President of the National Assembly will not be able to go beyond the positions to be forwarded by the parliamentary groups. One amendment is also set out in this amendment, so that one-fifth of the Members, i.e. 18, may require the National Assembly to decide on rapid or shorter procedures if it does not agree with the College's decision. It's not much, but it's something. So this change was included. So, I suggest I support this amendment myself, I sign it, I stand behind it. [[...]] But I was always disappointed when I failed to convince my colleagues that the meetings of the college would be public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Since I think we have exhausted the debate on the two amendments to Article 23, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I, as well as the other Members of the Young Slovenia Party, this amendment, will not support this proposal. The provisions of the new Article 23 seem too restrictive, in some ways too restrictive and undemocratic for the 90-member Parliament. We will be taught matters such as limiting the duration of the debate, the conclusion of the college, which is already ensured by the presence of two members, if they are representatives of the LDS and the United List. The decision of the College shall be taken if a proposal is supported by the Heads of the Group of Members, with a total of more members than those who oppose it. Or in other words. The Head of the LDS Group shall have 34 votes, Head of the SMS 4 Group of Members. I think that this urgency of amending the Rules of Procedure forgets even the Constitution, since it is clearly stated in Article 82 of the Constitution that Members are representatives of all people and are not bound by any instructions. So each Member is a representative of all the people. The vote of each Member shall be equivalent, whether it be a decision at a plenary session of the State Assembly or a decision at meetings of the working body or a decision at college meetings, if it is given the role of a decision-making body. If I say otherwise. If the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth has four votes, he shall be bound to the instructions of the four Members who entrusted him with the votes. This is "beat" with Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly states: "The Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions." Members of the Youth Party will not be supported by this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this amendment. If I voted in favour of such a revision of the Rules of Procedure, I would join those who wish to make a contradiction out of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 53 votes against 29. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the amendment under order number two has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to the 25th Article, of which two members are proposed, namely the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. The parent working body of the amendment does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 27. Both proposers are members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 13. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 33. The amendment is proposed under order number one for the New Slovenia Group and for the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and for the four parliamentary groups for the positions. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment under one. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. It's 67 votes against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment Procedural proposal, Mr Pucko. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I suggest you check out how many of us are actually present in the hall. In the back row, I see that at least two of them are present or have the appropriate Beauty Please count how many of us are actually in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u51	Mr. Pucko, I'm sorry. The new way of conducting the vote, by requiring us to press one of the keys, whether the cards are filed or not, ensures that we check whether the National Assembly is concluded while deciding. The cards themselves in a new way do not mean and cannot affect the validity of our decision-making. We are therefore moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to the 40th Article, of which there are four parliamentary groups of positions. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. With regard to the amendment signed by the four leaders of the parliamentary groups, I would not, before I began to discuss Koleg Anderlič, if you find it funny, in such an important substantive article as Article 40, which speaks of the supervision of intelligence services. [[...]] I am interested in the opinion of the secretariat on the amendment tabled by the four representatives of the Group. That's the first question. In view of the fact that the original article states "Security Intelligence Services", and the amendment states "Intelligence and Security Services", I am interested in which services belong to security services and whether there is also a criminal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u54	In my debate, I ask for the opinion of the secretariat on the amendment tabled by the four leaders of the Group. I would like the secretariat's opinion on this amendment. Is it in accordance with all the rules and will it be necessary to amend any normative activity or legislation governing other services on the basis of such an article or amendment as we have proposed in the future? This is where I think about the law about the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I wasn't careful enough. Would you like to explain? Here you go. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u56	In the light of the question raised by the Secretariat, I can explain the following. We have also been specifically warned by the secretariat at the home work body that it is necessary to update the law on police very quickly in order to maintain or maintain the Ministry of the Interior’s security service under this Article. For in this sector we have adopted a decision by the Constitutional Court, which has annulled the relevant part of the earlier ruling, which has been repeated in this text in the sense of a one-year deferral period. In such a way that this solution will have to be supported by an appropriate addition to the police law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to ask - to make my decision more easily - once again the secretariat. Article 40, as it is, mentions the government's security intelligence services, which means we're dealing with the Owl. Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defense, which means we're dealing with Ovs. In the current dictatorship, criminal police have been released, and we should also control it in the part where we use special methods and means. So if we do not accept the amendment to Article 40 as proposed now, it means that the Rules of Procedure take away part of the activity that we have been carrying out so far. That is why I think, Mrs Bitenchev, if you are to answer that the amendment to Article 40 is broader than the current 40th sentence adopted by the second reading amendment. This means that if we adopt these things and if the law on police is also being upgraded by what is in the Rules of Procedure, it means that if we adopt such an amendment, we have a broader field of action than what is now in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I can say the following with one sentence. Certainly, the 40th Article, as proposed in the amendment, is much more accurate. The diction used in the first indent of the basic text is not accurate and would lead to guesses as to what it involves.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss any more - as I find - we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 40. We're voting! There are 74 Members and Members present. 65 votes against 2. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On page 5 of the review there is also an amendment to Article 45, which we will not vote on because it is irrelevant because it relates to Article 47 and Article 45, which was not amended in the second reading. We are therefore moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to the 50th Article, of which there are four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 75 Members and Members present. 58 votes against 15. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 64. The amendments under number 1 shall be proposed to the two members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, and the amendment under order number 2 shall be submitted to the four members of the Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting! There are 73 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! There are 75 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 67. The proposers of the amendment under number 1 shall be four parliamentary groups of positions and under order number 2 of the Rules of Procedure Commission. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting! 71 Members and Members are present. 50 votes to 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number two. We're voting! [[Allow us, Mr Jerovšek, to make our decision to the end.]] There are 64 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 11. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. Here you are, Mr Jerovšek, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u62	Madam President, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, the amendment to Article 67 is inconsistent and should not be voted on at all. The College of the National Assembly of such powers, as set out here - we have previously accepted - does not. You don't have a college article like that. I think it's a matter of extreme inconsistency. I'm surprised the secretariat didn't warn you about that. I think we should point out in this article that it is not actually possible to make it irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I think Mrs. Bitenc will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u64	At the end of the day, we give the opinion on consistency. As in any procedure, the process of adopting this act may also be discussed, dealt with and adopted by the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I think you've got an explanation. We're not going to discuss the same thing again. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 69, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! 76 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 71. Both proposers are members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting! There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! There are 77 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 82, whose proposer is four parliamentary groups of positions. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 80 Members and Members present. 63 votes to 14. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 100. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. The amendment under order number 2 is the amendment of the four coalition groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As I have discussed before, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the amendment under point 1 to delete the provision of Article 100, which was adopted in the second reading, that the College be closed to the public. What am I basing that on? Above all, by obtaining or receiving a college of different powers, the public of his meetings would undoubtedly be important. In view of the procedure itself, I can expect that, at the conclusion of the vote, it will be concluded that the solutions to the Rules of Procedure are not consistent and that an instrument as is known for these cases will need to be used. Before taking a decision on this Article, I would ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, for a 30-minute leave from decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. If I understood correctly, a ten-minute break? Thirty, I'm sorry. Okay, thank you very much. Let us therefore discuss the two amendments to Article 100. Then I will interrupt and allow the Slovenian People's Party's Group to consult for half an hour before the decision is taken. Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I will support the first amendment because it is completely logical and necessary. If the current dictatorship, which had been brought into second reading through the back door when the attention of the National Assembly had fallen, although the same amendment had previously fallen under Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, this would be contrary to parliamentary tradition. However, if such an article were to be made public, a new amendment should be added in order for the decisions of the College at secret meetings to be published in the Official Journal. It's a perfect thing. However, I would like to draw attention to the second amendment to this Article. I believe that it is irrelevant and nonconsistent in view of the fact that the amendment has fallen to Article 23. I am already reminding you of the trap, which, I think, is in the air, on the basis of such interpretation, the secretariat will come to a harmonisation amendment and will bring the college and all its powers back through the back door, even though this matter has already fallen to two national councils. In the same way as this 100th article, this talk of closed, secret, conspiracy sessions came through another reading. For this reason, I also expect the President of the National Assembly, who has been given back the powers conferred upon him within the coalition, to respond personally and to warn that this lecture on the College of President should not be drawn through all the amendments in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I support that meetings of the College with such powers as it has are closed to the public. Public imprisonment is essential mainly because the college will be negotiating. Incarceration for the public is not something that would imply that something secret, something confidential, is happening, in terms of dealing with documents and matters of a confidential nature. This simply means that things will be quite peaceful there. When it comes to negotiations, we have practice; every time, for example, a national assembly is set up and it is necessary to appoint heads of labour and various functions and so on. These are long-term negotiations and can only take place under certain conditions where this can happen. You can't do that in front of the public. Mr Podobnik knows this because he himself conducted countless such meetings in the previous term, at the beginning of the previous term, because we also met in his office and tried to resolve these knots. I would add the following in this regard. I'm a journalist by profession. The intrusion of such a number of journalists and cameramen and thus further hampers the normal work of Parliament, deconcentrates Members, has repeatedly led them to prefer demagogies and performances more than the content of the debates. He's just saying it. I don't advocate closing public meetings if that's not necessary. However, I am taking advantage of this opportunity to consider creating such working conditions on working bodies that will allow for the best quality work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please! It's a replica. If I'm not mistaken, so is Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my esteemed colleague Battelli. It's just a misunderstanding. The negotiations will take place earlier. The negotiations in the House of Presidents of the National Assembly are earlier. The meeting of the College is public. The first paragraph is clear. At the College's meetings, the President of the National Assembly, based on previous consultations, will negotiate here, will support here, this must be a college. No! No! I'm sorry, but in a few minutes, someone will come to me with a proposal to sign a co-ordination amendment with sobriety in my head so that we can work out a solution together. If we agreed in advance that the College's meetings were open to the public, it would be accepted, but that's not my problem. I am sure that we have stopped so needlessly in the open or closed session of the College. It was a completely wrong decision. I hope that we will find ways to proceed with the adoption of the Rules of Procedure and that we will also solve this problem. So, about what Comrade Battelli said and this is a key element of the agreement on the work of the National Assembly, all of this is going to happen. It will happen in accordance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure, but not at college meetings, but a few days earlier. That's how I understood this provision. But you can do it wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. There won't be any special negotiations with a colleague. Not because Comrade Podobnik said so, but because of the fact that new facts are happening in college. If the purpose of this college were to negotiate and consult, then it would not be by weighting the votes or by sharing the decisions. If each member of the College, a representative of the parliamentary group had one vote, then negotiations would be held. Thus, it is very clear and vividly demonstrated why this college must be secret. There will be no negotiations because decision-making will be by the power of the weighted votes. Look, since we know what we are Members of this call. Those accompanying the current College can determine for themselves that the integrity of the current members of the College with the new Rules of Procedure will not change significantly because it is human.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u76	Respectable Slovenians! I'm telling those of you who like to tell how it is in Europe. List those parliaments in European countries that have consultative colleges of the President of Parliament in front of the cameras. I don't know anyone myself. That's it. I know - I'd say, so to speak, well, I don't say from what it's going to take too long, in principle or as a rule, the sessions of the working bodies are closed, precisely because of the things we've dealt with before. But with us, the world is also wrong on this subject. I'd think they'd be closed in principle, but they could open up if they wanted to. Otherwise, I think that Member Battelli has made some real arguments in this regard. There's something else I'd like to say on the subject of privileges. This is an additional photo term for those couples - sorry - almonds, I'll tell you who will collide there. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u78	I have to say, I'm having a really hard time working here because I'm trying to get some of this stuff together. But what we are currently discussing is the amendment of New Slovenia and the SDS. The amendment that we are currently discussing. The second amendment has not been tabled in paragraph 100, et cetera. He's another one, but he's doing something else. I really thought we had this sorted out on the Rules of Procedure committee. I thank Mr Peterlet for telling us how European he is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli has the replica and then Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I repeat in terms of clarification to Mr Brenčič. In fact, being closed to the public does not mean secrecy. But that's a big difference. Anyone who attends meetings that are closed to the public when the session is over and out can tell the public what he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I want to replicate and highlight the following. The opponents of this amendment said only the first half. This first half is really a closed-door negotiation. Where does it say, or where would it say that these negotiations will be successful and will lead to a certain consensus, which would then be no longer a problem? I suppose and I think it is justified that there will also be certain differences in the college that we will be clearing up. I'm stressing what the speakers have already said. There, many times, it is the pure population, the prestige of being exposed in front of the camera, in front of the photographer, in front of the press, to what he objected to or what he represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u84	I have a brief replica of Mr. Kebrich. Your Honor, Comrade Kebrich! During this term of office, I took up time several times and listened to college meetings in my office. I don't know if you took it. If, at a college meeting, one of the leaders of the parliamentary groups tells the President of the National Assembly, regardless of which party the President of the National Assembly is coming from, let him step in front of the mirror and use other similar terms, respected Kebrič - I have the feeling that this is primarily another matter. If we close the public college meetings, colleague Brenčič is absolutely right - there will be no negotiations, everything will be decided there. There will be only voting or deciding with Ponders what will happen. I don't know why we'd hide what's going on at college meetings. There's nothing to hide. In front of who? But we're not the public ourselves? If we close the public college, we shut ourselves down to listen to what our leaders of the parliamentary groups are talking about at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. Tell me, will you, as a member of Parliament or your fellow Member, hear what the head of the delegation is talking about in college? Is the position of the leader of the parliamentary group an entire parliamentary group or is he more expressive of his own personal position? There's been a lot of disagreements. If we close here, honourable Members, we will be even less familiar and informed, not only by the Slovenian public, but also by the Members themselves. We're closing our doors to hear what's going on at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I did not intend to advertise, but Mr Peterlet's debate so cheered me up that I said I had to take a call. In the second reading, I proposed an amendment to close working-body meetings, as is the case with all European Parliaments or almost all European Parliaments. At the time, this amendment of mine was somehow rejected with disgust. There's been a lot of talk here about how we want to lock ourselves up in front of the public, and I don't know what else. However, Mr Peterlet's debate put these things in the right place. I'm less sad that we don't have these things - unfortunately - already settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you. I will briefly repeat what I have already said in this House regarding the closure or openness of the meeting. So it is clear to us how things are regulated in the European Parliaments. However, once again, in European countries with developed parliamentary democracy, some other matters are also different. Here I would like to redefine once again that our Parliament does not have the same opportunity in its debates as parliaments in Western European countries that parliamentary meetings are transmitted to the public via national television. If the rules of procedure were to be passed on to Parliament's meetings, then we agree and we can close - if you want - for the public also meetings working bodies, because in Parliament it is possible to make public the position of a particular political group. However, as far as this is not the case in Slovenia - and here again I would like to remind you how strongly you fought that in Slovenia you would, however, devote a little more money to the pluralisation of the media and to a more balanced media space. So, I'm afraid - the president will interrupt me if I say - that Slovenia was in the same situation in 1990 as Germany in 1945. They had a period under the Fascist regime and we had a period under the Communist regime. We were in the same situation. Democracy needed to be developed. But these processes with us in Slovenia, unfortunately, do not work that way. I'm just going to remind you of something. After 1945, Germany devoted a great deal of money to the development of democracy. They have given and still support various foundations that strengthen, everyone knows them, I don't need to list them. For example, the most famous Conrad Andenauer Stiftung and so on. What have we done in this direction? Nothing. When we have such a democracy as Western European countries, where we would like to go and where we also see our opportunity, we will probably be able to make an easy decision to shut down working bodies for the public. A democratic performance and a democratic principle will be the guarantee of the right decisions. I can see that I've had a lot of replicas in my debate, but I'm fine. I have to tell you this. Now I have a chance because that's what the business regulations set out. When you adopt a new rules of procedure, if you succeed, of course you will not even be allowed to speak. By closing the public college in such a situation. I can't agree with that. I do not agree with fellow Member Peterlet here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Three replicas in the next order. First Mr Jakič, then Mr Kremjar and Mr Battelli. Mr. Jakich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I have to say, I don't even enjoy this discussion that much. In fact, the New Slovenia Parliamentary Club would like to be brought into line. In this text, I have read that this is the position of the entire Group of Members. I completely agree with what my colleague Peterle said. You will not find a college meeting open to the public in the European Parliament. Even in some European parliaments, working bodies are closed to the public, although there is no direct transmission. Let me tell you the experience of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, some of you know it. There, all meetings, except for the plenary session, are closed to the public for a simple reason that people can agree and come to a conclusion in peace nonetheless. In Europe, too, it has been found that most of the performances in front of the cameras serve a personal promotion rather than a goal to find a better solution. There are also no cameras and direct transmissions in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, only internet transmission, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me tell you that plenary meetings are also limited to the rapporteur. The rapporteur has seven minutes. Each Member or Member shall hold a four-minute debate. When the flag falls, the list of debaters in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shall be concluded. All discussers can broadcast their written debates and are considered an integral part of the magnetogram. I wanted to present this to Mr Sok because the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is one of those institutions - as the Council of Europe itself - that we say are concerned and is the Ombudsman of human rights in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, then Mr. Battelli, then Mr. Peterle. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Sok. I'm a little sensitive when we're talking about media, pluralisation, media pluralism and correctness. First of all, this! If - Mr Sok - it was not until 1990 that you discovered radio, television and newspapers, of course this could be a personal problem. They have been working before - and, of course, according to my assessment - doing quite well - at least the last period before that, even after 1990. So - I'm not going to discuss open and closed sessions, but only the part that concerns the media - we can't do so unilaterally. Because there's no idea like you've been trying to get her, we can't get everything in these media to a level they don't deserve. That's not true. In this Slovenia we have many good media, many good journalists. But if, as in all other professions, someone is not satisfied with the matter, it is also his right to do so. Please, don't generalize, don't start a journalistic history in 1990, and don't think that there's only one truth about the media. That this truth is just the same as I think it is or you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much! In fact, Mr Sok has rightly established a link between this amendment and the direct transfer of our meetings and debates on television, radio and so on. That seems to me excused in this part. The second part of his debate does not fall under the amendment under consideration. There's something you need to say. There is no country called developed democracy that, by law, would be compulsive to anyone under the obligation to transmit Parliament's meetings and its working bodies on television or radio. There's no such thing as developed democracy. The offices choose whether or not to do this. The only way to solve this problem would be if we, as a parliament, had our own television to broadcast it. It's the only way. How thoughtful is that, but it's another question. Anyway, our sessions are on the Internet. We know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you. This is now a completely different game than the subject of content. It has now become interesting that Peterle has a slightly different opinion from his own parliamentary group. I won't - I'll say - I won't enjoy your enjoyment, even though it's nice to hear if the LDS adores you. Look! I went to college meetings in other functions. I also attended meetings of my mother's work, where there was no camera, no journalist. But colleges were a world event. 2:00 p.m., 6:00 p.m. Three cameras, seven reporters. Wrong world, I'll say it again. I also speak from this experience. The amendment of our Group of Members would be supported if the College became a small CK to decide. However, since the amendment's fall to article 23 remains a consultative body, I do not see the need for half of Slovenia to be consulted by the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much! I'd like to replicate to my fellow Kremjar, because I hope that he's been harboring insults at the expense of Mr Sok, that he didn't want to do what he said when he said it wasn't enough to discover the media in 1990. I think that, after Mr Sok's performances, it is more than obvious that he has followed the media forever and that he is very current. In my opinion, it is wrong to read something like this, even by an ex-journalist who might have been pleased that he probably ever read it. In many other Members, I note that they may have discovered the media later or have not discovered them at all. I mean, it's wrong for Mr. Sok to read something like that. On the other hand, you got into a contradiction when you talked about the media after 1990. With this, you implicitly admitted that they were not plural. With this you have admitted that the media today are not plural, plural enough. I agree with this implicit conclusion of yours, but I don't blame the press in general. I am convinced that the vast majority of journalists are correct and want to report as authentic as possible. It happens that some people don't actually report in an authentic way. If a journalist wrote to me from the previous debate that I had an opening act, even though I was the last to be reported for the debate - I know that he wrote this tendentiously because he knows very well what he wrote. That's what's going on. These are other things. But thank you again, I say you've found that the media after 1990 is not plural enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. So, Mr. Kremjar. My pedigree really is a peasant. I'm with the farmers at home, but I'm proud of that. We read a lot there, too. It is true that farmers from northeastern Slovenia, as well as my father, if he wanted to survive the family, had to go to Austria since 1960 and work and serve there. Thanks to this, we got TV very quickly and listened, I don't know, to the show "Remember, Comrades" and so on. So, radio, television was actually in one house or the same medium, so that makes us very tedious. You know, Mr Kremjar, for us the world of democracy did not open in 1990. Maybe it's for some of the people sitting here. And we've wanted these things a lot before. However, with regard to the transfer of meetings, I agree with Mr Battelli. Only we can't make it legal. However, the National Assembly may, within the framework of the budget, spend some money on this, because it costs something. Today we have three televisions in Slovenia. One of these three would certainly like to do this service to the Slovenians and the Slovenes if you, who have a majority in this House, voted that some of the funds are intended to pluralise the media. So do it and you'll do the most for Slovenia. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Before I give the following word for the replica, my respectable colleague, truly, the word public, closed, open to the public, is connected to the media. However, you are going to debate again on the question of media pluralisation, which is the context too wide. Therefore, I respectfully ask you to limit yourself in the replicas that are still following to the agenda that we have before us, i.e. the two amendments to Article 100. Mr. Kebrich, then Mr. Kremjar. Do you give up, Mr. Kebrich? Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Everyone who wanted to listen and understand understood that I didn't want to hurt you. Mr Jerovska - not to hold back - I will ask for a sitting or during a recess to explain to me how I supported something here, which I did not, but let us do it then. For Mr Sok, however, it is somewhat significant that of the three radio programmes, Radio Slovenia or Radio Maribor and all others, he remembered only one radio show, "Remember, comrades", but it is interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u103	Mr. Kremjar, I'm sorry, you're overreacting. In view of the fact that no one else wants to discuss it, in accordance with the proposal and wish of the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I am adjourning the session for 30 minutes when we move to a decision on the two amendments to Article 100. So we continue at five minutes to half past three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u104	We're already six minutes behind schedule, so I politely ask you to take your seats so we can proceed. We'll be able to determine the presence first. We'll be able to determine the presence, so please press the quorum key. We're picking up the presence! 52 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I ask the president of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, does he want to explain? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote or a decision. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to 100. An explanation of the voice? Mr. Peterle, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. After this debate in the Group of Members, I found that those who think otherwise than the New Slovenia Group or the Coalition of Slovenia were not concerned with any fundamental matters and that this morning they traded with the public for small CK. If you support the decision in college, we will support the public. In this sense, there will be no problem with the unity of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to 100. We're voting! There are 68 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! 65 Members and Members are present. It's 42 votes to 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. Mr. Jerovšek! I'm sorry. Against the end, the voting apparatus has already recorded votes for and against when you raised your hand to explain the vote. I respectfully ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to raise your hand in time before I say "vote". It's really embarrassing. I don't want to deprive you of your right to an explanation of vote. It is unfair of you to do so when the vote is against the end. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 114th Article, of which the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia are proposed. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! 71 Members and Members are present. 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the same two parliamentary groups to Article 116. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! There are 72 Members and Members present. 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the same two parliamentary groups to 117. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 51. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 51.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 124. Under one is the amendment of the four parliamentary groups of positions and under the successive number two, the amendment of the two members of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, with a note, if the amendment is adopted under order number one, the amendment under point two of this review is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I would ask you if you could explain why the amendment under order number two would be irrelevant, since the amendment under order number two provides that the presentation may take 15 minutes instead of five, while the basic amendment contains a maximum of five minutes. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Let me explain. To the extent that an amendment under one completely changes the text that you are modifying with an amendment under order number two, it is amended in such a text that it is inconsistent. If your amendment were to state that this was an amendment to the amendment of four parliamentary groups, the National Assembly would, of course, decide on it. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you. Since we are in a fast procedure and the rules of procedure allow us to do so, we will propose this as an amendment to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u110	Amendment change, Mr. Sok. Would you like to make a written deposit? Are you requalified? That won't be necessary. So, first we're going to vote on the amendment under order number one. I apologize, under order number two, which is the amendment to the amendment of the four groups of Members. To the extent that others, Members and Members agree that I will make this oral form, we first vote on the amendment to the amendment contained in the text under your order number 2 and then on the basic amendment of the four groups of Members of the position. Is he okay? Mr. Jerovšek, you've raised your hand. Would you like to discuss it? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u111	I would like to be defined for this second paragraph. It is a matter of not having a general discussion. In such a matter, if a group of Members considers that it has an important message, it is absolutely too small for 5 minutes. When I look at the debates of the parliamentary groups on an important law, it seems to me that the leaders of the parliamentary groups, or the one who is in charge of a point, justify more than five minutes. Here we give no confidence to the current group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, when it is the most normal procedure. These articles are now designed so that on another body, little CK has already concluded everything, and here it is only now that it has fallen. [[...]] I hope the final fall didn't come through the back door through the harmonisation amendment. Accordingly, we are insinuating that article 23 is not acceptable today and that there must also be some possibility that a serious debate will take place on this matter. At least the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u113	It's obvious that we're talking about different things. You, Mr Jerovšek, are talking about general treatment. This Rules of Procedure provide that you have every opportunity to request a general debate if that is what you wish. After a certain procedure, you may request it. If you don't ask her, she's not. This is just about allowing you an additional opportunity to present, in whatever way, for any reason, or that it was not at the time when you were watching the law, to you so important that you thought that in those laws you would have a general discussion, you still have the opportunity to do so. That's all this is about. This is about one more option, not one less option. I don't understand that you're making a scene out of it now, so to speak, in which you're further limited, narrow and so on. It's the opposite. The whole structure is defined in the articles talking about the legislative process, the first, the second, and so on. And here's another exception. On the proposals, if you want, also the opposition in the second reading, so that this thing will somehow be possible for those groups that have fewer Members who speak, who have worse jobs and who may not have expressed the need for general treatment in the first reading. That's what this is about. It's not about further restraints. This amendment speaks of an additional option, not a restriction.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek first, then Mr Sok and Mr Peterle. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u115	For the last time, I drew attention to paragraphs 121 and 137, which seem to be an opportunity for the opposition, but the real intention of these two articles is to undermine the opposition's ability to do so. In fact, I hope that I am correctly explaining at least ten Members, but that is likely to be the case. And then, if he wasn't at second reading [[Article 137]] No amendments have been adopted to the amended bill, the State Assembly at the same meeting shall proceed to the vote on the law. And you will not make any amendments and be abolished. It will no longer be possible to draw attention to something in the general debate. So I see a lot of traps here, and I'm really sorry, and I don't know - that the representatives of the parliamentary groups wouldn't have had a 15-minute chance to make it seem like a waste of time, I don't understand that. I don't understand. We know from current practice that it is not so often that the laws of the parliamentary group are advertised if it is not an important law; but if it is an important law, I think it deserves more than five minutes by the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, then Mr. Peterle and Mr. Battelli. In addressing the amendments, please focus on Article 124, which speaks of second reading in the National Assembly. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I have responded to Mr Anderlich's performance, just as he thinks. I hope now that this amendment under order number 2 has been reclassified as an amendment to the coalition amendment, that most will also support this and give a 15-minute presentation, because in five minutes you really can't say much. For example, such a test, as the new Rules of Procedure will apply, was carried out here yesterday when the parliamentary working body for infrastructure rejected, without much discussion, the law on drought; then, according to the new Rules of Procedure, the proposer will have the opportunity to explain the reasons for the law in Parliament within five minutes. This is a significant understatement, or if he does not take advantage of all the procedural complications arising from this Rules of Procedure, he will not have this option at all. This is what I'd like to point out. Mr Anderlič, your coalition partner, Mr Potrč, has ensured that this Rules of Procedure are written for everyone. But you are constantly performing, "we allow you"; you should come from another assumption, "we afford". So this view is wrong in the apriority principle when it seems that the rules of procedure are being adapted to the current situation in this Parliament. That's exactly what you said, Mr. Anderlich, "we allow you." You need to start looking at and adopting this rule of procedure through the perspective of allowing ourselves, it is said, to write ourselves the rules of the game and to write ourselves, to all of us, the rules of procedure, because nowhere does it say that you will be an eternally ruling position; therefore, you may happen to be a quick opposition and then the rules of procedure with all these restrictions will apply to you just as at this moment is the case for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I have a replica of principled nature. Mr. Anderlich likes to say, "We allow you." I'd say it turned out so mercifully that all LDS could join together in Karitas. If you're so kind, give me 15 minutes. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u121	I'm sorry, I forgot something else. I'd say this, look. [[...]] In our democracy, we must tell the President of the National Assembly by 12 noon of the previous day that we have this desire to say more. Why is that, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u123	You see how little good sense there is in your understanding. And I don't believe that Christian morality allows it. I think I'm a bigger Christian than you are. I firmly believe that, because they abused both of them, they both abused my performance and reversed what I was talking about. It's true that it could have sounded as good as I said it would have. But given that you are always drawing back this rule of procedure, even though you, Mr Peterle, have stated several times in the previous term that a new Rules of Procedure should be made, more modern and so on. And when I said, "we do this," I meant the proponents. And when I was talking about the motions' amendment, that's what I was saying. But I'm sorry if I misspoke. But I'm sad that as a Christian, you don't take it well, but you abuse it. It's not really I don't stand up like this, but I'm trying what you are in the previous term, and it's not a new matter, and it's not my business, but it's been doing this for five years, and I hope it'll be done for once. But if it doesn't, there will be a relic of the past that we will live with for a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Two more replicas. Mr. Peterle and then Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u125	Since this has already happened several times, I have to react. The Slovenian book language does not know the word Christian, and I take it as an insult. We know Christians so far in Slovenia, we know liberals, we know infidels, and so on and so on. I'd ask them to stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u127	I'd just like to rephrase with my colleagues Peterlet and Sok for a moment. I think, however, that it is necessary for the proponents of the Rules of Procedure to be trusted. They're ascribed to us and they're predicting bad intentions where they don't exist. My friend Anderlich, when he says "we," he speaks for the proponents. But look. It will most likely be necessary for all of us to take a little more time and study the new procedure in very detail. Article 124 in conjunction with Article 121 speaks of the fact that we will have to play a much more active role than we have done so far. If we require a general debate to be held in the context of the first hearing, we will be able to do so. And then the debate will take place. And here these eyewitnesses that have been made have no weight. It is only a matter of whether the second reading takes 5 or 15 minutes. This will then be decided by a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the proponents what they had in mind to propose a piece for five minutes. Whether the applicants can explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Before that, I apologize to Mr Tsukati and Mr Battelli, who have notified themselves to the debate. First Mr. Sugar and then Mr. Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u131	Your Honor! The main text of the Rapporteur is limited or there is no restriction on the possibility that the second reading group will also carry out a general presentation of its position on the proposal for a law. The proposal of the parliamentary group now limits this only to cases where there was no first debate, a general debate. And that's acceptable, because we haven't discussed it, and we haven't even voted on it, or even voted on it. Question is, five or 15 minutes. These are cases, which are respected, say one party, one parliamentary group wanted a general discussion, knows the problems, wants to express them, argumentatively and so on. And if we give an individual amendment to an individual MP five minutes or three minutes, then it would be considered that the representative of the parliamentary group should, as a whole, discuss the law for at least fifteen minutes - this is what this is about. And I do not think that there will be any suffering here for our up-to-date work in the National Assembly if we are individual parliamentary groups, which are not so many, but allow that if there was no first debate, however, that in the second debate they would say their basic positions, arguments for and against and all the issues that are still at stake in the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say something in general about the time limit for discussions, and I would also like to try to detabulate this topic. If you look at how things have been going, how our work is going on, you will find that whenever there has been some debate about substantive changes and a different direction as it has been set up, and so on, in the bill or in the individual amendment or other important decision for this Parliament and this country, this argument has never lasted more than a few minutes from Members of the various parties and sent groups. If you read the declaration of independence, you will see that you will read it in three and a half minutes. There is no matter if it is still so important that it cannot be said briefly and clearly. There's no such thing. Even statesmen, when they turn to the state, except in some cases that we know, and say that the state is at war, do not do so at a time that is longer than five minutes. If you read the most extensive content comments of the best journalists in the world's best newspapers and see how long it takes to read it, you will not be able to reach 10 minutes. And these restrictions apply to everyone. This is not something that would silence the opposition or an individual Member like me, because I am in such a position. That's not what this is about. It is this, that is a contribution to our work being more prudent, that it is more effective and that we are all forced to say what is to be said in the debates. That's the purpose of it. And we are actually discussing this for some of us who have been here for a little while, we have been discussing this for 10 years. We all find that this should be done once. And all parliaments, or a large majority of parliaments, have such limitations. We have previously heard how the Council of Europe Assembly works. The same is true of the OSCE Assembly, where we participate and so forth. And that's not something I would go, what I'd say, against anyone's freedom. In this light, I think time limits should be understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Sugar, then Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u135	Mr Battelli spent almost 4 minutes more than 3 minutes on this amendment and spoke for himself. I believe that the Group of Members would be allowed to discuss the whole law or some whole document, however, if there was no first debate in the National Assembly, 15 minutes. I think this is a very rational decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I apologize before I give the floor to Mr Petty Officer, Mr Anderlich, I have a written but unfortunately under discussion. He wanted a replica. Mr. Anderlich, I'm sorry. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u137	There's obviously some things that need to be explained. I must honestly admit that this is a difficult way to work. The amendment in the second reading of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups read: "In the second reading they have at the meetings of the National Assembly, regardless of the fact that it was not required" and so on," the first reading, representatives were able to explain the position that the debate should not take more than 5 minutes. In the second reading, we adopted a proposal, this National Assembly, the New Slovenia Coalition and the SDS. And please don't tell us that we're doing anything here right now to try to limit you and so on. Those who wrote this amendment evidently believed that the first was the place where the general treatment was conducted. And that, of course, this general treatment must be required. In the absence of this general discussion, it is obvious that the law is not so important in the opinion of Members that they should have a general discussion, but that only an amendment debate is being held and amendments are being adopted. If it happened that it was later found that there was something important to say, the representatives of the groups said. This is the structure of the 124th Article, which was proposed - I have been unlocked here - on the proposal of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups. Please don't put us on a lie right now, or I don't know what we're trying to limit. It's just from my files, and you'll be able to track it from the magnetograms. Mr Bajuk, I want to tell you that these five minutes have come about in this way and in the second reading it is written as it is. In the third reading, however, it is only corrected editorially, substantively, that it can be presented. And for how long it will take, it is summarized from the amendment from the second reading that the assembly adopted. Mr. Peterle, why the last day before 12:00? Because the entire Rules of Procedure have been drawn up in a way that will be organised so that the President can be informed in advance: tomorrow there will be a general debate because someone has requested it in this and this law, because otherwise it would not have been because it had already been carried out in the first reading. And since the presentation of the parliamentary groups will take at least 5 minutes, that means 8x5 is 40 minutes. And planning a session where you have a variable of 40 minutes or two times 40 and so on, but that could be a lot. Or nine parliamentary groups, like here, and eight parties, which had previously been a bit of a dilemma. This is just to help make the assembly more organized. That's why he's pre-announced. However, if we announce it only when we arrive at the point, it means that what is planned for the next time, whether they want to or not, will go away somewhere else and that the deadline will no longer apply or will not be respected. That's why it's meant to be known in advance. Not because of any conspiracy or anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Since I have written Mr Drobnič first, a replica of the performance of Mr Battelli, then you wish to replicate Mr Anderlić first Mr Tanko and then Mr Jerovšek, and then it is 1300, we will be Mr Petan, I apologize. [[...]] Mr. Petan, then Mr. Jerovšek. We will continue these replicas in the afternoon at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u139	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, representative of the government! We continue the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that he further apologized for the continuation of the 8th session of 3.10.2001, namely the afternoon part of the sitting. As I predicted, we broke the replicas this morning. Mr Drobnic has the floor to replicate Mr Battelli's implementation and then Mr Petan and Mr Jerovšek, who are replicating Mr Anderlich. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u141	Can I just ask for a moment? Mr Barovic has a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm making the next procedural proposal. I propose that, after the completion of the 28th paragraph of the amendments, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the General Meeting, or the next regular meeting, be suspended. I base the proposal on: First time. A number of amendments have led to non-consistency between the articles and between the amendments and will probably require a lot of work to coordinate. Another time. Many adopted and unaccepted amendments will probably require a copy of the Rules of Procedure, so that all members of the National Assembly can see what the final picture is. And thirdly, many Members have or, if you want, probably for the first working week many other already agreed work obligations. And this also seems to me to be one of the arguments by which I can justify the procedural proposal. The proposal is, if you allow it again, the 28th item, the Rules of Procedure, the termination and continuation of the next regular meeting or, possibly, the reference to an extraordinary meeting in the coming days, after the completion of the consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, allow me just an explanation. When the vote on the amendments is concluded, the Secretariat will assess the preparation of the harmonisation amendments and then the National Assembly will decide on how to proceed. So we are now in the stage of discussion on the amendment to Article 127; and [[...]] [[Deals from the bench.]] Your Honor, allow us to finish. Thank you so much for the heads-up. That's my mistake. We will now first find the conclusion, and then, when we vote on the amendments, as has always been done in Parliament, we will assess how much time it takes to prepare the harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 67 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide on a valid basis. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye, everyone. At the beginning of this afternoon's session, first of all, a replica of Mr Battelli. Mr Battelli, I believe you would like to see that laws are adopted in an industrial way, very quickly. But that's not a good solution, I'll tell you. Given that you are proposing or advocating for a short time to discuss, I do not agree with you. If a marriage is to be presented with dignity, it takes fifteen minutes to present an average of a long marriage. There is a standard in the lecture, in the presentation: For one side of the presentation, it takes eight minutes. So if you present the law, it's on two sides, let's say not full two, it's exactly fifteen minutes. These are some standards that apply in the world. Madam President, I would ask that fellow Members give peace when I speak. For I also give peace when others speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u145	Your Honor! I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall so that Mr. Petty Officer can replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u146	But we probably won't need five minutes or seven minutes or fifteen minutes if it goes after such a "ordungi". For, of course, Mr Anderlič and Potrč will be able to adopt, in the current session and in the composition of the National Assembly, what kind of laws will go into the procedure, according to which procedure. In short, we will no longer have the fundamental rights of Members that they can make laws and that these laws are being dealt with. We will still be able to make laws, but the will of these two, who have a great deal of weight, regardless of Mr Anderlič's becoming thinner, will of course be more appropriate. This will also be possible with the harmonisation amendments likely to be done. In short, I don't know if we're still going to do this in great secrecy, will our people be pleased? We won't need MPs anymore. Two, three to decide. That is why, of course, I cannot agree with such a proposal and shortening the time for discussion. This, however, is a Parliament which must allow one to make arguments to face arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have talked a lot about this amendment, this is the first amendment to Article 124. I've been looking for documentation and second reading, and it's right, given that I'm also replicating Mr Anderlich, because I think that some things have just been handed over as a torn quote, and I think it's right to add to the fact that we know how those five minutes went. It was then in Article 127. In view of the fact that there was no possibility of such clarification if no second reading request had been made for the general discussion. And we have found this possibility in both groups of Members in the then 127th Article with exactly the same content as it is now presented in the third reading review. And that's because we just thought that five minutes would be the minimum that we'd probably find a consensus of two thirds of the majority. This would open this article and, of course, until the third reading, what we are doing now, we would have the opportunity to think thoroughly about how meaningful this is and how long it would take to do so. So I think it's over, or who wrote it, why he wrote it, whether it's five minutes too small, five too many. In general, in that time we found opportunities and, of course, after - to link to the previous hearing - after the Christian grace of most of us, of course we voted this amendment, for which, of course, I thank most of us for taking a step forward and having an open article, so that we can now discuss this in peace and, of course, also assess whether this time is sufficient to explain the Group of Members or could be greater. We believe that 5 minutes is too short and that is why, of course, we have proposed the amendment that is before us and, of course, which we have justified in one way or another, and I have explained how this has happened. And, of course, I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u150	Your Honor! In this matter of mine, Mr Batteli, I think it was best that he himself argued that 5 minutes was not enough for the parliamentary groups, even though he spoke with another intention. In fact, he said that very few times it happened to extend. This is the best argument that there is no need to limit, but if anything is important, it is also necessary for a few minutes more. Mr. Cuckoo warned him if he wanted to explain anything, he himself spent 4 minutes on this replica. So five minutes is too short. And second of all, Mr. Anderlich, I'm not going to go to another content. He explained in the morning that there were no eight parties in this National Assembly. He argued substantively, and then I asked him to tell which client he took away from him, which one represents an additional one. In his final performance, however, he claimed that when he argued that this was enough to take eight times five minutes, it was 40 minutes. Now he's got his client back. Now I don't know where. Make it clear. Once he claims that there are no eight clients, and then there are again when he needs his argument, and one of the parties, I think he's out there somewhere, and he's giving her that independence back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u152	I will not answer Mr Jerovšk because it is really difficult to say something about such implementation, which would be at the expense of the Rules of Procedure or for any improvement in the Rules of Procedure. But to Mr. Tiny, because I thought he was trying to understand what it was. But he was just talking about some third thing. When it comes to the presentation of the law, the presentation is unlimited. It's unlimited. However, when it comes to discussing or presenting the views of the parliamentary group on the law, the proposed 5 minutes are on the proposal of the SDS and New Slovenia. These are two completely different things. Those who represent any law will be able to represent it indefinitely. You've got all of this in this Rules of Procedure. And it's a real fabrication of things that are in the rules of procedure. Or it's a misunderstanding. And because I wanted to correct the statement that was misspoken here, I volunteered for the word. And there is really no talk in this article about the presentation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We also received the amended amendment to Article 124 on the table. This is the amendment to the amendment, which we will first vote on, and then to the amendment, which is under order number 1 on page 10, as well as Article 124. We therefore vote first on the amendment to the amendment, of which the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia are candidates. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number one in the review. We're voting. I'm sorry. Just a minute. There's something wrong with the device. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 12. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the amendment to Article 124 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 127. Both proposers are Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting! There are 74 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 129. Under order number one is the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia; under order number four of the coalition groups. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u154	In a few cases, the amendment of the Liberal Democrats is repeated here to turn the "start of the vote" into "end of the debate". I would point out that the amendment cannot be tabled until the end of the debate, because no one knows how the debate will take place, what the new arguments will be, and when the debate is over, only then can a decision be made for some smart amendment or some smart change. That's why it's smart to stay up to - that's what it says if there's an old diction - "until the start of the vote".
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 21. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 132. The proposers of the amendment are four parliamentary groups and two parliamentary groups, Nova Slovenija and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? For no, we pass through the Lord Jerovšek. Here you are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u156	I think that this first amendment is actually pointless and is not in line with the practice we have here. We know that it is quite often in the practice so far that on the parental committee a law or something did not break through, but here in the debate we found other reasons, other arguments, and the law went on. I don't know if you want to take any of this into account. It says here that if there is no support on the working body, the assembly does not discuss and the law goes out. I think it's a waste of work and effort. See how the opposition gets some kind of law through the infrastructure. There you are - now I don't know if there's another relationship - there are 17 members, or how many of the LDS have applied. Yeah, how, when you have an absolute majority yourself! These are as important areas as I don't know what, there are billions and billions! Now, if I go a little further, on the infrastructure in the road programme, here money will be spent in all possible ways, the opposition will not be able to draw attention to anything else. No, that's not normal, and this amendment is not good. I think it should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. So that's one of those articles that he's taking, he's really taking certain rights to the opposition and he's a typical position article or, if you want, anti- opposition, say, who talks about the rights of the opposition. Indeed, it is true that the Rules of Procedure spell out exactly what the opposition has the right to do and how many laws it can propose at any meeting; that is true, no one would object. But in this amendment, that rule is nullified, and to a large extent, not entirely, but partly. My colleague told me nicely that the law filed by the opposition "a priori" ran into the opposition of the ruling majority. Now I'm not gonna say if it's normal or not normal, but that's what happens, say, that's how it happens. It is true that, even in this amendment they have made, I will tell the proposers that I will not list all of them so that the representative of the proposer can have a word. That's added, I agree with that. However, it is not the same if only a representative of the proposer can explain in five minutes the purpose of this law and also the content of the law, others, representatives of other groups of Members who are not proposing this law, or whether individual Members may give their opinion. I think that we are right now in a period when we have such a marriage ahead of us, and if it were new, it would probably look very different. Because it's not just about bringing a law into the National Assembly, but it's about content, we're talking about content. And that's why I don't argue with the proponents, I'm just stating the facts of what this law can bring, nothing else. That's all this is about. I do not argue that the applicants had this purpose, I do not say, but that such a situation may also occur, when the right that you have enshrined in this Rules of Procedure, the right of every opposition party to propose a law, and so on, I do not repeat it, with this amendment to a large extent, to destroy or acquit or that good purpose that was, has lost all that power. That's what this is about, and I'll tell you again, consider if my claim is correct, and if it is, then I wouldn't accept such an amendment. I'm saying to think about it. Our view is such that such a situation can occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich, then Mr Rokavec and Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u160	He can't, Mr. Petan. You must also read Article 121, which clearly states that a general treatment may be required and carried out. And in this 127th or 132nd article, we are simply explaining what was amended in the second reading and obviously was not an amendment in the second reading, but not only our amendment Pa, we are simply saying that in the very basic article, what we have now in urgent procedures, for example, is that it is best to see that when the mother's working body suggests that the rapid procedure is not adopted, and this is also confirmed by the national assembly, then the president of the national assembly or the president sends the home working body to consider the law. And it is now in this amendment that the second paragraph should therefore be amended only if, after the proposal of the parent working body has already been requested or, in any event, the debate has been that, despite the entire working body, it has proposed to the national assembly that the law is not suitable for continuation and that it should reject it. And if the National Assembly refuses, the procedure is closed. If it has not been rejected, the President or the President shall send the working body back to the hearing. This is how it is done and there is no phase down, on the contrary, everything, you can demand it, yes, if you suggest it, you will have it, Mr Jerovšek, if you do not propose, but it requires some attention, some concentration and focus on individual proposals. And in the 121st article, you have a 15-day deadline so you can, of course, determine whether you want to discuss a law or not. The 15 - day deadline is available to achieve this. And, of course, since the structure of the legislative procedure was composed in several articles and at different stages, it was also necessary to provide for this option, once as a rejection of the proposal of the home labour body at the assembly and twice as opposed to the adoption. And in both cases, the solution is clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u161	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Look, I'll tell you a practical case. For example, Minister Gantar will not file a law on the recovery of excessively paid telecommunications funds, which he has promised and which he has, I think, is the agreement of this national council that this must be returned because some have paid 10,000 marks and others have paid nothing. The deadline is up, and this marriage is obviously not going to happen. It will be filed by the opposition. There's no first reading. Therefore, such articles need to be dissected a little. It looks normal outside, but the opposition will put it in. And in infrastructure, you have such an absolute majority as one party, I think. Look, you can see from this and also from how interested you are. Yesterday, you executed one director for six months because he wasn't fit enough. It is no longer possible to bring this law back, although the whole of Slovenia agrees that citizens need to get something because there is huge money turning around for Telekom, huge profits. It is not possible, however, to bypass the amendment and such rules of procedure. I think so. And look, you can actually see under the skin where the intentions of such amendments lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you. We are talking about this part of Article 121 and then this amendment. If the national assembly decides that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, the legislative procedure shall be terminated. This is the case now. And now I'm going back to this amendment. The proposal for a second-reading law, for which the mother's labour body has concluded that it is not suitable for further consideration, the mother's labour body, the national assembly does not discuss but votes on the proposal of the mother's labour body. If the proposal of the parent working body is adopted, the legislative procedure shall be terminated. This is a possibility I was talking about, this possibility. Now I'm speaking hypothetically, what I'm about to say. Just hypothetical. I'm not saying that's all it's ever been, or I don't know how many times. It happens that the opposition makes a law. In the parent's working body, given what I said earlier, "a priori" is the attitude of, say, rejecting. That's the practice. I'm not saying value is not determined whether it's good or bad or not. That's the practice. This marriage comes to its mother's work body, it's rejected. It is said that this is not discussed in the National Assembly, but that the procedure is closed. But it is, and what I said earlier, that you have made an amendment, that the representative can only explain. I say that it would be right and that others who are not proposing this law might wish to speak about this law. They can see the good in that. That's what I'm saying in this context. Nothing else. The rest of what you said to Mr Anderlich, I agree with you. But I'm specifically talking about this situation that can happen. And I said that now we have an example of a drought law that I don't determine whether it's good or bad, but it's probably new. But after this new rule of procedure, the matter would be closed. The representative of the proposer would have 5 minutes to say the matter. What do others think of this law, which can also see something good, and they would not have that option. That's the option I'm talking about. And here you are, somehow, I will say, shorten the possibilities for some good information, or a second view of a particular matter, which might be suitable for another candidate who would bring such a law into the National Assembly with such content and could also do part of the debate. That's what I meant and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 132 under order number 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 17. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 133. Under order number 1, the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, and under order number 2, four parliamentary groups, proposers. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on amendment number one. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 22 to 46. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 69 votes against 2. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 134. The amendment under order number 1 was proposed by the Rules of Procedure Commission, with a footnote, if adopted, the amendment under point 2 of this review, of which four members are candidates, is irrelevant. Under order number 3 is the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted; the amendment under order number 2 has become irrelevant. We also decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 138. Under order number 1, the amendment of the four proposed groups with the footnotes, if this amendment is adopted, shall be without prejudice to any other amendments to this Article. Under order number 2 is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia and under 3 is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u166	Well, this is about the amendment tabled by the SMS Group. This is about putting an amendment into phase two of the law. It was not possible for the Group of Members to table amendments under the previous provisions, but only with 23 Members or one fifth of Members. We propose that this, this criterion, be slightly dropped on the parliamentary group. Although such an amendment did not go through in the second reading, we now see that our colleagues in the coalition have somehow given in and we are pleased that they have somehow accepted this proposal, so we will support any of these three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u168	The amendment under number 1 therefore proposes that at least one-fifth of the Members and, as in the text, that is to say, in those groups which, together with the number of their members, achieve the required majority for the amendment. The majority is supposed to be replaced by a unit, "the parliamentary group". It means that only in the case of a large group of Members, the Head of the Group has the mandate to propose a matter on behalf of its Members, a small group of Members, and even if two have agreed and together reach a fifth of the Members, they would not have the right to do so. Again, I wonder why. Why should it not remain, as is the case so far, from the second reading that at least one-fifth of the Members are required, with at least one-fifth of them being able to be reached by signatures or if so many Members representing a fifth of the Members in their entirety are recruited? Therefore, this representative function of the parliamentary group cannot only apply to a large party. It's nonsense. That's why I'm against this amendment under number one.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It was 53 votes against 11. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the amendment under order number 1 has been adopted and therefore the amendments under order numbers 2 and 3 have become irrelevant. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, the bill-maker, to 144th Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 151st Article, of which the new Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia are proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 152th Article, of which four parliamentary groups are proposing the bill. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 65 votes against 2. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 158. The amendment under number 1 shall be proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, noting that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the applicants to Article 159 under Article 2(2) of the review; if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment under Article 2 to Article 159 shall also be irrelevant. Under order number 2, the amendment of the members of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia is an amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u170	I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs how it is possible here, because there are two different articles, that the matter may be irrelevant because the matter is not within the same Article and in the other case this did not apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u172	I may have a similar question myself, but I also have the following. Indeed, it is a matter of adopting a supplementary draft budget. So, if we have allowed a third reading parliamentary group to table an amendment in the legislative process, I wonder how it is possible not to allow this to happen in the adoption of the supplementary draft budget. Indeed, as we recall, this year, when we adopted this year's budget, this National Assembly has placed itself more in the role of an aide to this year's state budget than in the role of accepting the state budget. And I think that, with such restrictions, the Council of State further reduces the role of the operational body that adopts and decides on the annual state budget. And second. I think that following the adoption of the third amendment to the adoption of individual laws, and in this case in the process of adopting the supplementary annual budget, there is a way of distinguishing the possibility that the quorum may make an amendment in this final examination of a particular document. It would therefore make sense, in my opinion, that, in the process of adopting the supplementary draft budget, it would also be possible for each parliamentary group to be an amendment candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Since Mr Peterle, as far as I have assessed, was receiving Mrs Bitenchev's explanations, I ask whether he is satisfied with Mrs Bitenc's willingness to explain to the national assembly. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 22 to 46. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 159. We will not discuss the amendment under order number 2 or decide because it has become irrelevant because of the non-admission of the amendment under paragraphs 1 to 158. Therefore, in order to discuss and decide, I am putting an amendment under Articles 1 and 3 to 159. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the Rules of Procedure Commission and under 3 by the four parliamentary groups, the bill-makers. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, the amendment under 1. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 62 votes against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 161st Article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 68 Members and Members present. 17 votes against 47. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 164, which is proposed by the parliamentary group, by the drafters of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 74 Members and Members present. 62 votes against 6. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 167th Article, of which the proposed parliamentary group is the bill-maker. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! 66 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the same motioners to Article 175. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! 69 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 16. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 179 of the same proposal. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 67 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 213. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission. Under order number 2, however, is the amendment of the parliamentary groups, the bill-maker. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We move on to the decision first on the amendment to the amendment under order number 1. Let's vote! 71 Members and Members are present. It's 67 votes against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 1 has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 59 votes against one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 238, of which the parliamentary group is proposing, to proposers of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 62 votes against 5. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to 240th Article, of which the new Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia are proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 242 which is also proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to 247th Article, of which the parliamentary group is proposing, the bill's proponents. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 11. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 282. Under number 1, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission, and under order number 2, the amendment of the parliamentary groups, is proposed by the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 53 to 13. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 54 votes to 12. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 285, whose proposer is the Rules of Procedure Commission. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 70 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 14. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Mr. Barovich, if you'll excuse me. We are obliged to ask the Secretariat, as is the rule in the third reading. As I assess what your procedural proposal will be, I think we are about to adopt a conclusion that will be just as you wanted to propose. I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law? Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u174	Dear Madam Vice President, the House of Respect! We are already aware that certain inconsistencies have occurred during the adoption of the amendments. However, it takes time for the Secretariat to fully determine this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since the Rules of Procedure are inconsistent, I interrupt this item on the agenda for the preparation of the harmonisation amendments; and [[The voices in the background.]] reports by the secretariat. [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] When the harmonisation amendment and the secretariat report on the coordination and non-conformity of Mr Anderlič is prepared, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u176	As far as the candidates are concerned, we need 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u177	Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The secretariat will prepare a report on non-compliance when it examines the whole act. I can't tell when it's gonna be what it's gonna be about spending time. We will now begin to work, and once we have a written report for the assembly prepared, of course we will hand it over immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you very much. When there is a written report on the House of Members and, on the basis of this, the drafter prepares the harmonisation amendments, if there is indisputably a disagreement between the two, we will proceed with this item on the agenda. I'm stressing again. Once the members of the National Assembly have received the secretariat's report on non-compliance, the assembly will take note of this. Once the applicants have time to prepare the harmonisation amendment on the basis of the report, we will continue with this item on the agenda. I think this is right for the proposaler and the Members. Procedural proposal. Mr Barovic unfortunately raised his hand before that, then Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u180	On the basis of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, I first ask a procedural question. The third paragraph was violated, in my opinion, by my first procedural proposal. And I continue, I am again making a procedural proposal, which is very clear, also on time. It shall be decided by the national assembly on the basis of paragraph 3 of Article 88. It is said, however, that we propose that this item be suspended and resumed at the next regular meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal was clear enough. This is a procedural proposal that we are proposing, if I am not mistaken, Mr Peterlet, to move the points, we are already on it. If you remember, we have already decided on such a procedural proposal at the same point on the proposal of the Group of Members or at the second point on the basis of this procedural proposal, on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, if you propose it on behalf of the Group of Members, it may also be possible, after the first paragraph, to identify the proposer and representatives of the groups of Members, as it is a proposal to move to one of the following meetings. Would you like to speak to the proposer or representatives of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u182	Of course, because I wanted to be here before, because obviously it was not possible to have a rational discussion here, because there are other reasons, of course, for not wanting to have a normal discussion about this rule of procedure. I do not think there is any reason that the Rules of Procedure, which were drawn up for five years in the section which was discussed in the three stages of the National Assembly, the Secretariat of Law has always been involved, only two amendments after the Secretariat has ensured that the Rules of Procedure are consistent, only two amendments have not been adopted. So talking about the need to, I don't know how much time and I don't know what kind of preparations and, above all, saying that Members have other obligations and that we wouldn't want to discuss the rules of procedure at this meeting is not right. I suggest we return to this agenda tomorrow at ten o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Since the parliamentary groups do not wish to define themselves for this proposal, I am putting to the vote first the procedural proposal presented by Mr Barovic and then the procedural proposal presented by Mr Anderlič on behalf of the bill's proponents. We are obliged to vote on Mr Barovic's procedural proposal that we do not mix things up. We are voting on Mr Barovic's procedural proposal. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 27 to 50. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that Mr Barovic's procedural proposal has not been adopted. I am putting to the vote Mr Anderlich's procedural proposal that the National Assembly deal with the harmonisation amendments, or continue its consideration of the rules of procedure tomorrow at 10 a.m. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes to 23. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. Mr. Jerovšek, I know what you're going to tell me. The procedural proposal made by Mr Barovic is in accordance with Article 73, which deals with the move of the point to the next meeting and provides for a completely different procedure and may be defined by the groups of Members. The procedural proposals under the agenda and the postponement of the items are not intended to be defined by the Group of Members; otherwise, without explanation of vote and without discussion, the Procedural Proposal shall be decided. That is how we voted on Mr Anderlich's procedural proposal as well as on a classic procedural proposal. I insist on this explanation. If you object, please inform the opposition; whether the National Assembly agrees with you or with me, you may also, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give a procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think there's been a violation of the rules of procedure. Look, Mr Anderlich has done something with his power, which, of course, under the new rules of procedure, will come to a much more drastic conclusion, and we will be more lilyputate other Members in the future than we have been before. However, I have warned in due time during today's procedure that some amendments are irrelevant because the roof amendment has not been adopted. This is where conscious manipulation occurred. We could take into account the fact that some of the amendments have been eliminated, which I have warned you about. The secretariat then said today that there is a lot of inconsistencies, quite a lot of contradictions, but Mr Anderlič already has in mind what he will do, what a coordination proposal will be. I protest against this and please, Madam President, to punish Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u185	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much. However, you are using the Business Institute of the Procedural Proposal for your debate, which has nothing to do with the procedural proposal. So we interrupt this point and continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. We're moving on to 27. It's a day's work.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u186	Colleagues and colleagues! Can we proceed with the meeting? If you want a five-minute break, can I give it to you, but I suggest you take a five-minute break for preparation? [[...]] I'm taking five minutes off. We're going to move on to 15.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u187	We will continue with the 27th item, by means of a proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms in 2001, following a rapid procedure. It's 12:52. Please, colleagues and colleagues, if you're so kind as to take your seats. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please take your seats. We'll be able to determine the presence of the hall. We're detecting presence in the hall, please press the quorum key. There are 46 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may continue with the 8th meeting. We're moving on to Continuum 27. Agenda items, this is to the defence of the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for the recovery of the consequences of drought, colds and storms during the summer of 2001. The last positions of the parliamentary groups will be presented by colleague Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. This will, at least after the announcements, end with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament and we will go to the debates. In writing, a colleague of Peterle signed up for the debate. First of all, my colleague, Sok, on behalf of the Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I see that there are no government representatives in the Chamber, and this in fact also points to the government's attitude towards this law. Yesterday it was somehow said that with my proposal I had rushed the government's proposal, but the government is if you read the opinions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u189	The only one with a word is Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u190	The government itself admitted that it was late for the proposal of this law. If there had not been a proposal for a law on our part, I am sure that we would not have considered this issue at this time. We waited until the first government meeting in early September, and when we saw that the government did not consider the draft of this law at its meeting, despite the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Agriculture at its extraordinary meeting on the occasion of the Radgon Fair, we decided to submit our proposal for a law and, in fact, the position of some Members here would be very surprising, in particular, to say Members from Northeastern Slovenia, from Prekmur, who propose that this law be rejected. I am being determined until the decision of the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee. Here I could count or read quotes from some of the prominent Members of this Parliament who last year, when a similar law was passed in Parliament, were extremely trying to prove to the government that they were late with their proposal. They have tried extremely hard to prove that Slovenian agriculture is in an extremely difficult situation. But this year, when the drought and the cold have already ravaged our farming for the second time, these same Members are advocating that this proposal of my law is completely rejected and that it will wait procedurally for a proposal which, according to my assessment, the government has not even submitted if I am aware of this matter. I would like to say that in agriculture, it is not only direct damage to the law that is being tabled. In particular, agricultural damage is also large indirectly. This is how the fishermen reported damage to Parliament, and beekeepers reported it to us. By the way, I can say that beekeepers say that as bad beekeeping as it was this year, they do not remember, although recently in Brussels the Slovenian bee has been recognised as an indigenous Slovenian species in the field of livestock. I am indeed surprised by the position of Members from the Prekmurje area, who say "let us reject the law". Not all, but some, that I should not needlessly provoke the wrath of any of the Members. The law under consideration was given a positive opinion by the Committee on Agriculture in the State Council. A positive opinion was also given to this law by the Agricultural - Forestry Chamber. Some parliamentary groups have also voted in favour of this law. In the end, I hope that the majority of this House, which is before us, will be able to support this law as a suitable basis for further consideration. The law is adopted quickly, and I am convinced that this is the only real proposal in the context of this meeting of the National Assembly, which is worthy of being dealt with quickly, as the problems in agriculture are growing. For the second year in a row, Slovenian agriculture suffered considerable damage, but we know that the funds are not even paid in full for last year. If I can define myself as some Members on behalf of the groups before me, to this government proposal, which assessed that the proposal I proposed was bad, I would like to draw attention to some of the solutions in the government proposal that are being suggested. In particular, the government proposal provides that the damage should be paid directly. In some ways, we would agree, if this direct payment were not linked to too much correspondence, with too much red tape. When I was in my office on Monday, a farmer came to me complaining that he had to go and report the damage he suffered at four municipal offices because of instructions sent by the Ministry to the municipalities. So he had to go to four congregations, because he had his lands distributed and distributed in four congregations. The next step in the government proposal is to settle, in a certain percentage, only the damage that is more than 30%. Here the government proposal mentions the guidelines of the European Union in its explanation. I reiterate that Slovenia is not yet in the European Union, and Slovenia is just preparing for the European Union. In addition, it should be noted that the ownership structure in Slovenia is extremely poor compared to the European Union; the average size of the Slovenian farm is less than 5 hectares. Furthermore, this proposal of a government law is selective because it excludes all those who have less than one hectare of land and all those who, after this law, would receive less than 30 thousand from this complex formula. Once again, I would like to stress that the basic principle of the national agricultural programme is eco-social agricultural policy. That's why we find it inappropriate to rule people out. I can tell you that in northeastern Slovenia, there are many people working in a factory for 60,000 monthly wages and that 30,000 also means something to him. In fact, the basic disadvantage of the government proposal is that we do not know at this time what this government proposal means, what obligations this proposal entails for the budget. The government proposal states that this year they will be affected by all these assessments and by this formula, which will only become feasible on the basis of instructions from the Minister for Environment and Space when the Minister adopts these instructions in order to obtain only 8% of the funds of the economy. I personally believe that the Commission's freedom and all the work and all the correspondence in this law has cost more than 8% of the estimated damage. I would also like to point out that I think the Ministry of the Environment's assessments and the space far too low. With this law, the Ministry is prepared to devote a total of 5.5 billion tolls, about one billion this year, which is said to be negligiblely little, and four and a half billion next year. In particular, I would like to point out that aid for drought is not only an aid to agriculture itself, but also an indirect aid to the industry. It should be borne in mind that at least two jobs in other industries are connected to each agricultural job. Here I am referring to the processing-food industry and, of course, also to the machinery industry. If there is no accumulation in agriculture, if there is no amortisation, then it is easy to imagine that farmers do not have the money, nor do they have the means to carry out a good autumn plant, as it must be done if we want to produce next year’s quality, even more, farmers do not have the resources to buy or replace spent equipment. In addition, immediate assistance should be given to this fact so that farmers can purchase adequate feed for their livestock. If we do not help immediately, of course farmers without food will sell livestock and our livestock fund will also be reduced as regards the herd, which will be a major damage to Slovenia. The only thing this government law summarises on the basis of a proposal I have read and tabled myself is that the government is also willing to sign part of the tax and part of the contribution to pension, health and disability insurance, but the government is not prepared to write off a portion of the lease on buildings to all those who rent agricultural land. I will therefore conclude the presentation of our Group of Members. I would like to appeal once again to those who wish to delay this matter and suggest that they do not do so. Let this law, which has been tabled, remain in the parliamentary procedure and, of course, the government has the amendments already in place and we will then be able to proceed immediately to the second stage of the consideration of the amendments. We have enough time today until 6 p.m. to actually adopt this law. Thank you very much for your attention and I ask you for a positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Do you have a procedural initiative? Please. Just a minute. If I understand correctly, does colleague Weber want to do it on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Then we will wait for the views of the Group to be drawn. I'll give you the procedural word immediately. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u192	That's not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u193	According to the rules, you have this option, just given that all of them, 5 of them have turned out to be, or you give the chance to give your colleague Weber if you insist, I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u194	I think it will have more weight if my procedural proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u195	If you insist, then I can't do anything but give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of this law is extremely important. In view of the political situation, the performance of Mr Kopač, Minister of State, on a similar law last year, I think it is extremely important and also decisive and important for me to participate in this debate. I note that Mr Minister is probably rather conscientiously ignoring this debate and taking part in this debate. Yesterday almost all the ministers were sitting here waiting for the Prime Minister, Mr Drnovsk, but I did not see Minister Kopač among the ministers. Of course, we all know that Minister Kopač forbids the implementation of laws relating to Slovenian agriculture relating to the resolution of the problems of the Slovenian farmer. I think all Members would like to ask in the eyes of the Minister whether he will also declare in this law that this law will not be implemented. Because then our work is, in fact, irrelevant, unnecessary. Mr President, I allow the possibility that today the Minister cannot yet be here because the item has just arrived unannounced on the agenda or when the preceding item will end. Yesterday, however, the beginning of this point was far ahead of schedule and this point was intended to end yesterday, but there was no minister in the ministerial benches. Therefore, I propose that, by the time Mr Minister is able to attend this meeting, but today, of course, or tomorrow, that he treats it as a matter of priority, not as a rule of procedure, that this point should be terminated until the Minister attends this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u197	Comrade Jerovšek, the Rules of Procedure are not broken because the Minister is not in the Chamber. The government has informed us that his deputies may be present here in his absence and that we are witnessing. Here are his deputies. There is no reason why the National Assembly should not or could hold a debate and decide. I therefore suggest that, only if you insist, I will put this procedural proposal to the vote, but I must warn you that its content is not commercially justified because the Minister is not obliged to be present in the debate in the National Assembly if he is detained. The Minister is detained, his deputies are here, they can participate in the debate in a high-quality manner. I will put the proposal to the vote without discussion, but I think it is right that the National Assembly has this explanation. So, colleague Jerovšek, suggests that the National Assembly suspend the meeting until this meeting is followed, Minister Booth, if I understand. You can explain more. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u198	With that explanation, I'd like to know whether the Minister is absent from abroad or anywhere. Otherwise, we are all aware that it is extremely important for the Minister to be at this point or this point of law - he stated that he will not be implemented last year - here and we must ask him whether he wants to implement this law. If it's physical - and I want to know about yesterday - it's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u199	Comrade Jerovšek, allow me to interrupt you. I'll put your proposal to the vote. I have informed the National Assembly that Minister Kopač is not obliged to be in the debate if he is replaced by his deputies for excusable reasons. They're here. The National Assembly can decide. Your proposal to suspend the meeting until the presence of Minister Kopač is put to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present, 15 supported by the proposal, 34 not supported by the proposal. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposal has not received the necessary support and that we can continue to discuss the bill. The last position, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, will be presented by colleague Weber. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, I would like to point out that the two-way procedure certainly does not benefit from a rapid solution to this pressing problem. In the fact that the Committee on Agriculture itself has already adopted the relevant decisions already at the Radgona Fair, the fact that the Government has also adopted the appropriate guidelines for the description of the damage and has also sent a notice for the establishment of commissions which are actually already collecting data on the ground, and the fact that the law by the Government has been introduced into the procedure in the National Assembly 25.9.2001 is certainly to be taken very seriously into this procedure. On the part of our parliamentary group, we propose to proceed effectively with a procedure initiated by the government, which will ultimately have very clear data on the estimated damage caused by drought, cold and hailstorms. Last but not least, the law currently in the procedure relies largely on the data of the agri-agricultural chamber and the data that is supposed to be collected by 20 October will certainly be slightly different from those that have been collected so far by the chamber somehow. So it is a number of valid reasons, but it also entails financial consequences, and not only the enforcement of the law. We therefore believe that this procedure, which has also been continued on the Infrastructure Committee and which ended with the conclusion that the proposal for a law tabled by colleague Sok should not be adopted at this meeting, is also continuing on this path. Since there is indeed very great readiness in all the parliamentary groups, I think that there will also be no difficulty in agreeing with the leadership of the National Assembly on the convening of a possible extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to deal with this law, namely the Government's Law on Drought, and I therefore think that we would actually show very great willingness both at the level of the Government, the State Assembly and every individual in this Parliament to really solve this problem or to provide a legal basis for solving the problem of drought, drought and drought and storms in 2001. That is why, in the Group of Members, we believe that this law is not actually adopted and that we should do everything possible to ensure that the procedure is also at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and that, of course, the Government law is brought to an end as soon as possible, so that, at the time when the censuses are completed, it can also proceed to the settlement of the damage, only in accordance with the law adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much. My colleague Maria Pozsonec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of my constituents, I feel a duty to uphold the law. I would support this marriage, but whatever it would be, because I think the old proverb says that someone quickly does, twice does. As an MEP from Pomur, I believe that every beginning, every attempt must be supported. In turn, drought destroys crops twice in our fields. However, I cannot help but overlook the fact that the government, which has many professional co-workers at its disposal, has an extremely low level of attitude towards farmers and agriculture. Then they are insulted, extremely offended, that someone is trying to make a law and they are triumphantly watching Members condemn the joint work of the one who walks in the will of the government. What I said, I absolutely don't mean Minister Kopach, because he really isn't responsible for last year's snow. This pursuit against him will not save the drought or agriculture. I'll support the law on my own. However, I am sure that it is in the interests of farmers, although I am aware that this is not a permanent solution. However, I expect the government to prepare a comprehensive solution to this problem, and I hope that it will not wait for the drought in 2002, because such financial intervention simply cannot be overcome by our country. Financial interventions do not even compensate farmers for the damage they suffer. Where else is development in agriculture? I believe that we have so many experts at universities and in Slovenia who would be able to prepare a drought programme. Someone should finally tell farmers what crops to grow to be safe from drought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. Dear colleagues Aloise Peterle, Franci Rokavec and Jože Ašič will now perform. Comrade Jerovšek as well as the fourth, without the time limit of their performance. And everyone else behind them will have a chance to discuss it for up to five minutes. First of all, he's got the word of his colleague, Lois Peterle. You have the floor, Comrade Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u205	I beg for peace in the hall! My friend Peterle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u206	The debates that we have heard about this law have been so pointed out that they were almost already offensive to the bill's proponent, which is well aware of the situation in the areas where it happened. It was almost declared not to be necessary, who wanted to compete with the government and occupied the procedure, as it is called, and was thus portrayed as a villain. Mr Sok was at the Radgon Farm Fair, he listened attentively to the government or the government representative, he remembered the promise that the government would react quickly, he waited 10 days, he was promised 27 days, and he made a proposal which the government itself could, of course, have made, given that we had already resolved a similar situation in Slovenian agriculture in the past year. But there have been strange things that he's already warned about, and I'm not going to renew them all. I looked at a little proposal that the government had made with great delay, but which had already made a number of amendments, some acceptable to our party, for the proposaler, some not. So the government went to work twice if I say so. We are now witnessing an event that is not taking place in Slovenia. The first time you have to solve a single thing, you say you have to solve the whole thing, and then, of course, you follow the method that saves the whole, by not criticizing this rescue, at least not on this occasion. When I compared what the government is offering with what the proposed Sok offers, I found out the following. I'm a beekeeper, and I'm used to moaning, and I'm gonna wait for the drones to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u207	Can you please, Comrade Ferri Horvat, colleague of Battelli, colleague of Peterle wishes to have the same peace as everyone else during his performance? I think it's best that we let him do that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your intervention. The difference between Sok and what the government offered late is the next. Sok's proposal offered a quick solution, feasible, methodologically non-problem, tested, already accepted and also from important institutions such as the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber and the State Council, or its Agriculture Commission, which is not currently supported by the government proposal. He offered a solution that I think is realistic and, of course, a larger or government offer is lower and around 20 percent will be paid this year. I'm not saying, "you'd be dat qui cito dat." The government here referred to the guidelines of the European Union, although at the moment when we have such a need, there is no need for such haste with European guidelines. For the second year, I would say that the government should take the time to do so, so that we will always be ready to do so, and we will just put the amount in a column and start to solve matters after the damage has been established. I have looked at this government proposal, which in many ways is messy, in my opinion, and in the text, I am referring to matters around Articles 7 and 8, in particular the material previously interprets some methodological matters that do not appear to be very much related to the law. I mean those methodological parts and maps. If so, as stated in Article 7(1), the Minister will prescribe the review and validation of the professional basis for determining geographically rounded areas. So we - or those who will do so - will only propose methodologies, confirm, review, as it says, how to identify or determine geographically rounded areas. It is said that again after a call or not, someone will have to be approved, and that some institute will do so, then the profession will look at the minister, then the minister will look, then the damage will be verified - interestingly, that verification is later than those grounds for rounding up the areas. A person has the impression that it is more of a different profession, an auxiliary profession in this case, than an already tested way of dealing with the problem of damage. Article 8 directly states that the Minister shall prescribe the preparation of professional bases for the determination of rounded geographical areas. For the last time, there was also talk about geomorphology, which belongs here. Here I see great professional problems because the matter is not only dependent on inclinations and geological compositions, lithological compositions and so on and on and on theoretical models, how much precipitation can fall on some type of area, but the thing is mainly dependent on what's on some inclination, what happened to that, because it can fall there float, whether there's drought and so on, it can fall more precipitation, it can fall less. Here I would point to some limited use of such models to help identify damage. The damage was largely established, as I heard. I think there is a rapid decision-making in place, not a complication with all these methodologies, which farmers are probably not going to be very happy about, especially if there is any additional fulfilment of small, demanding forms. I would advise, after I have listened attentively to one and the other, if I say so, and read the reports of the various committees so as not to go by the government or any of its parties to this official arrogance, in the sense that the proposal must come from the government, but to go along the path the government has been walking on for a while, so as to amend the law proposed by the proposed Sok. Surely it can be changed by the majority you have at your disposal so that more or less you can sell it as your own if it is a problem of marketing. That's what I'd say. You know that sometimes a lot goes on in this house, but sometimes not, the opinion of the secretariat for legislation. In this case, the Secretariat did not have any constitutional comments and observations of a systemic nature. It is said that the law after this wage "drinks water"; it had some principled comments. In short, this case is ripe for decision. I therefore suggest that this unnecessary game is not to the detriment of farmers, but that we go from article to article and decide the matter as is decided when a law is amended. I think that another type of rescue or delaying the resolution of this, but with everything that this law wants to bring after this widespread or, as I would say, complementary to the methodology, I would say that it simply does not bring what we need in this situation. However, I am in favour of this, if it is indeed in line with the European approach, that such methodological approaches, bases, records and so continue to be used for a comprehensive rescue year later. This time let the government take the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Comrade Gez Juban wants to explain his different position with a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u210	Yes, Mr. Peterlet. Mr. Peterle, it is dry because there is no rain, and it is as bad as the temperatures are higher; and it is greater on the pebbles of the soil. Various plants, agricultural, ornamental and all other suffer from drought, more when there is a greater shortage of water, less rain, and nothing when there is much rain. This is the whole story, and this story is built into government law. I didn't hear in this House, maybe it happened when you weren't in it, that anyone would attack a colleague of Sok or read to him, I don't know, negatism or anything. Our parliamentary group even said at the time of the presentation of the law, it was good that it had happened, that it had encouraged the government, that it had introduced a law and that there was a law that incorporated elements that had been proposed at the Radgon Fair, which talked about a more precise and fair distribution, because there was a lot going on in the census, from the experience of last year, and that this was how funds were allocated. The list runs until 20 October. When the census is reclassified and the allocation of funds is prepared, it is time to consider whether the law of colleague Sok with amendments is worth considering, since in the end a similar text will happen, as if we were to consider the combination of the law and amendments tabled or the pure text of the government proposal. And we've decided to propose this second solution, so please don't encourage us to interfere and we don't want to give agriculture anything. Yeah, I'm running a countdown. As far as the stories on agricultural aid are concerned, one way or another. Remember last year when Mr Smurf went from one parliamentary group to another and talked about what will happen to the 3 billion offered by the Bajuk government because it will not solve the problems of drought in last year. Then we passed a law that was built up by all those who wanted to find themselves in this law, to create the amount that was created. Comrade Jerovšek, who did not carry out the law? Don't say things that never happened, and that's a lie. The law was not implemented by just one government, and this was last year until October 31st, it was said in last year's marriage, 4.6 billion, I think. The same government has adopted a decision of 3 billion. Go take a look at all the documentation back and just that difference has to go away this year and we also said in our explanation that, given that this backlog of funds from last year come at this time and still have to come, there is one mitigation of the situation created by this year's drought, that of course people can tolerate this law being passed, one or the other. We stand for each other for the reasons that I have stated and that we will come to an amount and a solution that will be built in. "Discussual" is a solution in one and the other. Around the amount, around the share of payments in this year and in the following year. I believe that there is a need for a second part of the funds to be provided at least until the spring seed and so on, which we can agree on. But it would be good if we didn't talk too much about stories from the past, because we get to these discussions as they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u211	Before I give the floor, however, I would ask that you do not disturb your colleagues, especially with the conferences just ahead of them, because I do not think that this is respect for the speaker. Colleague Sok, colleague Jerovšek, colleague Peterle and colleague Rokavec applied for the replica. I would just like to warn you before we go to the replicas to discuss a bill for which the committee has proposed not to adopt it. I suggest we focus on this discussion. In case the National Assembly decides otherwise, it will have to meet the parent committee in one way or another and prepare amendments for the second reading. I suggest we stay out of these frameworks. A colleague of Sok, a colleague of Jerovšek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u212	I'd like to replicate Mr. Juban. When I introduced this law, I took a close look at last year's magnetograms. Here I could read your statements last year when the law was passed in Parliament on 30 August. On August 30th, it is said that you have submitted nine Members or eight Members with you before August 30th. Nevertheless, you have seen the government slow down, and the magnetogram says that 10 billion is the minimum limit to be provided for aid after drought. When I proposed this law, I overlooked the fact that they were on the electoral side last year. Last year they were on the electoral side, and this year there is no election, and apparently you forgot a little about the voters in Prekmurje who are most affected by this catastrophic drought this year. Mr Peterle is quite right to say that, under this law proposed by the government, the minister will only determine and draw some geographically rounded areas. We do not need to be taught that the drought depends on the temperature and the amount of precipitation. If you look at the report of the Institute of Meteorology for July and August, you will see that in July there was less rainfall in the affected areas than last year, and in August there was less, and in some cases the same as last year. You can also read that temperatures were two to three degrees higher on average than in the last period. We used all of this when we assessed, on the basis of the inventory of the agri-economic chamber, that the damage would be close to 19 billion, at least as it was last year. However, you can also read in the report of the Meteorological Institute that the Institute is not qualified to accurately determine the amount of precipitation. The Institute's report states that in order to make such a map, the geographical map to be adopted by the Minister only when the law is passed would require at least two radars in Slovenia, which would cover the entire area in Slovenia accurately, and then, on the basis of the radar image, could determine the amount of precipitation in each area. I once replied to this that only the amount of precipitation is not mercurial, because it is necessary to take into account what said by my colleague Peterle, the pedological composition of the soil and, of course, the inclinations. It is not equal to 300 millimetres of rainfall in Haloza or in Slovenian Gorica or in Ptujsko Polje. These are essential differences. If that is all you will take into account, then, of course, such a law will be made that will bring great differences. They'll get one, the other won't get one. The European Union's guidelines, however, say that the most realistic assessment is the one made on the property itself. This is actually what the agricultural - forestry chamber does for us. They have enough experts, they also have a sufficiently distributed network and they have done so. I don't know why we, at the same time, should be setting up a civil society chamber, inventing new principles and passing them, saying that we have established a way of enacting and enforcing them. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is for my understanding of making fog and not recognizing the actual situation in Slovenia at this time in the agricultural field, if I do not use the word disastrously, let me at least say extremely bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I am replicating my colleague Juban, who has named me as an apostrophe, even though I have not yet entered the debate. However, I believe that his criticism of me was that I proposed and expected that this important debate would also be attended by the Minister. And Mr. Juban, you were wondering who didn't enforce the law. In my procedural performance, I mentioned the notorious fact that Minister Kopač, which comes from your party, stated before the television auditor that last year's law you proposed would not fully realize that it would not be implemented. This is said to have publicly opposed the implementation of the law in force. In fact, I am surprised, and I am quite disappointed by the duality, which was also the case when a colleague of Sok quoted last year's justifications for these same authors. I agree that this year's drought is also catastrophic and that it is not too fast to adopt this law, especially since I have now revived the memory that this was proposed more than a month earlier last year. In fact, I also wonder, colleague Juban, whether you consider it justified for farmers to recognise aid as a natural disaster, to verbally recognise this right only at a time before the elections, when it is not an electoral year, and to remain carefree of their problems. I don't think it's fair that a fundamental disaster that has happened and has serious consequences, we have to see, no matter what year it took, whether it was an election or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Mr Juban, look. You can tell from the magnetogram who said something. I remember a Member whose name starts with A, ends with C, but I'm not quite sure it's Mr Tonet Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec wants a word, then there are two more replicas, a colleague of Vebra and a colleague of Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I would only tell my colleague Juban that his persistent claim that only one government has broken the law is not true. He was also violated by the current government, and no matter which party someone is proposing to us to be honest. The fact is that this year's state budget did not have a specific heading on how the state will ensure full payment of this year's drought. If there were no such drought in this year, because we know on the Committee on Agriculture how many times the Ministry asked how this issue would solve because the funds were not provided, it would be a big question whether the government or the Ministry of Field would fulfil this legal obligation. I think that's a key question. We also know what was mentioned today. The Ombudsman has repeatedly said publicly that he somehow does not feel responsible for the implementation of the laws if they exceed the financial obligations in the budget. I think that's the key issue. The key problem is money, and the priority is what the state is committed to. That's the key problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Colleague Weber and his colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u220	I would like to refer to my colleague Sok, who claims that the agri-agricultural chamber carried out a survey of the damage to crops by property. I can safely say that the agri-land chamber has not carried out a comprehensive review of the consequences of the damage caused by drought, storm and flooding. Therefore, the information referred to in the law is unrealistic. This is also a fundamental problem why we are even discussing these funds today, which are not really based on a real assessment. There are documents that asked for an opinion in writing and alerted the agri-agricultural chamber in certain areas to indicate how these procedures are taking place, whether we start them ourselves, what it has done, in fact, there has not been an answer, not in writing, but even less so that there are analyses or assessments of damage on the ground itself. Thus, the data on which this law is actually based on obligations, financial obligations, are unrealistic. Even after this wage, I think it is necessary, however, to listen to all of the proceedings that are under way today and are designed precisely to produce as realistic a picture as possible of the damage that has occurred.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u221	The last from the list of replicas, Comrade Juban, gets the word after him, Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u222	Comrade Jerovšek, it's not true. At no time did I say and object to the damage done to agriculture caused by the drought. Don't talk about me objecting to it. It is only a procedural matter which Mr President rightly pointed out to define whether we are dealing with the law of colleague Sok with amendments or just a government proposal. In view of the fact that the census will not be carried out before 20 October, we were called by the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Murska Sobota and asked to mediate with the government to extend the deadlines of the census, since they are not in a position to carry out the census at that time. At the same time, the same district unit in Murska Sobota said, "Come on, support the government proposal because it's more assigned." Regional unit of the agricultural - forestry chamber. But it is true that each part can function in its own way and, of course, the top of the agricultural chamber in its own way. Comrade Rokavec, don't say things that aren't real. The law says 4.6 billion in 2000. And don't say it's not like that. But I suggested that we not argue about what was and was not, because then we come up with things that are that way or that are different. Last year, the agricultural programme was not implemented. Not the law either, but let's just leave it. Even two government conclusions were on this subject for 3 billion. But we wouldn't have thought of that. We are considering a procedural proposal, and in time both matters are coming to an end. As far as geographical areas are concerned. These are the areas cleared by precipitation and were also included in the marriage last year. The Ministry supported that the area where precipitation was found to have been much more than in the best years in Pomure was not considered to have been affected. And it's a positive contribution to the law. Do you want everyone to get the same amount of damage that they described, whether it was or not? Gorenska has over, I don't know, 1,600 litres per square metre or vegetation period of two thirds or half of what is more than in the best years in the drylands in Slovenia. It is understandable, however, that this year's proposal contains five areas, which is more accurate, based on all of the things you are talking about, including the ability to absorb soil, mud, which behave differently. This is contained in these areas. And it's a positive addition to the law. Those who will implement it will also make the allocation of funds more fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u223	Comrade Sok wants to replicate his colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u224	Just for a little while. Dear Ambassador Juban! If the agricultural - forestry chamber in Murska Sobota has indeed said that the government law is better, because it brings much smaller funds, and even under certain questions, and if - and according to some instructions, which will only be adopted, then I would suggest to Prekmurje farmers that they replace this chamber by a rapid procedure, because something about it does not "chies", that is for sure. You have repeatedly mentioned that last year the government did not fully enforce the law. Yeah, how could we, because we had an election in October! After all, a new government was appointed in November. It is said that the government should not have been able to carry out further procedures last year, which would go beyond its competence, since it was able to carry out only certain tasks, not all of them, from the elections onward. So you're forgetting we had an election. I don't know why you keep saying this over and over again that the government didn't execute. I want you to explain to me because some of you are referring to the damage assessment and so on - so we could go now for a long time and discuss how it is actually possible to come to a real damage assessment if that is even possible. I don't believe it. Once again, the best estimate of damage is an estimate from property to property. And the commission in Gorenjska who would have estimated that damage had occurred must not have been trained by such a commission, for there was more rainfall there. If there were more rainfall, there was no damage due to the drought; it could be that the damage was caused by too much rainfall, I don't know. The European Union guidelines say that the most realistic assessment is the one made on the property itself. And there's something else about this law that the government is proposing. It says that the damage is reduced by unimplemented agromelioration measures. Did you read it in here? I'm asking you, what measures? By what procedure will this damage be reduced, however, when the farmer from Prekmurje has given me the decision of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which does not allow him to make a fence around the orchard, nor does the administrative unit in the municipality where he resides allow him to infuse his surfaces and to protect his crops from frost with a rescue system. But he did have a percentage of the damage. But this debate still awaits us. We will submit this to the government when we consider its amendments or its proposal. I would really like you to answer this question as one of the proponents last year and as a great advocate of the dry law. Some other Members, I said earlier, are sitting in this Parliament, which last year had quite a critical view of the government. How, then, did you come to an estimated 10 billion last year? At the end of the day, there were 8 left, but your request was 10. How did you calculate that? Who helped you get this information? I'd really like to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u225	Before I give a chance to make a procedural proposal or a question of mags. Kramberger, let me tell you that they have been declared in writing, i.e. without restriction of the debates, colleagues Rokavec, Ašič and Jerovšek, and colleagues Mamić and Drobnič have been restricted to the debate. Now you have a chance to make a procedural proposal, did you say? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! So far, I have listened carefully to this debate, which took place both between the bill-maker and last year's bill-maker. If we continue to do so, I hope that we will not adopt this law at all at this meeting. Our committee has adopted certain conclusions in Radgona, and I hope to state that these conclusions were well-intentioned, which is also the point; they were essentially adopted by acclamation, both by members of the coalition and the opposition. The government may have missed just a few days from the time we tied her up. This is said to have been a political move now that we were just ahead of the law, the same thing happened last year as the opposition did then one such step, if I say so. I would suggest, Mr President, that we decide as soon as possible on the proposal for a decision by the working body, because only then will we be able to see where we are, and then we will actually begin to literally discuss matter itself, whether we will discuss the proposal for a law tabled by colleague Sok, or whether we will discuss a government proposal. It is also sad that we have not been in the previous term, even on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, and also in this mandate, we have repeatedly discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and have committed ourselves to asking the Government to come to a system law on the basis of which such and similar elementary disasters could be resolved. It is said that we have been enacting 14 intervention laws in the last ten years, and it is obvious that we will have to adopt one more before we reach the system law. Mr President, I would like to ask if it is possible for us to conclude this and for those who want to explain their voice as to how they will be defined in the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, and I think that we will be able to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u227	I don't mean to embarrass you, but you didn't make a procedural proposal. It is not possible to stop the debate now that the colleagues have been notified to it. We have already heard the call to try to discuss as much as possible and, above all, to limit the debate to a proposal for a decision. I propose that we have a debate in order. Once again, for information: colleagues Rokavec, Ašič, Jerovšek, behind them colleagues Mamić and Drobnic. If there are no other debaters, we will decide today on the proposal of the parent labour body not to adopt the law. You had a different proposal, mag. Kramberger?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u228	Yes, thank you very much. Then I would suggest or ask my colleagues to cancel the debate so that we can decide on my procedural proposal, because obviously the President cannot ban the debate from his colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u229	However, I do not think that we should take advantage of these options by means of a procedural proposal or by means of this institute, although this is a very well-intentioned move. If one of the colleagues does not want to discuss it, he will say it himself, perhaps it would be right to say it again, we are deciding on a proposal for a decision of the parent working body. I think it is in the interest of the National Assembly to adopt as soon as possible a law that will be enjoyed by the majority. So let us take a decision on this bill as soon as possible. So there are five of them who are registered for the word. First, my friend Rokavec. You want a word? You want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. I never think I've stolen too much time from this national council. However, I would like to express my disagreement with the proposal for a decision of the parent committee, the Infrastructure Committee, where, despite the fact that the Committee on Agriculture had asked the government at the Radgon Fair to submit the Government's law to the September meeting of the National Assembly on 25 September, when we started this meeting and despite the fact that the applicant in some way might have been too hasty and had introduced a law that was somehow a copy of last year's law. But I will support the proposal to adopt a law at this meeting, because it is precisely because of the distress of the people affected by this year's drought that it is necessary to act as soon as possible. If we are righteous, we can look last week at how quickly the government could act and how quickly the National Assembly could adopt such an intervention law, the guarantee law for insurance coverage of air carriers. Thus, in this case, when the government has also announced that it is possible to amend the law tabled in the parliamentary procedure by a fellow Member, Mr Sok, there is no reason why the national assembly could not adopt the law already at this meeting. I am sure that if the decision of the National Assembly is different, the National Assembly will show little wisdom, little wisdom, regardless of the fact that in some ways some have tried to find political points here as well. I propose that I conclude the debate, and we decide as soon as possible, by rejecting the proposal of the decision of the parent committee and by preparing the appropriate amendments and considering and adopting them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Apologize first to Mr President of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Kramberger. I might even take his advice, but if his fellow Member is not there, then I think it's also right for me to answer. I've dropped a few reasons for replicas, and with these, I could also use principles. I can tell Mr Peterlet that I met in the fact that I am not Anderlič and I am on A and C, and I am probably among those signatories to last year's law, which also this year's proponent in some way called on us to consider how we will act in this law. I will briefly say - there is a lot of similarity between these two laws, the reasons are exactly the same, there is a lot of difference in why last year it was necessary to adopt this law in this way, and this year perhaps it is not necessary to assess that we do not yet have enough good information on what kind of law we should also adopt in the final text. Last year, we must be aware, as you all have already said, of the elections, not only because of political image and political points, but also of the fact that the October elections were held, that in September Parliament did not work fully by the end of September, and that, to a large extent, such a law could be adopted by January of last year. This is a fact, because all the procedures concerning the elections, from the appointment of governments to the government, to the beginning of the government's operation, would probably lead to the question that, in January, such a law would also be on the table. Personally, I cannot accept this law at all for reasons which no one has ever mentioned here. First of all, I think that the proposaler has left the area of the Brežica agri-majority chamber, which covers the Posavje area. At least there's no sign of him in that preliminary table. Secondly, I think the preferred damage after the drought is because I can tell you that the final estimated damage after the flood in only three Posav municipalities is 413 million tolars. Under this law, 150 million tolars are earmarked for rehabilitation, which is less than 35 per cent or around 35 per cent, and it is not nearly possible to reach the point referred to in Article 4, which should be up to 50%, of course 35 to 50, but 150 million is very small. Zezebe in these three Posavina congregations was a billion 82. The estimated amount for the recovery of the consequences is 1.5 billion. That would have been enough, but I know it wasn't just Posavje. Of course, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the drought in Posavia can and of course is completely normal estimated significantly lower than in some other environments, because where the orchard, vineyard or field visit three times the hailstone, even before someone has had a really great deal of bad luck, even the cold, there is really no more damage to the drought, because there is simply nothing left there, or it was left so damaged that nothing could happen after the drought. I would remind the proposer, because several times he said where and why we needed the data, if not last year. That was the biggest flaw in last year's marriage. For this year, the applicant himself wrote that the detailed specification of the damage caused by the municipalities of the National Assembly would be delivered prior to the consideration of this intervention law at the meeting of the National Assembly when the municipal commissions definitively eliminate the census and the assessment of damage in the field. The applicant himself wrote this in his own explanation or in his assessment of the situation and in his assessment of the reasons for the adoption of this law. We can't go beyond that. This fact suggests that we wait for the final assessment and then adopt such a law that may be more just than it was last year, but certainly more realistic. I cannot vote in favour of this law either because I cannot write an appropriate amendment, which would at least approximate the 2nd Article in all three forms of remediation offered, of course in the amounts of the funds proposed here. Therefore, dear colleagues, I am among those who have always supported such laws in Parliament, especially in the absence of a system law. Among other things, we have had a system law in Parliament for many years, and I think it is ready for a second reading. It would be good to "take it out" and if it sucks to say no and prepare a new one. Every solution is better and we have it in Parliament. I think we've had it for four years in Parliament and we've had it this year, so we don't have to turn it all over to the government. We need to put this on the surface once and see if it's still good or not and if it's not good to say no and prepare something new. Of course, we must be aware that with unsolvable systems of protection against hail, with unresolved and poor irrigation systems, if we already have them, they are insurmountable and do not often have water when it is dry, we will still face such laws. I will always support them, for I come from such an area. But right now, for the reasons I was saying, I don't think the law can be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. Comrade Jerovšek is not in the hall, so we will skip him and give the word to our colleague Mamić. Five minutes, mate Mamić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. I would like to say hello to Minister Rope if he were here by chance because he was on the Committee on Agriculture and Food. When we explained to him how Mr Sok had calculated that the drought would cost us 11 billion and a half, or 11 billion and 150 million, he said that the government would make a better law. I told him if he was going to give us an analysis of how he'd get that number. It seems that only that Sok's marriage is divided in half and better is that if Mr Sok made a mistake for one billion, Mr Rob for half a billion. I don't know why, if members of the opposition ask a question, let's say how one number comes to be, whether it's drought or anything else, we never get anything but lines, in the end the number and the sum so much and so, and the government coalition says, that's good, it supports and the thing goes on. Even if they sent us this analysis later, we'd be happy. The government has unlimited options because it has a government coalition, that's understandable. But don't think about, let's say, this money, which is now projected to be 5 billion and a half, and for now it's going to be one billion, and I don't know how much, that there's not going to be any damage to the farmer from last year, that we're not talking about when this five and a half is going to end, if not eleven. Don't even think about taking care of rural demographics. This would certainly be a major contribution, given that the farmer is affected, that his products are destroyed by drought or hail or otherwise. As Mr Rokavec has already mentioned that there is probably no money, and I believe that there is no money, but if there is no money, then there is no need to boast too much about our economy running well. This is said to be an economy in crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamic. Last reported is Comrade Petty Officer. If there are no other debaters, we will move on to a decision. I invite colleagues and colleagues to join us in the main hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'll try to be brief. The marriage was filed, not because they wanted to get ahead of themselves, but because apparently all the signs were that the government would not be able to agree on the marriage. All those actions about last year's payouts, which is not serious, showed that nothing was going to happen. And that was the only real reason we rushed, not to upset anyone here. Apparently, it is also another law that is supposed to solve problems systematically. Given that there are no defined, nothing, financial amounts, it could be considered inappropriate because it is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, it could only mention sand in the eyes. However, I believe that this is a system law that will solve problems for the future, so that, as some say, we will be European-oriented. However, for the consequences of the drought and all these plagues that have taken place this year, we need an intervention law. At the time of this year's adoption of the budget, I have pointed out to Minister Ropa that, for this year, the mandatory reserves in the budget are half lower than for the previous year. I warned him whether this year you are expecting no problems in terms of captures, reptiles and so on. Since the budget was only less fiscally oriented, you can't come, you can't go around, you can't find shortcuts, I tell you, it's all coming back. If you look at the magnetogram, that's exactly what I warned him about. So it's a mandatory reserve. About the amendments. Now we're just saying what amendments are supposed to be that everything needs to be changed. The last time Minister Kopač was present, he promised that this Soko's law, because it was already in the procedure, would change completely, totally, and the letter would no longer stand as it is, and the address would no longer be the same. I took it as a performance myself, I tell you, nothing but a performance. This can be said with dignity, in which case, why marriage is not good. Why did this marriage come about again, why it appeared, why we did it because we felt that you had played confidence in people with all those things that started in August. [[...]] That's the reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for a decision given to the National Assembly by the Committee of the State Infrastructure and Environment, namely to take a decision not to adopt the proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, cold weather and storms in 2001 following a rapid procedure. Anybody want a word? Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, because we also have another body of the party at this time, I would ask you to ensure the presence of our Members, for a period of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u239	Well, let's be clear, I'll give you ten minutes off before making the decision, and then we'll move on, and that'll be 5:15. Is that okay? It's 5:20. At 5:20 a.m., we will continue the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u240	Colleagues and colleagues, please take their seats. Before we proceed with the meeting, I'd like to say the following. I think it's always better to admit a mistake than to repeat it. For the reason you mentioned it, mag. Vizjak, you shouldn't have made a vacation. This needs to be respected further in such proposals. The reason given was not the reason for the break. I was doing the wrong thing when I ordered it. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I told you the truth. You could be bluffing, but you could have a formal reason to take a break. I've told you correctly, you've assessed and judged correctly, and that's why I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u242	The National Assembly will first determine the presence in the Chamber and then decide on the Committee’s decision. First, we find out the presence in the hall! There are 67 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I am voting on the proposal of the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Assembly, which proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to take a decision that the proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, colds and storms with hail in 2001 will not be adopted quickly. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote! There are 72 colleagues and colleagues present. 44 supported by the Committee's proposal, 27 opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the Committee's proposal has been adopted. The proposal for a law is therefore not the subject of a procedure. There's something I'd like to say. All parliamentary groups have expressed the desire to get to the law as soon as possible, which will help the affected. I think that there is a possibility that we can decide on this either at a budget meeting, which is expected to be held perhaps next week or at an extraordinary meeting. We will certainly discuss this with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, so that the law drafted by the Government will be in the procedure as soon as possible. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - Proposal for an Inspection Supervisory Act. Please prepare the material for this. The general debate is open. The proposal for an inspection law is now on the agenda. Mr. Kelemina wanted the word. Would you like a word, Mr. Kelemina? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else want a word on the proposal for an inspection bill? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a discussion on the decision of the parent working body, which is: the proposal for an inspection law, the first reading, is a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a second reading law. Anyone want a word on this proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude this debate and put the proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 57 supported them, 2 opposed him. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body. We have one point of view. It was signed by a colleague of Lavrinc's. Anybody want a word? Comrade Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u243	More of a memory refresher. Everything I suggest is actually editorial, so to speak. I propose that the 9th point of the position be deleted because what is the substance of the 9th position is a special additional decision. I therefore propose that item 9 of the Committee's position be deleted. And, of course, I also propose an additional decision, which is identical in content.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Comrade Lavrinz. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the drafting proposal tabled by my colleague Lavrinc. We're voting on him. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present. 47 supported them, 4 opposed him. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] We have therefore adopted a complementary proposal for a position. We are now moving on to a full decision on the proposal for positions. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 45 accepted the proposal, 2 opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on additional conclusions. We have one, this is a proposal for an additional decision, Comrade Lavrinz. Comrade Lavrinc, would you like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Anybody else want a word? I find that no, so we are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. I'm putting it to a vote. There are 51 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 40 supported them, 1 opposed him. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that my colleague Lavrinco's proposal has been accepted. I also conclude this 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the questionable consequences. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes the postponement of the 13th item of the agenda, i.e. the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on matters of succession, to one of the future meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the urgent coordination of ratification procedures with the other parties to the Agreement. I suggest we wait for the government representative who has just joined us. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to speak in accordance with this proposal? None of the parliamentary groups would like to discuss it. The proposal to postpone the 13th item to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly is put to the vote. We are voting on the proposal to postpone this item to one of the next meetings. There are 53 Members and Members present, 45 supported by the motion for postponement, and 4 opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that we have moved this point to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly, as proposed by the Government, and with this point, I conclude this proposal. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement applicable to persons involved in the proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Neither do I.]] Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Does anyone want to discuss this proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on this. There are 60 Members and 55 Members present, supported by the proposal, and one opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 supported by the proposal, and one opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of Decision-Making of the Common Council of Slovenia - EFTA No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? They want the word of the parliamentary group? I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Anyone want a word on this proposal for a decision? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 51 supported them, no one objected. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. 53 were in favour, no one objected to the bill. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence and Decision on the Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss any more and since no amendments have been tabled to the bill before the opening of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Anybody want a word on this? [[Nobody.]] I put such a proposal to the vote. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 50 supported the proposal, no one objected to it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. 49 supported them. No one objected to him. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Malta on Mutual Coherence and Protection of Investment with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Nobody signed up for the word. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft law before the initiation of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Anybody want a word on that? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on this. There were 51 Members and Members present, 47 of whom were in favour of such a decision, one objecting to it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 48 of whom were in favour, no one objecting to the bill. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that it has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 18. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK ON COOPERATION AND INTERMOUNDIAL PROTECTION OF THE INVESTMENT. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Foreign Policy Committee who has considered this proposal wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I suggest that we, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I put this proposal to the vote. There were 53 Members and Members present, 52 of whom were in favour of such a decision, and no one objected to it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. There are 51 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 48 supported by the bill, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law is therefore fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - THIS IS FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON INTER-BUILDING AND PROTECTION OF THE INVESTIGATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat. On behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u245	I have remembered, Mr President, on our mission and when we have passed five ratifications as I think it might be possible to follow the new rules of procedure, I just want the word of a Member to be heard. I'd like to ask how it's typical that it took so long for a deal with one of our neighbors to get there so many years later. There were some special things here, because it would seem normal for us to accept something like this a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? Will the government answer the question raised by Comrade Peterle? He's a representative of the government. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u247	This is a typical agreement with one neighbouring country, which takes a high place between partner countries, in an economic exchange with which relations flow well after a mutual assessment. I must say that, as a government representative working in the legal field, I do not know the substantive reasons. As soon as we received this proposal, there was a signature. The agreement was signed in March this year during the visit of Minister Rupl to Vienna. And by normal procedure, he came into ratification. That's why we're looking at it today. There's no particular reason why we should know about this thing. However, we are signing or proposing it with the desire to contribute to even faster development, economic and other cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Anybody want to talk about it? [[Nobody.]] I put such a proposal to the vote. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 53 of them were for such a conclusion, no one objected to it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 54 supported by the bill, no one opposed it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this item on the agenda. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for nuclear safety and the State Office for the Security of the Czech Republic for the exchange of information. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? I guess not. That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I am putting this proposal to the debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I'm putting it to decision. Please vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. 51 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 of them supported the bill, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 21. Point of the agenda - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of Additional Protocol No. 6 to the Central European Free Trade Agreement. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee who has considered the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to hear the words of the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[Yeah.]] Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, the ratification of this Protocol is in some ways very interesting. I warn colleagues and colleagues that Article 1 states that this agreement, which was signed in Warsaw on 19 December 1997, is. This is the Protocol 11 referred to in Article 12 on certain quotas which have been in force since 1 April 1998, which were abolished on 1 January 1999, and then definitively on 1 January 2000. I would like to ask the government if it can explain why it is only today that the National Assembly ratifys this agreement and how the Republic of Slovenia has acted on this basis so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? Please, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you. It doesn't make sense to ask a particular question, because there are only representatives of the Institute or of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who won't say much about the content, because this agreement didn't arise mainly in their house, but this house is the one that puts the crumb on the package. I wonder why there is no need for any other ministry to contact us or especially think of the Ministry of the Economy, so that we can really ask him what is going on with these matters. I know that there has been a lot of debate on this subject in each round about how agricultural products are, who represents someone. And now we don't have the opportunity to ask anyone anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'd like a government representative to explain, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u253	This Agreement has been provisionally applicable since 1 January 1998. So I can answer Mr Bajuk's question, so that these further liberalisations, where it was said that in 1999, this was done through temporary use. However, I could not answer the question why it is only now in ratification. Our ministry actually prepared it when it was signed and translated and verified, everything, including the proposal, and it forwarded it to the proposalr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] That is why I conclude the debate. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft law before the opening of the hearing, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Anyone want a word on this proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. There were 55 Members and Members present, 43.7 opposed to the proposal. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Therefore, we can now move on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. I put this proposal to the vote. There are 56 Members and Members present, 45 of whom were in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the agenda - Third defence proposal of the bond law. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. We'll wait for the government to join us. I'm sorry, I missed you, so I apologize. You want a word? Please. Once again, I'm sorry I missed you. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Government included in the proposal for a third-reading law all amendments adopted by the National Assembly in the second reading. There are no other additional proposals or amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with a representative of the Internal Policy Committee? [[He does.]] President Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. Although there was a third treatment, as the report shows, the code had a great interest on the one hand. But it was mainly 355, so I'm simplifying the matter. Article 355 provides for a short limitation period, a period of one year, and for which amounts or liabilities this period shall apply. After a lengthy weighing, and not so short a discussion, we finally held it for the first time on 13 September and then reopened it the next day, the Committee proposed or adopted two amendments to Article 355 and did not adopt the amendment of the four groups of Members. In particular, it is that all experts have assured us that the problem of RTV Slovenia or subscription - or now it is called a contribution - is not regulated by this law anyway, because it is regulated by the law on RTV Slovenia and there will be no changes. However, in order to have an extension in case we need it, the amendment you have on the third page of the report has been drafted. This is to change point 2 by saying, "The television and radio stations for receiving programs" and we added a new second paragraph, which is actually the most important novelty. It is that we are in the dilemma of either maintaining a one-year limitation period or going on a longer limitation period for certain claims - the proposal was three years, otherwise it is five years - we have decided to resolve or offer a solution in the form of an amendment, which reads: "The statute of limitations begins to run after the year in which the claim has reached payment." Which means, for example, for these claims, which have "feeled" by the communists and others, because we are paying the phone and, similarly, that their claim begins, so let's say that the creation of January of this year begins to run out of time only one year from January of next year. In this way, and he gave his consent to say so, including the government representative at the time, we have found some kind of Solomonic solution, if that is not too arrogant a word. At the same time, of course, it should be noted that it is a code that is very extensive, so we propose the adoption of an additional decision to authorize the State Assembly to authorise the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the drafter of the law, to prepare a copy and then publish the final edition and then publish such a code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u258	Thank you very much, President Lavrinz. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I give the full floor to the Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal of the Code. Anybody want a word? He realizes that he doesn't. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. The draft law is accompanied by three amendments to Article 355. If we accept the first one, the second one will become irrelevant. I'm opening a debate on the amendments. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude this debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 56 Members and Members are present. There were 22, 26 against them. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. Therefore, we can continue to decide on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. 53 were in favour, 4 were against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we can move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. There were 49 of them for the amendment, two of them opposed him. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I'm asking the secretariat if the amendments have disrupted mutual compliance. [[It's not.]] We are moving to a full vote on the Code. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. There were 55 for, 1 against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed code has been adopted. We also have before us a proposal for an additional decision by the Internal Policy Committee. Does the President want a word on this? Anybody else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We will decide on the proposal for an additional decision. I'm putting it to a vote. Let's vote! There are 63 Members present in the Chamber. 55 were in favour, 1 was against the proposed additional decision. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we say goodbye and end the 8th meeting tonight, I inform you that we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m., which is the 28th item of the agenda, with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and then with the 23rd item and orderly order. Thank you. Please. You have a procedural colleague?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u259	Question, Mr. President. You told us to start tomorrow at 10 a.m., but we don't really have this paperwork prepared by the law enforcement department. Is it available yet? Maybe the proponents already have it, but we don't? I'm just asking if that's available when it'll be available? 5 minutes ago 10:00 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-10-03-SDZ3-Redna-08.ana.u260	Dr. Bayuk's colleague! If the business conditions for the hearing are not met, the national assembly will not be able to deal with them. If they do, of course, you will be able to obtain material early enough and then the National Assembly will be able to make a qualified decision. That's my explanation. This concludes or interrupts the session for today. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice night, everybody!
