ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Davorin Terčon, Dr. Michael Brejc, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Roman Jakič, Maximilian Lavrinc, Jože Jerovšek, Janko Weber, Bogomir Vnučec, Feri Horvat, Janez Janša, Alojz Peterle, Alexander Merlo, Franz Pukšič, Roberto Battelli, Yuri Malovrev, Marko Diaci from 3 p.m. to 12 p.m., Franc Čebulj to 11 p.m., Pavel Rupar, Franz Sušnik from 15 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. I find there are 50 Members and Members present. The assembly shall be concluded and may decide on a valid basis. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, so I welcome everything. Today's continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the discontinued 13th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a media law. To this end, the assembly will turn to the 8th item, a proposal for a law on public agencies, then to the 10th item, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on legal representation, and then to the remaining items on the agenda. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We'll have a debate, please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to return procedurally in the manner of yesterday's work in this National Assembly. Yesterday we received at the table of the government's harmonisation amendment to the aviation law. As soon as we received the amendments, we went to the vote. I would like to say on behalf of our Group that in Novi Slovenija we do not think that this was a harmonisation amendment to Articles 87, 85, 100, 101, 107, 126, part 155 and 158. After reviewing these harmonisation amendments, we have found that the government has reached out to the law itself with these amendments and some of these articles have been substantially amended by these amendments. It is also not a harmonisation amendment for the new 210a Article, as this article somehow translates the development of a national airport development programme into airport operators. So, I would like to - I don't know if we can do anything right now - but I would like to remind the leadership of this National Assembly that there is no rush in such matters and that we should give Members enough time to review these matters and then we can make decisions. We are confident in our parliamentary group that, with these harmonisation amendments yesterday, we have made a thorough effort to reach out to the aviation law and that this has been the case, I will not say, in our opinion, for fraud, but certainly for the wrong move of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, I deeply agree with you and I can promise you that in the future we will heed your warning. However, this was not a procedural proposal. Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Continue what our colleague Sok said. It is true that when we have considered this matter, we believe that it has actually been a major change. But I would like to know, from a procedural point of view, what can be done here. It is not enough for us for the president to say - make some kind of firm decision, if I may use that word - that something like this will never happen again. But it actually happened. I would suggest that our professional service do a thorough review, along with our group, and that we report on this at this meeting of the National Assembly and that we decide together what we will really do. We are convinced that, like us, we have not had the opportunity to review, and we have just voted in good faith that this is just some kind of harmonisation, a new version of everything, and this was not the case - we are sure that our colleagues have not had the opportunity to review it either. However, I would like this matter to be thoroughly reviewed, informed by the entire national assembly, and then decided together what and how about what has already happened. However, in advance, I am grateful to you for your offer that we must all pay more attention in advance, including the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. However, the National Assembly has decided on the harmonisation amendments. We also had business opportunities to suspend the meeting and require time to study also the harmonisation amendments. So, in short, in the work you are reading today, however, we have done and completed the agenda item and, by vote, we have adopted the harmonisation amendments. However, I politely ask - today we are at 13. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I would suggest to the National Assembly that we proceed with our work. We will hold the debate on the basis of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u6	If you'll excuse me, a replica, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u7	It's not a replica. Dr Bayuk and Mr Sok suspended the work of the National Assembly with the proposal to make procedural proposals. No, Mr Sok, no, you didn't make a procedural proposal, so we couldn't even decide on a procedural proposal. It is a matter of returning to the agenda item which the National Assembly concluded by vote in force. However, there is also a business commission, etc., for possible concerns. To work ahead of this National Assembly, I suggest you address these concerns to the relevant business committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u8	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u9	Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have not yet taken any position on the validity or invalidity of what we did yesterday. The only thing we have asked is for our joint services to scrutinise thoroughly what we have done, what we have voted on, and to inform the entire national assembly during this meeting. That was my suggestion. If we cannot make this proposal, we cannot make a decision, but I would ask for a procedural half-hour to consult with other parliamentary groups, as well as with each other, how to proceed, as far as this matter is concerned, as we consider it crucial. It is not only about validity, of course, that everything can legally be okay, as well as what happened yesterday with Article 5 of the Law of the Sea. I will also ask the President in due time about this. Thank you very much. Please put this to the vote and let us decide. If not, I ask for half an hour's rest that we deal with the Group of Members and with others, how and what to do further with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Bajuk proposed a procedural decision to the National Assembly, namely, if I should point out that the Secretariat for Legal Affairs in the National Assembly gives an opinion on the harmonisation amendments adopted by the National Assembly at yesterday's meeting, or that they may not exceed their name, i.e. the harmonisation amendment. Mr. Bajuk, did I just draw a conclusion? The proposed procedural conclusions that expert services should draw up an opinion on the content of the harmonisation amendments shall be put to the vote. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that Dr Andrej Bajuk's procedural proposal has been adopted and therefore we ask the expert services to draw up an opinion on the harmonisation amendments at the time of this meeting. Thank you very much. Let's continue with 13. It's a day's work. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, which will be held on the basis of a review of the amendments of 27.2.2001. This is a review of the amendments to the draft media law, second reading. I shall make two amendments to Article 2 for discussion and decision. The first amendment is proposed by Rudolf Petan, the amendment's government opposes, the parent's working body does not support it, noting that the amendment under 1 is equal to amendment number 2. This means that if the amendment under 1 is voted on, we do not vote on the amendment under 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. I'm putting my first amendment to the decision-making process. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It was 15, 30 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. This means that we do not vote on the amendment under 2 either. We still have a full vote to make. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It was 32 votes against 16. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 4. The first amendment is proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The Government and the mother's working body were not defined until the amendment. There is an amendment under two, the candidate of which is Victory Jelinčič. The government opposes the amendment, the mother's working body does not support it. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to give an explanation on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. In Article 4, point 1, the new fifth indent is to be added with the content which is written and shown in the amendment. The explanation is as follows. In this article, the legislator defines in quite detail the public interest, which is limited to meeting the needs at national level, meeting the needs of members of minorities, communities and others. It forgets that regional and local non-commercial media play a major role in the comprehensive media space and its contents in the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, the legislator does not refer to them as public interest, and the law goes on to demand enormously from these same media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the first amendment, which is proposed by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against 27. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under number two. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 26 to 25. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment was adopted under number two. We still have to vote on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 5. Amendment No. 1 is proposed by Rudolf Moge. The parent working body of the amendment does not support it, noting that the amendment is the same as the amendment number 2, which is not supported by the Government and by its parent working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u14	I'm withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u15	Amendment number 1 has been withdrawn, so I am putting an amendment of the Government under number 2. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u16	The Government's amendment states that the paragraph in Article 5 should be deleted, which states that the reason or purpose for the dissemination of programming content in a foreign language should be specifically defined or in a visible place. I believe that the Government's proposal here is controversial because, however, in the Slovenian space, it is necessary to establish a distinction or purpose for the dissemination of content in a foreign language to be properly marked, especially with subtitles, which was probably also the original meaning of this Article, the most justified reason why certain content in Slovenian media is also disseminated in foreign language. However, since it does not bring any particular complications and fateful consequences, it is certain that the amendment of the government will be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We decide on the second amendment to Article 5. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. Four votes against 52. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 52.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 56 votes in favour, none against. The vote was 56.) [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 9. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of Rudolph Mojet to the 9th Article, which is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Under 2 is the basic amendment of Rudolph Mojet. The amendment government does not support, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Under 3 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting first on the first amendment, namely the amendment to the amendment of Rudolph Moget. We're voting. 60 Members and Members present. 49 votes in favour, none against [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We move to a vote on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 43, 3 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 9 as a whole. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 11. The former is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and supported by his mother's working body. Another is also the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. It is also supported by the third amendment by the Government and its mother's working body. The same situation is the case for the amendment under order number four. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision and a vote on the third amendment. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been adopted under three. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment under four. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under number 4 has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 11 as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 12. The amendment does not support the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u18	I would only explain why the mother's working body does not support the government's amendment. The government amendment was created by a footnote that there is nothing fatal if there are no specified sources or funding methods when a particular medium is entered into the alert, it is only said when it is entered. The Committee considered that such data could be useful as they in some way complement the media's identity card and in some way define its nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 37. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 14 supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Article 14 and Article 15 are already interfering with the broadcasting agency or in the government's proposal to unite the broadcasting and telecommunications agency. We believe that the media law is sufficiently prepared and structured and we propose that in Article 14, the dictates of the basic article remain, as it does not seem to us that the typical media content to be transmitted to the broadcasting and telecommunications agency is then also the typical media content to be regulated by this law. If we read further in those articles, in accordance with Article 100, this agency is supposed to decide somehow and be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Information Society, for example, on the quality of the programme and on similar matters, on the complaints of viewers and so on. I think that this basic context, which belongs to the media law, should be preserved here. Otherwise, these media content is transferred and the law is largely incapacitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u21	Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. Mr. Mogue and Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u22	The Committee has followed the Government's guidelines and when Mr Tanko has spoken, voting on this amendment is essential for the whole law and for the drafting of the law. When the current government, the third government, withdrew the amendments that Dr. Bayuk's former government had adopted, then somehow it was designed differently by the sixth department, the broadcasting agency. If we accept the amendment of the government that is before us, then we will morally delete all the articles in Chapter VI. Thus, when we adopt this amendment or if we do not accept it as a result of the fact that we will have to decide whether we are going in one direction in the decisions on the other amendments, once we have taken this into account, that means whether we are going in one direction or not, whether we are going to bring the telecommunications and broadcasting agency together. The decision in this amendment also has a significant impact on the broadcasting law. That is why I think, Madam President, that a representative of the government would be one of the key issues in this law, even to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, then the government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The two interlocutors rightly pointed to the weight of this article, which, as a result, is actually carried through the entire law. If we decide to support the government's solution as one of the possible forms or even compromises in solving the so-called fate of the present broadcasting council, which, as you know, is being set up or appointed by the National Assembly. I believe that the solution proposed by the government is one of the best. It is true, however, that if we were not so rational in Slovenia that I do not say "clean" we could also choose another form, so that the present broadcasting world would be restructured into a separate agency. However, since we are meeting this moment, in fact this month, by establishing an agency at the new Ministry of Information Society, telecommunications and broadcasting agencies, if we decide to do so, the activities of telecommunications and broadcasting activities will somehow be merged. We will meet with a body that is in some way a restructured form of the current Transport and Communications Office, which has been working with the former Ministry of Transport and Communications or the Telecommunications Office, to say goodbye to the two worlds. One world that will deal with broadcasting space, another world will deal with telecommunications space. If the articles and if the dictatorship are correctly introduced into the telecommunications law, which is to be extremely careful, if these articles are also clearly demarcated in this law as they are, and if the agency is actually set up in this way as we see it now, it is said that the broadcasting council, as the consultative body of the future agency, will play a decisive role in the allocation of frequencies, in the monitoring, in the sanctions and infractions, in short, if it is obliged to give consent to a largely technical body, then this solution will be fine. I understand skepticism and it's understandable, and I understand my own concern. But, for example, if the decision is best at this point in the sense that we have one agency, but not two, as the end of the day, have many countries in Europe, then if this agency operates in a way that will be defined as it is, and if nothing changes in the future, especially in the very dangerous decision-making of the rapid procedure of the telecommunications law, then this solution will be fine. That is why I suppose it is right or why I think it is right that we support it and that we are very careful in the third reading and at the same time in the adoption of the Telecommunications Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Bozidar Zorko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u26	Dear Members and Members! Mrs Majda Shirca has actually taken half my things away from me or said half the things that are essential to this matter. In the process of making these amendments to the media law, a telecommunications law was being prepared at the same time. Since the Telecommunications Act provides for a telecommunications agency, we then sought the most reasonable solution at the initiative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and then the Ministry of Information Society to have as little administrative costs as possible in this whole area, but to provide an autonomous or independent regulatory body that will decide on the allocation of frequencies. We think this solution is a good one. This joint agency for telecommunications and broadcasting, as proposed in the law and as in the following additions through binding, should perform, if I say so, some kind of technical service for the broadcasting council, which we say in the law, is called a national assembly, which is also composed of people who are independent experts - you will see in the amendments how this is proposed later - and whose decisions are binding on the telecommunications and broadcasting agency. In short, the broadcasting agency, which performs this, say, substantive work, cannot make a decision over this, but does the whole technique, but also through frequency funding is provided, not only for telecommunications and broadcasting agencies, but also for the broadcasting world, and, very importantly, also for monitoring, which will work within the telecommunications and broadcasting agency, but for the purposes of this independent broadcasting council. I therefore propose that you accept this amendment, as of course any further amendments relating to the regulation of the functioning of the broadcasting world or of the agencies, because we will continue to meet with it through all or through many amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word and then Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you. I think that this decision, or this proposal by the government, has come very quickly, that it is somehow reckless. We are also skeptical of problems or this cover, rationalization. I think that after all these mergers, something else usually comes, an increase, not a rationalisation. Above all, I would like to point out that this proposal is about mixing or transferring decision-making on content, it is said, about media content, with simple, domestically speaking, forwarding. I think that these two things should remain somehow separate, proportionally separate: one under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and, I would say, under the authority of the broadcasting agency and the other under the competence of telecommunications. I think that this would make the matter better, more transparent, clearer and, after all, more effective. I think the point is that somehow there is no acceptable interference, I would say that it decides through the broadcasting and telecommunications agency, both on media coverage, on programming content, on, I don't know, complaints from listeners about the programme, and on the other hand, I don't know, on purely technical issues concerning the management of the telecommunications system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It is clear that there are two different approaches to how the country should work in this area. The solution we stand for in the Slovenian Coalition is that the nature of work is so different that it actually requires two different agencies. The argument that the government has so far possessed is more of a pragmatic character, if our space is small, it would be better to lower costs and have one agency alone, or two worlds. In order to reduce our skepticism towards this and to better understand your argument, I would ask if the government can provide us with an immediate analysis of what we are actually going to achieve with this, because this is an argument that at least I am very much interested in whether this is true - what actually happens, how much does the National Assembly decide for two different agencies, and how much does it take, or what does it actually save if we combine it, and we pay a second price that we will mix the nature of work in both agencies in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you. The Broadcasting Council, as set out in Article 104, shall take decisions on the issue and the withdrawal of licences. We shall take decisions on the granting or withdrawal of the status of the local regional and so on of the programme. It assesses the situation in the field of radio and television media. He gives the Director and the Agency opinions and so on. In short, if I paraphrase, the broadcasting world is a mental center that gives to others, it is called an agency that has technical competences that measure the frequency space that defines geographical and other technical parameters, I will say, decisions. In this sense, the fear that is somewhere present, as I understand, is exceeding. If the world has such a role as is now defined, if it controls, does the strategy, if it controls everything from ownership to content parameters, if it can give consent to what is local, what is regional, what is so-called profitable and what is not, the programme within the radio or television area, then no doubt there should be a fear that, like now, when the telecoms management, which in some way is handicapped, when it can make more technical decisions than mental ones, then there should be no such concerns. I therefore appeal once again to support this solution and we are actually careful with further introductions and applications of this into the rest of the legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. If we read Article 102, where it defines the tasks of the broadcasting agency, then they are transferred from the two indents of this Article 102 to Article 104, which is what it is, or has not yet told Mrs Shirca, while it is transmitted to telecommunications, for example, permission to carry out radio and television activities. Then it is transferred to telecommunications to address complaints by viewers and listeners regarding radio and television programmes, then to agree on a substantial change in the programming design and so on. Some content, which are typically media areas, is transferred from the competences of the broadcasting agency to telecommunications. I don't think these things belong in the telecommunications law. For this reason, we also propose that the media area remain rounded up within the framework of the media law, but what I said earlier, to the grave, say, as a freight forwarding, as a matter of telecommunications law. That's the key dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Government representative, Mr. Bozidar Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u36	Dear Members and Members! Perhaps just a few more words about somehow clarifying the doubts about the independence or independence of the world’s operation for broadcasting. Much later, on page 38, we will meet with Article 104 and the amendments of the government that we are proposing. One of these amendments says: "The Broadcasting Council consists of seven members appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia from among the distinguished experts." And then he talks about how the candidates propose, etc. It is just this and the powers of this world that are large enough to guarantee that, of course, this world will be an independent, independent regulatory body when it comes to a decision on the allocation of frequencies when it comes to essential decisions relating to the radio or television stations programme. The solution we offer to the joint agency is actually that this joint agency is watching over the whole technology, while the broadcasting world is, of course, watching over the substantive criteria or the content of all this. I understand this fear, because in the past, a lot of things have happened. However, I think that all the solutions that we are offering hereafter, in further amendments, are large enough to make this solution very useful. Some countries in Western Europe also know such a solution, and some of them, of course, have different ones. There is no uniform rule in Europe on how this should be organised. We think such a solution is more reasonable. About the costs. The state budget will save - at this point it is difficult to tell you exactly how much, because the broadcasting agency, for telecommunications and broadcasting, is obliged to finance the whole functioning of the world and the overall functioning of monitoring, which is very important in this matter. Decisions without monitoring implementation do not mean much, and implementation or monitoring of all of this must also be ensured. The entire cost will be financed by frequency, or if we are going to go completely alone, this must be covered by the National Assembly. I think it's a worse solution. The Broadcasting Council has already experienced, and also this year, the problems of financing its work, in particular the problems of financing monitoring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Bajuk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the government representative for this clarification. All I have to say is she wasn't convincing. Because finally, exactly what this debate is about today, like our colleague, the lady from LDS, has already reminded us. Here is one key decision that will actually affect what we will do in other articles of this law and what this agency will be like. So far, I have not heard any positive argument why we should have one single agency, in addition to what you yourself mentioned at the outset, that this is some kind of greater rationalisation. But you're just telling me that you actually don't have concrete data, that you can't tell exactly, and the fact is that you have to monitor this world, whether it's in one agency or it's going to be two, or it's going to be different, in another agency, that it's going to have to do this thing. The only argument supporting this government proposal is that we do not yet have clear data on the basis of rationalisation. I therefore note that we do not yet have decisive arguments in the National Assembly why we would support the government in this area. We will insist on our position until we have some more convincing arguments in hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The Government's arguments do not convince us to support this amendment either. We remain in the fact that matters need to be substantively separated. This is said to be the media part of the media law and the decision on media content is made in the media law and institutions or in the bodies provided for in this law, while other content can be dealt with in other field laws, including, say, in the telecommunications law. The same is true, I would say, with an argument on rationalisation, these arguments are not acceptable to us or were not actually acceptable. That is, I would say, just a notion that it will be more rational, that it will be more comfortable and cheaper. In fact, this may not be the case. Our Group of Members will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u42	Just a short refill. In fact, we are talking more in the 19th century language, but we need to know that in the broadcasting system, the question is how much longer we're going to be able to perceive it through this kind of transmission, through the ether or cables that we're meeting with today, which is actually how the administration is doing, when it's controlling and controlling these kinds of communications. The fact that the radio frequency is far from the telecommunications area is, of course, somewhat doubtful from the point of view of the 21st century. Therefore, from this point of view, I would like to say that when telecommunications spaces expand to another activity, we will face digital, optical oxysa cables, pardons, in short, when we watch television on the phone, I think there would be fewer problems in this option of thinking when we now determine whether the agency is going under the Ministry of Telecommunications or Information Society or under another ministry. After all, the agency is a matter of government or government concessions. In addition, rationalisation is an issue that we discussed at the outset, as if the Agency were to double some jobs in terms of changing the current broadcasting council into a future agency. These are all those jobs that are now within the telecommunications or radio frequency management. We'd have a double job. Now, as I have said before, the solution is that the technical part which is now managed by the administration and would be easily vaccinated into a future agency with a mental part that the broadcasting world will, of course, be able to do so, which will have professional and other applications and which will, of course, also take care of the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Bajuk and then Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go, Dr. Andrei Bajuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shirtz, I am grateful for this explanation. But as for the century, I don't know if I'm 19 years old, but I feel bad because the 21st is still good. Look. This argument is also apparent, it brings something, and it is not really clear. It's not written anywhere that if we have two agencies, we have to double our jobs. We can have a job together. I would like to ask the representative of the government if you have also checked this possibility, because there are obviously arguments why there should be two different agencies. Why, though, if common services are necessary - yes, we can also have common services and also legally determine that we will not double things that are not necessary. I would like to ask the representative of the government if you are the possibility of some common services in both agencies, that we will not double things.Surely we will not propose such nonsense here, that we will do the same things in two different places here in Ljubljana or elsewhere in Slovenia. [[...]] If this is possible, we can certainly resolve it. That would be my answer to that argument. I'd like to know if you've considered this possibility and if you've come to the conclusion that joint services for both agencies are impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you. I'd only give a short replica. I used this terminology mainly to describe the problem of what it belongs to. Not so much for other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I believe that this proposal, which we have not been able to establish in either the previous government or the government, when Mr Sheligo was Minister, is that we have essentially worked two agencies and two jobs. The idea brought by the current government answers this question of yours - that things combine in some rational way. Of course, this brings a few unknowns, since each one is sitting or standing behind his own trenches. But I think it makes sense to compare these metaphors to centuries. What exactly is the point of these agencies? And the media and the phone and other data transmission systems are working, I'll say, through the same technologies. If we're talking about frequency spectrum, they work in, I'll say, the same frequency spectrum. To put it another way: when the printing technology was invented, I will say, the access to information has changed dramatically and culture has changed substantially. This is happening right now. But again, if we take the printing of books, when you take a hypothetical business job or some humanistic study, then you will treat it as something more than what is in the nature of Slovenian man, while this printing of publications is a normal economic activity. That's what's going on here. When we talk about the transfer of data to the public media, this is dealt with in this law when we talk about economic activity, it goes somewhere else. I think that, nevertheless, it is important to think that all of this is happening in the same space, that it somehow creates culture, and that, of course, where I consider the media and, finally, the technology, from this point of view, is the meaningful internal arrangements of agencies and the competences of this world to keep an eye on the content. That's why I think this model is cleaner than we thought before, or we had to make some compromises that have been going on since the '90s, that we had a world here, an agency elsewhere. This seems to me to be a better solution in spite of everything, and it answers exactly what you say is that the same things are decided on in one place and taken care of them from different angles. At least that's how I understand the design of this solution and will support it. However, I think it is important to be careful to protect within this agency the interest of what needs to be protected in the media, given the nature of their work and the definitions that we have somehow confirmed in these first articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The government's representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Of course, we have overplayed in preparing this part of the law a number of possible scenarios, from the original one where we had two agencies, this has been going from the very beginning of the drafting of the law to the one we are now offering. As I said in the introduction, this solution was only created at that time or only with the possibility of setting up a telecommunications agency, first in the Ministry of Transport and Communications and now in the Ministry of Information Society. The whole idea is this, of course, the technical means for the dissemination of programming content are changing. Technical resources, some new ones that have not yet been properly implemented, will become increasingly important. For this reason, it seems to us that this technical part of the spread is under a common cap. We have also overplayed the costs you mentioned, Mr Bajuk. I'm afraid with the exact calculations, I can't handle it. I argue, however, that the cost of operation is lower in the way we propose because it is a common technical means. [[This is particularly important in monitoring]] because it is also, after all, for the joint administration and for the whole joint administrative apparatus, no matter how big it is, which, of course, some such work of the agency, whatever it is, is being monitored. I would like to point out only one dilemma that we had when we discussed whether it would appear to have an independent broadcasting agency. By law, this agency has to have a world. The powers of this world are slightly different or otherwise defined in the law, such as those of the broadcasting world. These two worlds do not have the same function, in substance. And this proposed joint agency for telecommunications and broadcasting will have its own council, only by law, which will perform the functions prescribed by law. As an independent, independent body, the broadcasting world appears, as I said before, named by the National Assembly, which will deal with only one part, and for us, and therefore in the media law this world and the way the world is appointed and the work of the world is defined, of course, with an extremely important function for us. Therefore, the substantively separate functioning of the telecommunications agency and their telecommunications council is from the broadcasting council, which will deal with all these tasks, as it is said. So appreciation or rationalisation, if you want, is - at this point, honestly, I can't tell you exactly, for so many tolars; but we don't, because, of course, it's also from development and also from equipment, and also from all other technical things, which will, in particular, be "monitoring" programs, monitored, depending on whether it's, say, a million or it's 5 million or it's some other amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much again for your word. If we read Article 102 of the law which speaks of the agency, there are at least four items, four indents of the law on the media and not the law on telecommunications or I don't know where. For example, "is accompanying and exercising professional control over the consistency of broadcasting of radio and television programming content by means of this law under an international treaty that binds Slovenia; conducts a public tender procedure for the selection of radio and television broadcasters; gives consent to a substantial change in the programming design of a radio or television programme; addresses complaints by viewers or listeners regarding a radio or television programme...". These are totally typical media content, which is part of the media law. Those first provisions that we went through, they kind of say it and they define it, and now exactly these things, I'd say, "monitoring," say, but we're transferring it to the telecommunications area. I don't think this has anything to do with telecommunications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the representative of the government and also to the intervention of colleague Školč. I think we need to be aware of what we are actually deciding here. Information society - it is true that I live in the 21st century, but I am one of those people who, if they have computer problems at home, have to wait for their daughter to come and fix it, I can admit that. But if you're all such experts, congratulations. But what worries me most is that - I am sure that colleague Školč, as former culturally responsible, will understand well - that we must not create such an agency in our national administration, in which the essentials in this area will be in some sense, let it be so far from being subordinated to so-called engineering and technicians. This is one of the key problems that I live in this society of ours, and that's exactly what we don't want to say once and for all the things that they are. The essence of this law is also to create the possibility that we will slowly create a different media atmosphere here in our space, which will really help our democracy to have a slightly different experience. Finally, the essence of democracy is a properly informed citizen or a citizen who is able and able to make decisions in the same way as he will. This requires transparency in this area, which is so far, unfortunately, we do not yet have as much transparency as we should have. That these essential things will be decided in some subjugation of technology or technology itself, I am deeply concerned. This is one of the greatest concerns that the 21st century brings to us, and this is some constant subordination of the essential issues of technology itself. I think that it is precisely because of these arguments that my colleague, School, has said as well as I myself, that it is imperative that we continue to discuss how we are going to put this thing on the table. Because finally, what happens if the world of one agency is in conflict with that? Who decides that? How do you decide? How do we get rid of the independence of one world or another in this single agency? Who will be subordinated to someone for any questions? This is not yet resolved in the marriage. But if I've missed it, I'm asking you to explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u56	Of course, I agree with these dilemmas, and I think that we need to think first of all about the solutions that speak about the competence of this world for broadcasting and the competence of the national assembly, when it calls, I will say, not the engineers and techniques to think about these things. So these things are going to be, no matter what the ideal solution is, still, I'm going to say, the object of some kind of confrontation. Here it seems to me that we are primarily looking for a neutral solution, at least from my point of view, which allows everyone to have equal and decent access to these technologies, and, of course, to realize this plurality, which Mr Bajuk is talking about, in the end. But I stopped by mainly because I think Mr Tanko missed one thing. In this structure, which is now being offered by the Government, an amendment should also be read in order to delete this 102nd Article, which is legitimately disputed. Thus, if we accept both this amendment and the subsequent article 102, his opposition will fall. In fact, the government has proposed that paragraph 102 be deleted and, of course, this agency will no longer carry out these, these engineers, to use this illustration, will no longer judge things to discuss hypothetically, say, humanists, and I would not like to set up this conflict, because it seems to me that technology is also the one that creates culture. We can't understand each other here, but in fact, history is such that, in fact, yesterday we discussed genetic technology, and these are certainly more unpredictable and dramatic changes that will affect culture than those where we can actually predict, in fact, the incredible dissemination and availability of information, regardless of the limitations that this law has or does not have. In any event, the construction essentially solves Mr Tank's problem by deleting this 102. These other dilemmas will remain open in various ways, both for you and for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u57	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u58	I'd like to answer Mr. Skull. I know very well that Article 102 is deleted. This also removes the four contents that I have previously read. And those four contents are likely to be transmitted because they are not transferred to the Broadcasting Council or anywhere else, probably into the Telecommunications Act. That makes sense. And before that, I said that I didn't think that the content of that marriage was relevant. And that's why this discussion is, let's say, a reference to content, let's say, a expedition, a legitimate one. Here I think that this is a dilemma, and therefore we also propose that this basic scheme of law remain the same as it is, and may perhaps be supplemented in some other details. That's the point of what I wanted to say right now, and also, which is the essence of all of my discussions so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Mr Tank for this warning about what the deletion of Article 102 really means. I would now like to ask the government, the representative of the government, to fully explain. By deleting Article 102, in which these areas are specifically exposed to these essential tasks, where we will put them at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Yes, we are proposing the deletion of Article 102, which is not automatically transposed into the telecommunications law, but which is made sense because it refers to the tasks of the telecommunications agency. However, I think it is essential to read Article 104 and all the additions that we propose to Article 104 on how to regulate the independent functioning of our broadcasting world. The 104th Article is in fact the one who is supposed to provide - and we claim to ensure - that the broadcasting agency or the broadcasting world can function truly, as we say, as an independent expert body - this is in the amendment to the 104th Article - appointed by the National Assembly. And that seems to us to be a big guarantee that, according to the contents of the board, this area will be properly regulated. The rest, technical issues around frequencies, the division of the frequency band and so on, are, of course, regulated by the telecommunications law and are within the competence of the telecommunications agency, but as far as our radio spectrum is concerned, only technical competences, not substantive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, then Dr. Andrey Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. From Article 102, paragraph 104, shall be transposed, I believe, only two indents from the eleventh or twelveth indents. Those four, which are typically material, media, are deleted by deleting Article 102 and must then probably be transferred elsewhere. While paragraph 104 of Article 102 is being transposed only, I do not know, "proposed to the Minister of Development's strategy, he proposes more detailed criteria" and so on. This is all that is being transmitted and all the other content, which is somehow related to the introductory articles of the Media Act, disappears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u66	I'm sorry to have to come by again, but I didn't notice that a government representative would answer my previous question. If you allow me, representative of the government, I have not heard your answer to the question of what will happen if one of the worlds has different views on a particular problem, who will decide on this law as you suggest - in your vision, how it will actually work. You have spoken very convincingly about the independence of this world, but the question is whether or not there is some kind of subordination of this world to the technological solutions that the neighbouring world will represent, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u68	When it comes to frequency allocations, the decisions of the Broadcasting Board shall be binding, as it also states, on decisions or decisions subsequently formally issued by the Agency. So it's not about which world, or the telecommunications agency or the broadcasting world, it's, I'll say, harder, but it's about sharing work. The Board of the Telecommunications Agency has no power to assign frequencies in the substantive decision on radio spectrum. These substantive decisions shall be taken exclusively and its decisions shall be binding on the broadcasting agency and shall be taken exclusively by the broadcasting board.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 14 and moving on to a decision-making process. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 38 to 14. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will make further decisions on Article 14 in its entirety. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 38 to 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that Article 14 is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 15 of which the Government is proposing, its mother's working body supports it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. There were 39 votes in favour, 10 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 11. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that Article 15 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on one amendment to the 15th, 17th, 64th, 78th, 79th, 80th, 83rd, 91st, 145th, 149th and 158th articles of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the parent working body of the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes to 9. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two more votes to take, namely two articles in full, because this amendment is the only one that has been tabled in the two articles. And these are Articles 91 and 149. We are moving on to a decision on Article 91 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 10. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that Article 91 has been fully adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 149 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 10. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 16 of which the Government is proposing, its mother's working body supports it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will make further decisions on Article 16 in full. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 16 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 17. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposer of all three amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would point out that, despite the fact that the mother's working body supported all of this, the adoption of the first amendment would have caused potential founders great problems. I understand here, of course, we are listening, perhaps the ministry, that it goes very well to the demands of journalists, that it is necessary at any moment to have an opinion of the assets on this programme design. But as far as this first amendment is concerned, it means that if someone starts setting up a medium and collects all these papers, they must actually already have an employed team, regardless of whether it's yet to be clear whether they're going to raise money or whether it's registered, etc. And, of course, get the right opinion of this team so that it can even go to the founding. I think it would suggest that, for rational reasons, this should be rejected and that the government should simply reject it until the next reading, since this article, with the eventual admission of the other two, has only added to the changes, consider whether it is necessary to have an opinion before the creation of one, such as a newspaper or another. I think it's stupid. Since, last but not least, if someone collects money and ideas for it, it is not necessary that they already have a team that would give him an opinion that they can lead the registration process. In short, the inflammation was too great. Thus, of course, later the founders of these newspapers, including the other two, will have a severe headache. But [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In the debate on the Committee this was true what colleague Školč said. He even said there that it was essentially this amendment "reliable self-government" if I literally quote it. However, the press society and others demanded that these amendments be supported because the government was aligned, even if one said so, with others concerned by this law. In particular, because they were constantly demanding that the remaining settlement, which already exists on public newspapers, was the first thing. So they had this right if they didn't accept this amendment. [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] Secondly, this amendment does not speak of any agreement, but it does speak of a consensus, which means that some right would be brought to mind if there was agreement. [[...]] But he's only talking about opinions. Because there is only an opinion here, but we were only opinions on the committee - so it was a majority opinion - to support, one would say, under the terms "what the journalists wanted" to be legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you. Dr. Bernick, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I agree with the comment made by my colleague Školč. However, I would like to ask what legal consequences may come from obtaining an opinion from the editor. This somehow suggests to me that it means some kind of property unionization, in that sense, some kind of ownership burden. And I'd like you to explain that to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. So, with all due respect to our committee, I have to say that I think my colleague, School, is right in this case. The first amendment requires something that is, of course, impossible to do. Take the example of the newly established regulation - there is no consensus or opinion, no consensus, no opinion, no new regulation, which is not yet established, because it is also a condition for us to set up an editorial office. I think that the second amendment to which we are coming is solving this issue because it says that "and attach the opinion of the editor on the proposed amendment or addition", in conjunction with Article 3, paragraph 17, which states that "a fundamental amendment or substantial addition to the programming design of the radio or television programme must be obtained by the issuer with the prior consent of the broadcasting agency", and is supplemented by this amendment, "and to attach the opinion of the editor on the proposed amendment or supplementation". So the content is right, journalists or editors give their opinion, but they cannot give it in the event that there is not yet one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Government representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u78	The thing seems really hopeless when you're setting up a new medium. But I think it's also possible to do things this way, that is, with some time delays you can solve. However, we can, of course, prepare a more appropriate solution for the third reading, which will define exactly what it means when it comes to changing the programming design and what it means when it comes to the creation of a new media. And the answer to the question of what the opinion is. The opinion, of course, is just an opinion, there is no obligation for any owner to take the opinion into account. The opinion is a moral institution, which is in law on the basis of the express request of journalists' representatives, and we believe it is right that this, in fact, moral institution is incorporated into the law because it is known by more or less of all European countries, in some way; it is true that different documents formulate such solutions, that it is not everywhere in the law, but everywhere in Europe is the status of journalists or the fallible conditions of journalists - I do not mean the physical working conditions, but the substantive working conditions of journalists - are somehow regulated in the direction of the greatest autonomy of journalists in their work, without restricting capital owners in their decisions. This is just an acquisition of Europe, because the media are not a classic product and the journalist is not a classical worker like a worker working on another product. However, this is not a restriction for owners, at least not formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u80	As far as this is concerned, I'm going to intervene one last time. Look, this request is illogical. If I wanted to set up a newspaper on my own and even design a software project, I wouldn't, in fact, intervene in the rights of future employees in this newspaper. Anyone who wanted to work in this newspaper would have made the programming scheme clear in advance. And if I could just find myself inside it, I'd get a job or not. Therefore, I consider the first provision to be unnecessary. Even if we turn this way, we do not talk about the fact that it is impossible to register, because of course it is mandatory to have an opinion in this process, whether it is taken into account or not. Of course, it is better if the opinion is taken into account. And that is why I believe that the attention of everyone here has been too great and is blocking the development of this activity, and I appeal that we reject it, and then, if there is any solution, let the amendment come to this. But as it is written, it seems to me that there is too much dissatisfaction to be expected from the National Assembly to accept the business in order to make a difference later. Let's not accept this, and then we'd better complement it if it goes that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. But in my opinion, it is. If you create a newspaper, you also need to know who will work and create this newspaper. And you're not gonna set up a newspaper, and then in a year, you're just gonna form an editor. So I don't see any problem here with this opinion of editorialism. That is why in this case I would listen to the solutions proposed by the Government, supported by the Home Committee on Culture, Education and Science and, of course, indirectly supported the journalists who propose this solution within the society of journalists in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Leo Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you. I have to support once again very resolute colleague of the School because it is possible and is also customary and it is normal to first make a design to obtain, at the time of establishment, I say, at the time of establishment, to gain consensus and, before it begins of course, then set up an editorial office. And it is a fact that those who are employed in such an editorial system are not forced to make any change, because the opinion, the position of journalists, the journalistic society, the journalistic society is going in this direction that while someone is already doing their job, changes the content of the media and forces them to do something that he does not want to do. And that's the problem. In this case, of course, if the content is clear, if the software design is very clearly written and I am employed in this medium, I have decided that I want to do it and it is not a problem. It's just a first problem where it's not possible to get an agreement from an editor who hasn't yet. That is why, of course, I support the proposal to delete this amendment, which would eventually be supplemented, as the government representative said. Because I think the other amendment, as far as the change in work is concerned, is solving the matter. Of course, the matter of the first establishment must also be defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to the first amendment to Article 17. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 22. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 17. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 17. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the third amendment to Article 17 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 17 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 17 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 18. The three amendments are set out in the review, one being the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 18, the proposer is the committee; two are the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother's working body; and three are the amendments of the Government, supported by the mother's working body. You have also received an amendment on the bench, which is proposed by Zmago Jelinčič, Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group [[Correction of the amendment is provided on the bench by Article 18]] . Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. By article 18, I would just like to start by saying that this correction is purely technical in nature, worth looking at. This is because in our amendment we have foreseen an institution of consensus that gives power, the actual influence of the editor to decide on the appointment or discharge of the editor. In doing so, let me say that many of the affected have expressed such a desire and support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u88	The Institute of Consent may or may not be aware of any arrangements. In a way, I think, not just because it violates or obstructs freedom of decision, even in a constitutional sense, but because it has many traps behind it. Last but not least, even those traps that no one at this institute wants to say out loud - this is protecting those possible, I will say, maintaining a state, usually status quo, when protecting that person who, in fact, in this case provides the employees or others in the editorial department with the most backstairs; backstabbing also in the sense of subsequent inert action. If there's only one possible explanation of the consequences of consent, I can mention it. We have an opinion - the opinion is, as we have already identified in this debate - an extremely symbolic character, it has, as it is said, a moral attitude binding to the extent that it is important and that problems, if not possible, are procedural in nature, but at the same time that the employees and other colleagues feel at least morally involved or symbolically involved in the game and decision-making, although, as I say, at the symbolic level. At the same time, I would point out, in the articles currently under discussion, that it is very questionable if only the end of paragraph 18 of Article 18 were to be completed, which states that only those members who are employed in the organisation were to decide on the opinion of the Editorial Office, in a regular working relationship. Times and practice show us that journalists are increasingly free to move, which means they do not have regular jobs, and even in the future they will have fewer and fewer regular jobs, and they have a huge or large size for those members of the editorial board or just outside employees who do not have a regular relationship, but are contractually bound. That is why it is right for them to make the same decision. In this case, we will support, but I will support the amendment of the government to Article 18, and not the consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. You want to replicate Mrs. Majde Shirce's performance? So, Mr. Sašo Pece and then Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrič. Mr Brenčič and Mr Kremjar also applied for the debate, and Mr Tone Partljič. Here you go, Mr. Sasha Pece!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u90	Of course, the implementation of Mrs Shirce is intended only to confirm what I said in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party on the whole law. Therefore, it is a matter of liberal democracy and thus the ruling structure in our country is trying to acquire or consolidate all the hunters it will acquire in this case, that is, when this law is passed and when the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is not adopted, it will only deepen. It was very interesting that they were symbolically involved in the game with the opinion they were supposed to give, let's say, employees. Yes, if you are in favor of this symbolism, that all they have in decision making is to give their opinion, which is not binding for any, then we are not far from dictatorship. In the Slovenian National Party, all we want to achieve is that those involved in this profession, that those who make the news, those who create the public image of Parliament, the national assembly, government institutions and other non-governmental institutions have the right to agree. So let's give them some power with this. We want to get politics out of the media. Of course, your right is to object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lavrich, please! Mr. Pece, can you turn it off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the representative of the government very much. Dear Members and Members! It would explain this Article 18. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this amendment is another proof of the government's throwing sand into the eyes. Because the word "review" is not strong enough to actually be taken into account. This was demonstrated by the very positive opinion of the information editor of RTVS to Mr Lad Ambrožič. Despite this opinion, the editor became Uroš Lipusček. In this case, the owners' representatives scolded at the opinion of the press group. With this ignorant attitude, the government risks that the programme will be worse, as the dissatisfaction of journalists in the choice of a boss can and is reflected in their work. If the word "contribution" is in marriage just for the sake of formality, then it better not be. Therefore, in our view, the word "consent" which has actual weight and is binding would be more appropriate. But since this is our opinion, you can take it into account or not. As you may or may not take into account the opinion of the editorial board. It would therefore be useful to consider the possibility of a co-proposal institute, also proposed by the Slovenian Press Society at RTVS, which would allow RTVS employees to have at least a minimum co-decision in the appointment of management staff. Let me also draw your attention to the amendment to this article, which we tabled in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which contains the word "consent" instead of "conclusion". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The procedure or technology for the appointment of a chairman, as envisaged by the amendment to Article 18, by the SNS Member Group, means the maintenance or establishment of a type of new self-government, which no longer falls within the economic order and the relationship between the owner, between the employee, the chairman and the employee we have decided on. The appointment of a chairman with the consent of the staff draws behind them the fact of logic. We're gonna put up a boss like you and me, who's gonna do what we think he's gonna do. Just like we think it's right. In this case, the primary exercise or the taking of the rights and duties of an employee like me will come at the heart of the second plan. That's the logic that will be put in place. With this logic, as I have already said, when appointing or giving consent to the appointment of the director of television, we will not simply establish order or rules of the game and not ultimately good results. I can't give consent as an employee for the appointment of my chairman. Yes, but an opinion that is reasoned with this and this. There can be no consensus, however, that will pull some kind of editorial back into some logic, as we consider employees to be right. This is no longer part of a social relationship, part of an economic order that we have decided on in this country. And I certainly can't support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič wishes to replicate Mr. Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u96	Of course, we allow you your opinion, so-called your new economic order, which causes such and such unemployment, globally in our society, because you have linked yourself to it. There was nothing else in our amendment than letting journalists have their basic freedom. We all know what a responsible editor means. We all know what functions mean in different media. We do not want anything but that politics and the desire of politics, and thus the lobbying of politics, withdraws from this area of life. And this area of life, believe me, not only for opposition political parties, but also for government political parties where you belong, is one of the most important. And we should all strive to ensure that information is impartial. To avoid a 40-year-old event. We all know what power means to inform. Let us avoid giving people or journalists the freedom to work, write, speak for themselves, and paint for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u98	Yes, Comrade Peca, with the consent of the press, they will make their own image, just as they think it's right. And we will maintain the presence of policy in the editorial sector, we will maintain a firm policy that can be put into one way or another, depending on such and different interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Leo Kremjar has come to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Again, unfortunately, I will have to oppose the board's position or I cannot support the first amendment, but I will explain why not. In fact, the second amendment - the government amendment is said to be more acceptable to me, without taking away the last sentence. In fact, the first amendment reads: "Only those members of the editorial board who are regularly employed by the issuer may decide on the opinion of the editor". That this last sentence should be deleted, which means that the opinion of the Management Board may be decided by all those who are somehow related to the editorial board. Personally, I think that the dictatorship should remain as it is in the second amendment, it is said that only those members of the editorial board who are regularly employed can decide on the opinion. I think that, of course, with due respect and genuine respect for people who are not employed and working in the offices, but all these people are directly linked financially to the function of what they give an opinion about, because this editor makes contracts with these external colleagues. And, of course, it is completely understandable and to expect them to be more benevolent, I will say, to the one who has already given them these contracts, at the time when they are required to have an opinion, than to perhaps someone else who is unknown to them, how and what he will do as a future editor. While in a slightly different situation, people are in regular employment. That is why I think that deleting this opinion and extending this opinion to the unemployed, regularly unemployed in the editorial profession, I do not think it is good, so I do not support this first amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. If you allow, it is now up to you - unless someone wishes to replicate - Mr Tone Partljič, then Mr Barovic and Mr Rudi Moge. Here you go, Mr. Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u102	I hope that someone won't get angry because I'm mostly silent, but I don't want to trigger any waves of replicas, and I will deliberately compare it to another activity that I know a little bit better, and I can only be answered by mixing apples and pears, but I think it's the same thing. I don't even understand my colleague Sasha, who I would like to hold as many times as possible for local patriotic reasons - the presence of such a political charge or the desire of a ruling party, which is probably the LDS, by getting in the hands of the media. After all, some laws are being made that - I hope that there will ever be another election result and that we will not all get on our nerves with this large or large majority. It's not my fault if we're so good that people want it. But neither have I seen the political charge, nor the political charge I think we are a little too much under the influence of television events. [[...]] Last but not least, it's the media law. In fact, I see some relapses and self-governance and unionism in it, but of course it is legitimate, and it needs to be fought in another fight, i.e. a union battle. I also disagree with my colleague Leon about self-employed people. We then set up people who work by contract or are in free professions, in fact, taking away some natural rights that they could use in the constitution or whatever they want. Are we going to have more and more free artists when we go to the theatre world, more and more free journalists, and it's the tendency of some team that has either -- now I'm talking about the media -- that has the media to get these big stars. [[...]] If they go somewhere else, it is a sign that something is wrong, and those who are employed here feel threatened, it seems especially good to keep the situation the way it is. When we wanted to accept a great actor from elsewhere or hire someone who is on the free market, the committees, the internals, for working relations were always against. I don't want to name names here, but the average players felt threatened when I invited Raco Polic and Boris Cavazzo. Here, in order for only those who have the opportunity to give an opinion in this way, it seems to me that a simple violation of the rights of some, perhaps the best pens, because big people do not want to be tied up, there is no more fashion to be so very busy and busy. It seems to me something that is a union battle, but it has other mechanisms to win. Even before that score of 22:22, I thought it was appropriate. I myself think about this opinion in this way. After all, there is great dissatisfaction, especially by the opposition, over the media that already seems manipulated by someone. Who says that one editorate cannot be political, have political colours and political foreshadow? And so they would give him everything in time, and perhaps not to the public. In short, I will make my own decision against all these amendments, as I have done so far. Not at all because I want to have any power, but they seem anachronistic to me, they seem to me during working relationships and self-governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Sasha Pece. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u104	Very briefly. Dear colleague Tone, if you named me by name, I'll call you too. If you don't understand the amendment, which, of course, is a legitimate right, I suggest you read it again. Then I'd ask him to read it a second time before he criticizes himself. In case you don't understand it, I advise you to take any part in Saturday's work into your hands. Then you'll see what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, but mostly I'll replicate both Mr. Brenčič and the others. Well, first of all, let me say that we don't just see television, because I'm just a person who's been on the radio, and I'm also a newspaper. It's true that some people think, if you do editorship, it's 5, 7, 10, 12 journalists agree that this is self-governance, we've even heard that this can be one political option. But I'm asking you if 12 people are against one editor, where there's a greater probability that one will represent a stronger one political option. Among the 12 people I'm sure there are at least 3 who might be thinking differently if we're pushing everything into one policy. At least 3 out of 12, but if one editor is arbitrarily appointed, only at the discretion of the publisher, there is only one who has one political option and conducts as he must. That's what I'm saying from practice. In addition, if we do not already accept the opinion, the colleague mentioned another institution for which I would ask, I do not know if it will be time for the government to define it, which is not mentioned, but perhaps the government could take it into account when it comes to the third reading, which is the co-proposal institute. But I don't think he's interfering with any new, I don't know, common sense and self-governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Reploco's got Mr. Ashish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u108	I'm going to replicate for a little while because I think we've been hanging around this for too long. Two years ago, or even less, in the case of the RTV Act, we were also thinking about this story, whether it was agreement or opinion, and we agreed on it. However, colleague Barovic, do you not think that the editor can come to that point very quickly, that all members of the editorial board are somehow against him. Only because she's a leading person. I don't know a company where a good employee can be, one who really does marry doesn't blame the workers. And at this level let go of the appointment of an editor so that, because of personal and such and such concerns, there may be a disagreement about his appointment, I don't think it's right. Let us leave self-governance alone, and let us just let life look at what it is and how quickly there are some misunderstandings that, at the moment of voting on the consensus, mean that they will oppose. And there's something else. Lobbys are also very present in these circles. That is why there is much less chance in the plural democratic parliament that this can happen, which can happen in some kind of circle that faces problems that need to be solved daily and that can also lead to day-to-day grievances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u110	You may be right, but don't you think it's wrong for us to talk about some people in the editorial department and some editor right now at the level where we read between the lines that they're all together, at least we're talking about it that way, some intrigue. That they are always, I don't know, journalists or personally or personally resent the editor or whatever. I think it's marginal. We must view marriage as a marriage, and we must see that both journalists and editors are honest people who do good work or do bad work. In any event, today the publisher’s power is to appoint, appoint, or relieve the editor to assess, if not from an economic perspective, from market research, from a newspaper or from a radio or from a television station, wherever they are, whether the editor and the editor are doing well or not. I think we've gone too low with these personal insults and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u112	The round table attended by the main media owners was also convened on this issue. And the owners of the three media there made it clear and loud that the issue of opinion is not only restrictive for them in their policy, but for the media it is healthy, because the owner of this media will then approximately know with which responsible editors will be able to bring a project to its end. So that there was no opposition from the media owners, and the dictatorship that was supported by the committee in the amendment was good. I do not agree with my fellow Member, a member of liberal democracy, Mr Kremjar, because the Committee has added to the supplement given by the Government in that it is deleted that only those members of the editorial board who are regularly employed by the issuer may decide on the opinion of the editor. In fact, given that in the case of smaller media in particular the relatively small number of regular employees is relatively low, and given that there will be more and more free journalists than there are now, since this status brings them greater flexibility and ultimately greater creativity, the Committee has proposed that this matter be deleted. And if we are democrats, and if we support an open society, then I would ask you very much to agree with the opinion given by Mr Kremjar, but to support the amendment of the committee to the amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I would like to make some further explanations for these complications myself. This has occurred because certain partial interests, which are not only legitimate, even good, do not think about how the law works in its entirety. That's, I'll say, a typical case. Regrettably, the government has also accepted amendments here without considering how this works in practice in the field of media regulation. If we have already decided on an opinion in the previous decision, then this opinion must be carried out in a consistent manner. All over the law. Therefore, it makes absolute sense to delete that the opinion relates only to those who are employed. This is also an argument that speaks, in fact, of what my colleague Tone is saying, that in fact all these amendments are not always pure substantive matters, but trade union rights. Be careful when reading the other amendments. If we have an institution of opinion, it must also apply to the media, which some may virtually have no formal employee. They may not even have a responsible editor in a regular working relationship. But when we're building legislation, even if we're talking about consensus, of course, but this is, I'll say, another story, the structure should apply to this entire media space. The second is the issue of consent. It is true that the opinion is welcome for everyone, even what may sound strange, is a more welcome opinion for someone who invests his private money than for a public institution. There we see that there are different interests - I will not list them. Because they're interested in the end mainly in the effect of the team that makes one, say, and the newspaper all the other media. I fear, however, that with the Institute of Consent, which unfortunately does not apply only to public institutions, or to caricatures, for what was once a social enterprise, that the Institute of Consent is limited to owners. Hypothetically, an editor can also cause material damage to the newspaper - paid by the owner. Loses, say, three, four lawsuits in a row. Journalists who have helped to co-prove this incorrect information, which means the loss of the claim, are wondering if they will be for the replacement editor. I am talking about border situations that are also the subject of this law. In this case too, must the owner who costs this three, four indemnity lawsuit obtain consent to be able to replace someone? The law must be read in its entirety and the law governs complicated relations between the public, media houses and, unusually, these institutions of relations within media houses. Right, so it was in previous solutions, but let's think about all of these things, not just the public institution of RTV. The public agency RTV has its own separate law. If it is of interest that a lawyer is there, or directors or editors or journalists or anyone else, it is nevertheless reasonable to move this discussion into that debate about that law, not with those experiences that people have from there or with the information they have from there, to burden some specialised media that has nothing to do with it. The vast majority of things, perhaps these printed and aether-mediated, even with political interests, have nothing. We also have different newspapers and media that are very successful and do not even deal with politics. This law regulates, luckily, all of it. If I'd only handled these political things, then I'd probably have been written differently. Therefore, I do not believe that consensus should be supported and that the deletion should be supported. If we already have opinions, it should be designed by everyone who forms an editor.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u116	I have to replicate. I don't have to, but I want to. See, if we extend this matter more than the government proposes in this case and, as the Committee on Culture, Education and so on suggests, we will, of course, take the position that we will not know who to give this opinion to. I'll give you a case. Editorial board members can be very broad if they are not limited to regular employees. The radio station, a smaller radio station or a larger one, for example, has a smaller radio station each - and similarly for other media - a crowd of correspondents who, say, appear once a month with one witch who is grateful and welcome to this medium, about some fireman's joy or something bigger happens in that place. Of course, he is also a co-worker and in some ways a member of this editorial board, because he has a contract, just like the one that prepares the three-hour show. Of course, there's no big difference here. They both have a contract of employment. The separation is only in the regular category of employees and those who are not regularly employed. That is why I think we would support this, of course, the government proposal and not the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u118	I would like to say that marriage must be read in full. Article 20, which specifies who is in the editorial board, is corrected if we accept with an amendment from the government, which says: "The office consists of: responsible editors or responsible editors, other editors and journalists." He knows who the editors are, so there's no dilemma here. So I would ask you once again to support the amendment of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u120	I don't think it's tragic for us to think differently in liberal democracy, let alone from the same nest. I simply do not understand the criteria of "regularly employed" and cannot accept it. But I may also be personally affected in any way because, for example, I have a daughter who is a free artist in the theatre and who is always completely unjust - she is always wrong, from social to housing rights. That's why I don't understand. It's not about those who send one line, it's not about those, it's about those who, for example, create a particular medium, and they don't want to be employed in this medium because they do something else. My colleague Skolcz specifically warned us that we were "crazy" but from politics. We don't pass the law on political media. We have a magazine, whether it's called Nogomet or Ball, published by the Football Association of Slovenia. But now you want this newspaper to hire people so they can fulfill this marriage? But it is not normal for the people involved to vote on this, regardless of the status of the contract they have. It seems to me that in our time, sharing people with employees, unemployed people, I find it simply absurd.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Representative of the government, Mr. Zorko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Let me explain in a few sentences how this dilemma or this part of the text that speaks about employees and the decision-making of employees alone. It was formed in a discussion with the company of journalists in Slovenia. If you read the amendment to article 20 on the following page, then you can see that the editorial board is composed in addition to editors, journalists and so on, other authors of contributions or program contributors can do so. Then there was a simple question, what is it, or, as Mr Partljič said, whether one who brings news once a year, or one who, say, participates in the editorial work every day. We both do. We have a whole network of media houses where people work every day as if they were regularly employed. They didn't. Of course, we have different cases. We have media houses with about 100, 150 employed journalists, we have media houses with one employed journalist. It's usually in the editor's person. This structure and this palette is very varied. And really the problem is a more precise definition of what it is, or if we also have an institution of opinion, what it is, who should give an opinion. These dilemmas then created this definition that the opinion should be binding or at least morally binding only to those who are employed. But it is true that in the media, for example, small radio stations, where two or three people are employed, or have 30 or 40 external associates, this is, of course, slightly different from those with 100 journalists employed, or 20 or 30 external associates. But not so long ago, last fall we had a case where everyone, not only employees, and everyone else, decided in an opinion poll. A small dispute arose, which opinion is now or which votes are now morally binding on the owner or media guide in the appointment of the responsible editor. There's no universal solution. Of course, it is possible to do the same as the Committee proposes by specifying specific legal persons or individual media in the statutes. However, it is possible to define both in the statutes. So only employees or more precisely define which employees are the ones to decide. The government proposes that employees, in agreement with the press society. Especially for larger media outlets, we think that this solution is cleaner. For smaller media houses, of course, this solution can sometimes be questionable, especially those who do not have a large number of employees. But I respect all the concerns they have, say, Mr Partljič. It is true that more and more journalists are working as journalists in the free profession, that this cycle of free professions will spread or that there will be more and more of these. It is true that there is an increasing interest in employers or media owners that more journalists are in the free profession, as self-employed, not regularly employed. The economy is in this emergency. So the dilemma is, for larger media houses, where it is already an editorship, with a few more members, we think that this solution, together with the press society, is that this solution is cleaner, more transparent or more clearly defines the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you. It's quite short, let's say a replica to a government representative. I would absolutely support here the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport from another point of view - I will tell you why. If we are already using the term "editorial opinion" hereinafter referred to in this Article, the publisher or the media shall, in any event, determine who the members of his editorial board are. So now to determine exactly whether they're employed or not and argue about it, I really don't think it makes sense. If there will be a "amendment of editorialism", this solves the problem of all media Because every media that works must have a definition of who are members of the editorial board. But if it doesn't, this medium won't work for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a decision: we will first decide on the amendment, we will fix the amendment to the amendment of the Government, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under one and two, which are listed in the amendment review, are irrelevant. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 41. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the amendment of the government to the 18th Article, of which the proposed committee is a committee, and is under number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 8. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're moving on to an amendment under two. This is an amendment from the government that the mother's working body supports. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We're still moving on to the amendment under number three. This is an amendment from the government that the mother's working body supports. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 8. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 18 as a whole. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 18 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 19. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you. We do not support the Social Democratism of this amendment, because in some ways we want the media space to remain independent, and we want to avoid all those solutions that we know will not be in the public interest. Political officials are mainly a major pressure on the work of the editors and the work of journalists. Due to some way of political hygiene, editors should not be, as the provisions talking about plural, independent and other media are, in fact, totally unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 14. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 19 as a whole. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 7. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Article 19 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 20, whose proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the mother labour body of the two proposed amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we will vote on the amendment under one. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment under two. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We still need to make a full decision on Article 20. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 20 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 21. The proposaler is both government, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sculpture, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I think it might not even be necessary, but it is a very important article, with a very important first amendment. This is the first time in our legal order that the journalist is guaranteed the inviolability of not saying the source of information, as well as for the author of the contribution. This amendment extends to the editor if the editor knows it. I think it is wise that this Parliament in some way supports acclamation. This is one of the key things that has been discussed in the last, perhaps fifteen, sixteen years in the previous republic and the present country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u130	In addition to what Mr Školč said, I would add something that does not touch this law, but touches our legal system. In fact, this law, or if we vote or vote on this article, appeals that we still have a flawed law in the case of a criminal code or in the law on criminal proceedings. There we read that the unjustifiable issue of professional secrecy in 153rd Article says that "who unjustifiably gives away a secret that he has learned as an advocate, a lawyer, a doctor, a priest, a social worker, a psychologist or another person..." It's not right that journalists, if we recognize them here, are in the mass of some other person. That's why I appeal to these dictions to be complemented by the press. As in the law on criminal proceedings, which states that the duties of testimony are forgiven again, the lawyer, the doctor, the social worker, the psychologist or any other person, the facts, etc. that have been told to him in the course of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 21. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We're still moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that two amendments have been adopted. We still need to make a decision on Article 21 in its entirety. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 21 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 23. All three amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment under 1 and 2 also has the support of the parent working body and the amendment under 3 does not have this support. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u132	I would only explain why the Committee of the Third Amendment did not support it; which assumes that in the impression, it is stated in the identity card or in the statements of the individual media that the load is eliminated. The Committee considered that this information, the information that the consumer should be informed about, was particularly the advertiser in this case. That is why the Government's proposal in this case is not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the first amendment to Article 23. We're voting. 60 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 23. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 25 to 19. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 23 in full. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 29, 2 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 23 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 29. We have an amendment under 1, whose proposal is Rudolf Petan, the amendment's government opposes, and neither does the parent's working body support it. Then there is the amendment under 2, whose proposer is Victory Jelinčič. The Government of the amendment opposes, the parent working body does not support it, noting that if an amendment under number 1 is adopted, there is no need to vote on the amendment under number 2 as its content is already covered by amendment number 1. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you. I think we need to think a little bit about the 29th or both of these amendments, which are somehow bound, too. I would say that it is not always meaningful and possible to make copies of a record, so the proposed amendment allows the person concerned an alternative option to look at an entry. In short, if we are looking at this law-making exercise, if we are just talking about this law, I think that both amendments are worth considering and I would not immediately say that fellow Members are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 32. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 21 to 24. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted either. We still have to vote on Article 29 in full. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 7. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 34, of which the Government is proposing, the mother labour body supports it. Anybody want to talk? No.) We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 34 in full. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. (For the vote was 39.)(Nobody.) I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the three amendments to Article 43. Under number 1, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother working body; under number 2, the amendment of the Victory of Jelinčič - the Government does not oppose the amendment, the parent working body supports it; and under number 3, the amendment of the Rudolph Petan, which the government does not oppose, does not support the parent working body of the amendment, with a note: if the amendment is adopted under number 1, there is no need to vote on the amendment under number 3, since its content is already covered by the amendment under number 1. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment under number 1 has been adopted, which means that there is no need to vote on the amendment under number 2, given that the same content as the amendment under number 1 and the amendment under number 3. We still have to vote on Article 43 in full. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 46. All three amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment under one parent working body supports; the amendment under two parent working bodies does not support and the amendment under three has the support of the parent working body. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In the second amendment, which was not supported by the parental committee, it is said that in Article 46, what is not considered to be advertisements under this law would be "thrown out" of what is not considered to be ads under this law, I have only this comment. In fact, it is a lap-up that has occurred to the applicant with the attention to protect advertisements, including those advertisements listed as in the second paragraph, short notices on their own content, unpaid publications of cultural events, etc., that have been appointed for advertisements in order to take over the standard of other advertisements and to be protected against unnecessary content, against all the content that advertisements must not have according to European standards, harmful content. This indignation has occurred, however, that this definition of what software content, which is not considered to be classic advertisements, is transferred to Article 98. However, Article 98 is written in such a way that it would change its intent completely. For it says that the provisions of this Article do not apply to Radiotelevision programmes of Slovenia. In short, there would be a great deal of chaos if one article moved to the other and only one advert would be dealt with exclusively in the other. It's a little hard to explain. But I would only appeal that we do not delete the second paragraph of Article 46 for the time being and that, at the third reading, the drafter prepares exactly the dictatorship and the right solution that will follow the intention to protect all advertisements, including those that do not have the level or character of the ads paid. At the same time, they are preserved as a definition of what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we vote on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 10 to 33. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u138	Chairman, I suggest you determine the actual presence, not on the screen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u139	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take a look at the adjacent slots if maybe one of their colleagues left a card in the slot. Thank you so much for your help. There are 50 of us in the Hall, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can make a valid decision. We have yet to vote on the third amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number 3 has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 46 in full. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 56, whose proposer is Victory Jelinčič. The Government opposes the amendment, the parent working body does not support it, by noting that the amendment refers to the original text of the article, which was corrected by the drafter of the law on 5.2.2001. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you. The limitation of ownership to 33% in local and regional television programmes established by the founders' own resources is meaningless. The limitation of ownership is useful for large, such as television, which was established with foreign capital, and not for local and regional televisions. Most local TVs produce a non-profit program, mostly operating on the edge of survival or with loss. For the purposes of survival, the founders' undertakings are engaged in other profitable activities so that the funds obtained can invest in the programme. Due to rapid technological development and increasing professionalization requirements, including in the field of local media, most local televisions had to restore equipment, buy new and larger business spaces. All of this was possible only by renting expensive bank loans that were possible with mortgage guarantees on real estate and so on. A change in ownership structures would constitute an urgent sale of the founder companies, which is currently not possible due to the planned long-term investment investments. For it is difficult to imagine investors wishing to buy such a company, except for local policies, which could, of course, buy their own newspaper on sale because of this and this law. Potential buyers, but this is unlikely due to the limitation of administrative rights, could also be foreign or large-scale enterprises with capital to which the local programme would be a priority all the time. They are very likely to find only portable routes interesting. This would not happen for the first time and perhaps Slovenian media space would get a new soup program. The draft law of 28 May 1999 took Article 54 into account [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u141	Mr. Barovich, if you'll excuse me. Mr Barovic, allow me, the representative of the secretariat has warned me that your implementation is intended for an article which is not subject to consideration, is an old text. If you want, you can get me Article 56 of the revised proposal, which does not contain these restrictions, by saving you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Tanko want to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u144	No, I don't. I just think it's wise to stop the session, to get this text. We also have this limitation of 33 inside, I have no other text, and it would be wise to read it before we even make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u145	This is the correction with date 1.2.2001. The text of 5.2.2001 came to the National Assembly and you were served. These are the amendments. The first part is the government's amendments, and the last part is the revisions to the texts. The amendments shall be read at Articles 18, 56, 145, 153 and 154.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u146	However, I would suggest that we stop and take a closer look at what we have obviously missed.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Since time is coming for lunch, I am interrupting the work of the National Assembly. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u148	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we continue the afternoon part of the 3rd meeting. I would like to inform you that they further apologized for the continuation of the 3rd session, on 1.3.2001, Cyril Pucko for all day, Bogomir Zamernik from 16 p.m. onwards, Franc Onion for the afternoon part of the session, Anton Delak for the afternoon part of the session, Janez Podobnik for the afternoon part of the session and Roberto Battelli will be present at the afternoon part of the session, although he was excused for the whole day. We're picking up the presence! Please insert the cards and also look at the neighbor's seat so that maybe someone doesn't have an inserted card and it's not there. We're picking up the presence! There are 55 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. In this morning's work, we broke off when we defined the amendment to Article 56, which is on page 13 of the amendment review, and found that, given that it relates to the text of the article that the government has amended, therefore, the amendment of the winner of the Yelinčič Victory is irrelevant. However, you have just received the 56th article of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to the 56th member of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u149	The amendment we just received on the table is, in fact, a return to the original text of Article 56, which governs the current law on public newspapers ownership. If we supported this amendment, it would mean that we would actually be failing the decisions adopted by the National Assembly at first reading and giving way to the substantial release of ownership shares in Slovenian media. This guidance has been taken into account by the drafter of the law for the second treatment, released ownership, saved control of this release with special supplements such as concern, I will say, for pluralisation in terms of competitive solutions, solutions of connected persons, solutions with incompatibilities of performance and so on, and in particular with the protection of competition. Therefore, at least in the LDS, we will strongly oppose the support of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you very much. In the Socialist Party's Group, we believe that in some way ownership monopolies should be restricted. We have therefore also proposed that the content of the article, as published in the Rapporteur, should be returned. All other things then relate to cross ownership in one way or another; I think things are good, although the shares are 100 percent raised, from 10 percent to 20%. Thus, we believe that at least this first security guard concerning individual ownership should remain in the media section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Does the government representative want to be defined by this amendment? Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. So, if we return this provision, a whole bunch of smaller media in Slovenia, especially radio stations, will be in big trouble. For larger journals - I am talking about the daily informative press - of course this will not happen. However, there are about 80 smaller radio stations, and I think there are at least 50 to 60 of them that will have to substantially change the ownership structure. That's one piece of the medal. The second side of the medal is that it is not a problem in the media, but it is essential that the individual owner or group of owners in the market does not reach any dominant or monopolistic position. This is what we are trying to deal with with Article 57 and the other articles talking about connected persons. We believe that it is not bad if the individual owner is also a hundred percent owner, because of us it can also be a diary, but, of course, this diary must not have a dominant position on the market. We have therefore added this chapter, paragraph 57a, which deals in more detail with the protection of competition. It is with the protection of competition that we want to ensure - we or we believe that the protection of competition is one of the fundamental conditions or preconditions for media plurality, plurality in all areas, not just political plurality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment of Article 56 of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 28. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 56 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 32 to 14. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the three amendments for the new 57th article, namely, the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new 57th article, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia; under the two amendments to the Government's amendment for the new 57th article, the proposed amendment is the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport; and under three is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body, or the basic amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we have proposed this minor editorial correction in the third indent by proposing that it can be deleted. Especially because somehow it allows decision-making in essence like elasticity - you can assign something to someone under the same conditions or give it to someone else. Without this, I think this article can be much cleaner, or a clear limit, where something is possible and where it is no longer possible. No subjective judgements shall be left to this effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to decide on the first amendment to the government's amendment for the new 57th article, the proposaler is the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 43 votes against 7. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. In favour of 29 votes against 2. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment, this is the basic amendment of the government. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 44.1 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 58. Under 1 is the amendment, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, under 2 is the amendment of the same proposer, with the footnote, if the amendment is not adopted under 1, this amendment is irrelevant, since both of them are linked by content. Under 3 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother's working body, with a note, if the amendment under 1 and 2 is adopted, this amendment is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Government representative, Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I would only warn if we accept this amendment, we will put an extraordinary strain into the very tight skin of all the publishers of the Slovenian media. In the world and in us too, so-called multimedia editorials are gradually being implemented. This is a very famous principle where one editor can work or manage a journalistic work, editorial work for several different media. With such an approach, we will substantially reduce multimedia editorial and development in this area. I therefore suggest that you do not accept this amendment. However, we must also leave an open door for the development of domestic media, regardless of whose ownership they are and how it is organised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision, namely the first amendment to Article 58. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 13, 32 against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. Nor do we vote on the amendment under two, which is substantively linked to the amendment under one, because it has become irrelevant. We're still voting on the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 11. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still have to vote on Article 58 in full. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 5. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 59, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment was adopted and the article is lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 60. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 61. Under one is the amendment, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, its mother's working body supports it; under two amendments, which is proposed by Zmaj Jelinčič, the Government opposes the amendment, nor does its mother's working body support it. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you. Just an explanation of the amendment. Some operators started creating a local television program years ago, both because of the need to inform viewers about local issues and because of the desire to offer them a new program. Throughout all these years, operators have invested in production, technical equipment, technical and human resources skills and finally the visibility of their programme of all available own resources. The terminology that telecommunications and television activities are incompatible makes no sense, since these different activities are carried out by different staff who are qualified for their work and, apart from the fact that the company that is the founder of the programme carries out several types of activities, which are normal in the business world, have no common point. Therefore, the amendment to which the restriction referred to in paragraph 1 is to be added to Article 61 shall not apply to operators already producing a television programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u161	In my opinion, this amendment is unnecessary because such matters are dealt with in a transitional provision in Article 175, which states that within 18 months of the entry into force of this Act, they pass over and begin to apply and regulate things backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 61. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 40 votes, one against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number two. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 35. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 61 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new 61st article, of which the Government is proposing, the mother labour body supports it. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you. This Article is somehow linked directly to Article 64, which is published in the original text in the Rapporteur. We believe that this solution, taking into account the amendment to Article 64, which we have proposed when these monopolistic 50% decreases that the solution in this article is much better and much clearer. In some ways, this allows plurality or prevents monopolies. We believe that the Government's proposal is not precise enough, it is not clear enough. The law itself is logically structured enough and has meaningful content, so I do not think that this amendment is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Government representative, Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We propose that paragraph 64 be deleted. Therefore, this 61.a Article, which is, of course, to be read together with Article 57a, with Article 57a proposed, and to take into account that we have rules on competition protection, which are likely to regulate the area and the protection of competition quite precisely, and of course the competent competition authority, which will then finally assess whether competition or competition protection is at risk or not. Therefore, instead of Article 64, Articles 57a and 61a, which we consider to be sufficiently detailed to address this issue, are, of course, together with the rules on competition protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u166	Mr. Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Those provisions which give too much power to discretion to the executive authorities are not good. We therefore disagree with the opinion of the government representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment for the new 61.a. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 32 to 13. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to chapter 10. The proposer is the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes to 10. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We also decide on chapter 10 of the first chapter in its entirety. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 10. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the department's address has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 64. The first amendment is the Government's amendment, the mother's working body supports it; under two is the amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, with a note, if the amendment is adopted under one, the amendment under two is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we decide on the amendment to Article 64 under one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 9. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the first amendment has been adopted, which means that the amendment under 2 is irrelevant and we do not vote on it. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the five amendments to Article 67. Under 1 is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body. Under 2 is the same candidate and also support. Under 3 is also the proposed government, the mother labour body supports the amendment. Under 4 is the proponent of Victory Jelinčič, the government opposes the amendment, nor does the mother's working body support it. Under 5 is an amendment of the government supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u169	I would like to draw attention to the third amendment, in short to that amendment in Article 67, paragraph 4, where the word "Slovenian music" should be replaced by the words "music expressed in Slovenian speech". We have already tried on the committee to resolve the question of how this very awkward term of'music in Slovenia' could be replaced, of course, by a more appropriate one. This is a negotiation that the proposaler had in Brussels, trapped in a European Commission dictatorship that requires a total non-discriminatory treatment of European works and parts of national productions. At the same time, the Directive on cross-border television, of which the State of the Republic of Slovenia is also a signatory, says that in cases where language policy is implemented, this discrimination may be infringed. That is why the speaker came to a lecture saying that we have the music content spoken in a rumor, in the Slovenian word. Of course, there could be a very awkward interpretation that the media must achieve a certain proportion, as dictated or as this article says, only in cases where music is expressed in a rumor. This means that only vocal music could have the right to these quotas here, while all other instrumental music could have remained or even instrumental and vocal music could not. I support the Republic of Slovenia's efforts to enforce a certain quota of its own production, because we know that this means confirming and preserving our specialty also through language. When I vote against this article, I will not vote because of its intention, but because of its dictatorship. I would ask that the third-reading speaker find a possible expression or possibly agree with the term'musical works of the Slovenian term', if this could be a compromise as the French have found it. At the same time, I would also appeal that the proposer, from the estimated percentages proposed for mandatory ones, raises the mandatory share of Slovenian music, in short, both vocal and instrumental, to a greater proportion than proposed. This is certainly the protection of at least a few of our content, given the flood of music being imposed on us from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u171	The truth must be told that the applicant, when we discussed this, did not know the clear way out of the dilemma raised by colleague Maja Širc. Since this is the second treatment, we have supported this amendment, and in parallel, if we open it, also the amendment to Article 152 in point A. Then we will pay more attention to the third reading and we will try to find an expression that will satisfy both the Slovenian language and the legislation relating to Europe. That is why we have supported both amendments to this Article and to Article 152.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision in order. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 67. We're voting. [[Member of the Party from the bench.]] Wait a minute! We voted on the first amendment, Mr Partljič, and I will give you an opportunity immediately. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 26 votes against 4. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u173	I was wrong twice - I would explain my voice only at the third amendment. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u174	Okay. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. Mr. Tone Partlič, before we vote on the third amendment, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u175	For the third amendment - it is "music is the expression of the Slovenian rumor". It was all said, I just want to warn you that I will vote against not having a lot of people vote "yes" in a routine. I think that this must be prevented in any case because this formulation is pointless. Mr Moze said that it was essentially about finding another formulation. But I don't think he can handle it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. You want to explain your voice? Here you go, Mr. Bayuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I am grateful to both LDS colleagues who also explained their voice and the amendment themselves. We will also support this in the same expectation that for the third reading we will only find a better dictatorship that will actually solve the problem. But for once, let's keep it that way, but on that condition or in this expectation. Conditioning is not a yes, but we have expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, explanation of voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u179	I'll vote for this amendment myself. It was proposed by the government, supported by the home committee and I hope that we will resolve this question, how to express it in other words, "the music expressed in the Slovenian rumour" in the third reading of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, please explain your voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u181	I will vote against it for the same reasons. There is no need to support this because the article is already open. From this point of view, it is foolish to keep it quiet, because this discussion has been going on for a very long time, meaning, in fact, in some calculation, I will not repeat the discussions with the committee, the possibility that only part of the music is privileged within these quotas, because in itself it may not be wrong. But I think we need to find the right term and that all the options are already given, and let's be smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, an explanation of the voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u183	If the committee does not change the text in this part where the amendment was tabled, it means that it agrees with what is written here. But we know this is bad. It is better in this way to open it, even though it is not right and the government will have to correct it in any way at third reading. Otherwise, they may enter for third treatment only the part accepted by the National Assembly and leave the rest as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. I think that we have already concluded the debate and, unfortunately, at this stage there is only an explanation for the vote of Members. That way we can only go to the vote. I'm putting the third amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 15 votes against 26. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the third amendment has not been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 11 to 35. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the fourth amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the fifth amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 11. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the fifth amendment has been adopted. We have yet to make a full decision on Article 67. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 67 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 68. All four amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all four amendments are supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 68. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment to Article 68. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the fourth amendment to Article 68 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 68 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 68 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 75. Under number 1, the amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia is an amendment under number 2 which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The mother's working body supports this amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u185	To me, the cleaning lady has passed the Convention on Cross-Border Television and the Protocol, so I will need an explanation from the government. The SDS amendment provides that, in Article 75, the right of the public to monitor the major events that are now taking place or giving this possibility to television, as, I think, the Convention, would also extend to radio activity. As far as my personal perception is concerned, I don't think it's at all controversial. I ask what this means in the context of the so-called prescribed articles of the Convention, which speak of important events which must be made available to the public and also of the rules on how they are adopted. If the government provided an explanation as to whether the extension to radio activity was appropriate, it would also support the SDS proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Government representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The content of Article 75 applies exclusively to television programmes as a result of the requirement of the TV directive of the European Community, which requires the Republic of Slovenia to harmonise this issue only for television programmes. Therefore, the applicant did not intervene in the field of radio programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u189	Okay, these are the rules of the game that are bound by the rules of the convention. But it wouldn't hurt if those rules touched the radio. The radio media also has the opportunity and right to monitor, I don't know, a concert or a football game, according to the rules applicable in the context of public interest. If this is not broken, I ask again, then Slovenia can extend these rules to radio activity. If that's broken, we'll decide now.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u191	Since this amendment came a little too late, the government did not define itself. However, I think it would make sense to extend it to the radio, because we will have more and more of these things, where radio stations will also have an interest in transmissions. That is why I think that we can follow the amendment or I suggest that you follow it, but this is not the government's position, because the government has not defined itself to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more and the government representative has also defined himself until the first amendment, I am putting to the vote the first amendment to Article 75. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 37.7 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 75. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted under two. We still have to vote on Article 75 in full. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 76. Both amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment under one mother's working body supports and the amendments under two do not. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, which is the first amendment to Article 76. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the first amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 20. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the second amendment has been adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 76 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 77. Under one and two are the amendments, the proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body supports them; under three is the amendment of which the candidate is the Victory of Jelinčič, the Government opposes the amendment, the parent working body does not support it - with a note, if the amendment is adopted under number two, the Taamandma is irrelevant; and under four is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the mother working body supports. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. 40% of the local content of the TV program's own production is a difficult thing. That's what we're gonna know, whoever we've ever done. This programme requires at least five times more work, costs, time than the speed allowed by the radio programme. The radio programme, however, provides for 30% of local content by recognising Slovenian singing as its own production. Persistence at 40% seems to me to be a software grading of local content. I think that in order to achieve the required percentage, local televisions would be able to broadcast long-lived, unquality, uninteresting content for viewers and invent everything and anything that would not be judged there. It seems to me that, given the real possibility of local television media being 20%, the proposal envisaged in our amendment is indeed a real legal basis. Those televisions, local ones capable of making and doing more in this area, can also achieve more local programs. But I think 20% is that real limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u195	We have another amendment, which I suppose is not a functional compromise, but a real compromise and talks about content that is limited to 30%. This is a government amendment that is already reducing the quota offered 40% in the basic law. I think this quota and this percentage are real. We went through another amendment a few minutes ago, which says that after all it's not just that production that's once on the air, it's a production that takes into account the premiere, the repetition and everything. This is said not only to be strict or cultural or educational, but also to be broader in production, including omises and other content, according to the assumption or even one logical conclusion that, however, local stations should in some way cover the interests of local communities also with the content of these communities of interest. This is said to be its own content and this percentage of the proposed share is certainly appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u197	Madam Vice President! With regard to the amendments to Article 77, I would suggest voting on the third amendment before the vote on the second amendment, because this is far more distant and I think this has been the case in the practice of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u198	Mr Janc, the proposal has been adopted. Mr. Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. I would like to join Mr Barovic's findings. In fact, I think that 30% of my own programme is such a high degree of difficulty in obtaining its own programme that it can actually disable a wide range of local radio or television programmes by making such a decision. I think that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party has been put in place and that it would make sense to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Representative of the government, Mr. Zorko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I think we still need to know that we are talking about local radio and television programs that have special status. These are not local commercial or some kind of television. Local commercial televisions, which do not have special programme status, have lower quotas, of course, than is envisaged. And we're talking about local television programs. Most of these programs came from cable operators or similar organisations or from someone who has just been awarded a broadcasting concession by cable operators or to broadcast programs through a channel. These TVs, of course, mainly have a much higher local program than 30% if we are talking about a local television station. The argument is that television production is significantly more expensive than radio production, but we are talking about the special status of a local television station, which is different from, say, local-to-range status, according to the television station's ratings, which does not apply to this special status. That is why we need to distinguish between these two media. We've already made some compromise from 40% to 30%. I think it is right to insist that if a local television station wants to have a special status, it also has more of its own program. This is, of course, a local programme that should serve the local population. Otherwise, we can do it by lowering these percentages to get local commercial stations with special status. I don't think that would be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u203	I listened to a whisper in the queues, in fact, what is the special status of the local station, which its advantages in doing so and ultimately why it is necessary to have it. Local radio and television stations, which would gain this status - as we heard this morning - would help them acquire an agency or decide to broadcast the world within the agency - have, as we saw yesterday in the first reading of the RTV law, the possibility of unpaid broadcasting their content through the air transmitters and communications. That's one advantage. They certainly have a priority not to say an open path to competition for funds for the development of their own programmes, both in terms of infrastructure and content within the tender that the Fund is supposed to allow, if I mention only the most important. It should also be known that there is also a third paragraph, which says that some local radio and television stations are excluded in this regard, given their demographic vulnerability and economic underdevelopment, and if they continue to do so by law, there are other benefits that in some ways are more stimulating than limiting the development of local radio and television stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Leo Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I don't think any of this, 20, 30 or 40, is going to solve the problem. As far as I'm concerned, we can support any of these options. I'll tell you why not. That it's more or less a program, if it's 40%, as it was written, or 20, as the mildest amendment, to put it like that, means - what? At one of these radio stations, they're just going to have a live broadcast, as it's called, which is the easiest thing to do about any topic, but they're going to extend it for 12 minutes -- and that's going to be the result because they're going to have to satisfy it. Or else, they're going to make a repeat. The question is whether we will achieve a goal that - because repetitions are limited, I know how and what, but the question is whether we will achieve this goal that we want to achieve. I don't think so. Therefore, this needs to be done with some other things, not with legislative restrictions, which can lead to a little bit less programming or a little bit more information than it would have been. That's why any variant is acceptable to me. I'm just going to support one of these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u207	In doing so, the third paragraph of Article 77, which speaks outside this quota, should also be read "except for the status of a local radio and television programme which does not reach the prescribed proportion of the local content of its own production referred to in this Article, if such a programme is extended in a geographically threatened or economically underdeveloped area and if there is no other local media or television space in that area". This is how this thing is made very widely democratically. If, however, more radio stations are being drained in an area that is not demographically threatened, then we must strive not to watch five or six minutes of the local program in such a location, but the rest will be for advertising itself. It seems to me that what the committee has supported would be good to support. If you look at 30% of the hour, you can calculate how many minutes per hour will the local program please? [[...]] Yeah, I mean, it's just a broadcast time -- I'm sorry. You can calculate how long this is - not so much. Not at all, if you look at the amendment under the number, it seems to me, under number four, but it says, "The minimum broadcast time of the local television program is three hours a day and four days a week."
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u209	I'm just going to point out one thing that we haven't really mentioned yet. This law is most faced with a dictatorship commercially and non-commercially. In a way, they all become commercial because they have the right to market. And that's right. They have the right to survive and survive. But if we cancel one deadline, we have to take another distinction. Distinction between, I'll say, public interest and those who aren't the primary ones. In this case, however, we have established a distinction, and we are dealing with distinctions that speak of programmes of particular importance, local, regional, non-profit, student, and perhaps I have let something go. We meet other standards or other standards. In this respect, certain distinctions are placed between one activity and another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. I will follow Mr. Janc's proposal and we will first vote on the third amendment to 77. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u211	I'll explain my voice to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u212	at the amendment to the third. [[...]] So we are voting first on the first amendment, then on the third amendment, on the second amendment, and finally on the fourth. Mr. Skull, to the third? Thank you very much. So, first of all, we are going to vote on the first amendment to Article 77. The proposer is the government, the mother's working body supports him. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 7. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] We are moving to a vote on the third amendment, which is proposed by Victory Jelinčič. His government opposes him, his mother's working body doesn't support him. Here he wishes to explain the voice of Mr Školč. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote against this amendment for a simple reason, because this debate and this amendment and article need to be read in conjunction with the following article. Both articles then show when there is some status of the local program. If we follow only the goal here that everyone can have or implement a program and therefore we lower it to zero, this time we have come from 40 to 20, then I wonder what it means to treat something as local or later to see a regional programme. For example, Ljubljana is a lot of these local or regional areas, so as not to argue, station. If they do not meet other conditions, they will be able to provide all of these 20% supported by Mr Jelinčič, which means that "de facto" will be paid through public funds for the transfer to the air. That's actually it. Of course, I think that, as we discussed before the time of the appointment of the Director-General and directly about this house of RTV yesterday, equally with the law and today on the media, we should have a discussion in local communities about these local media, define them, support them, enable them to function. If we essentially lower the demand to do so to the minimum, then this story is over somewhere. As a result, this means that there will in fact be no difference. It's a shame to talk about someone getting the status of the local program. Yeah, what's he gonna do if he doesn't have something that's interested in that local circle? And it seems to me that this debate can also be played out by an extended deadline. To play 20% as well. One who can't do 10% of a good program will play 20, 30 and 40. Of course, the question is, What will audiences and viewers do? That's why it's not an argument for it, it's an argument against it. If we want to grant someone the status of the local program, I think we need to demand at least 40, if not 50%, for which unfortunately there is no amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. We decide on the third amendment to Article 77, of which the candidate is Victory Jelinčič. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 39. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the third amendment to Article 77 has not been adopted. We move to a vote on the second amendment to Article 77. The proposaler is the government, his mother's working body supports him. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 34 votes to 14. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We have yet to decide on the fourth amendment to Article 77. The proposaler is the government, his mother's working body supports him. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the fourth amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 77 as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 43 votes, one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 78. The first amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the amendment does not support, noting that the amendment under number 1 is the same as amendment under number 2, the proposed amendment being the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group; and the amendment under number 3, the proposed amendment being the Committee for Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think that the proposal to withdraw the first indent of Article 78 in the first paragraph is that the creation and dissemination of programming content is fully supported by the local community. In fact, we will reach the mayor’s radio or the mayor’s television station or the television that the ruling party or the so - called coalition in local governments or in municipal councils will do. It's already a practice you can see, but it's not written. I think it's quite right for this first indent to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u217	I would like to remind you of the amendment we have adopted to Article 4 of the accident today, which was proposed by the parliamentary group, or the Victory of Jelinčič. In explanation of this amendment, which called for the following in the regions and local communities where non-commercial radio and television programmes operate, the State's support for local and regional programmes, and the explanatory statement reads as follows: "If Parliament's representatives ask themselves, but not just the presidents of the Presidency of individual parties, at which the media may appear uninterrupted and even free of charge in the event of confrontations and the like, they will appear and gather the votes of voters in individual constituencies, where, under such conditions, they will present themselves in the future." In short, we are now faced with the proposal that the local community should not support - but I am not talking about financial support for the media, because we cannot legalise this, because the local community has its own rules and laws - but that if local radio and television stations do not support them, they should be supported by the country from which they are expected to help us gain votes through them. In short, it's a contradiction in its perfect sense. I will say that in the 78th indent of article on the possibility of the local community supporting the creation and dissemination of programming content - I look with eyes, as always, and they do not have any political darkness. I am talking about the fact that the local community, which has its own station, must identify itself through this. That means he has to unlock it or corrupt it, which you all seem to think is. That is why I do not agree and I do not see any fear of the local community being actively involved in the programme, so that it appoints people to its councils or what we already have here or in the programming committees. With this, I do not see any political fear of any influence. Clearly, this is the primary projection of anyone who is afraid of what he is actually doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you very much. He wants to replicate Mr. Barovich. Then Mr Jože Tanko has the floor and he wants to explain to the government's representative, Mr Zorko. The replica first. Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u219	With all due respect to Mrs Majdi Shirca, who has a lot of experience, let me say that she has now mixed apples and pears. If we read carefully the explanation of Article 4, which has not even been given today, it is only an obvious that, or have you, many politicians used or benefited from the services of local and regional radio and television stations for free. Then why would the state - I say the country, because it was a country - not support them? In this case, we are talking again about practical - once again - cases, the local community can set up a regional or a television or local, and radio stations are only out of political interest that this is the sound of a party. But I can also give you some of these in plastic, but it doesn't belong to this law now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you. If this doctrine remains in Article 78, it is said that the local community is in charge or that it should create conditions for the dissemination and creation of programming content, then I think that the financial resource of the local community should also be provided, as no one is satisfied with the declaration of support alone. At least the media. And if this is so that it remains, then I think that resources should also be foreseen, although the proposal is different.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u223	Just to clarify. Article 78 refers to the acquisition of status. We propose that this condition for obtaining the status of a local radio or television station be deleted. Just because there have been as few political concerns as possible that we want to influence that if someone wants to get a little better status, that in addition to the programming requirements that we have, these are the quotas that we talked about, of course, that we should support, and if only morally or declarationsally, the local community such a programme. This does not mean that the local community cannot support such programs or individual stations, radio stations, television stations. It just means that this is not a condition for obtaining status. And absolutely nothing else. Of course, any local community can become such a institution, support it, whatever it may think is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. What Ambassador Barovich says, of course he is. And we know this very well in a variety of environments. However, it is true, on the other hand, that if the local community of these local media did not support that these local media could not operate in many ways. Perhaps it would then be good to consider by the third treatment in the home working body any additional provision that might prevent such and similar effects in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Skullsch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u227	These amendments, and in particular the position of the Secretary of State, open up one terribly important debate. I understand that people who have journalistic experience or different journalistic associations are afraid of this twisted hook of rope, if once, as it is called, they have been bitten by a serpent of politics. But look, from this branch, there's a terrible anti-politics. And that seems to me to be a very dangerous decision in the National Assembly. You have written in the following indent that a Programme Committee shall be appointed in which the interests of the local community in the field of economy, culture, education and sport and of the issuer of the Programme are represented. How, who will represent them? In other words, this is understandable, since it is a cultural chamber, both economic and other. I understand that there are conflicts between current authorities and the media, as there are conflicts between current authorities in municipalities, such as sometimes schools, libraries, theatres and so on. But, on the basis of this, as a Parliament, we as a parliament would express our distrust of the municipal system, and this is the argument that the government has, means that the government does not trust the Slovenian municipal system. I cannot vote for this alone, regardless of the large number I know, I will say, individual cases that speak in favour of saying that we should look, as Mr Sok said, for some other guards. But let's do this so easily that we don't actually trust those people who have been elected somewhere, whatever we think about them, that seems extremely dangerous to me. I therefore object to the deletion at this time of this amendment, irrespective of the conflicts it will cause in the registration. If there are other arguments, let us say, but in fact, if we do not agree that information or information in some sense can be judged by local communities, which I think is also one of their potential tasks, then something is wrong with all this discussion. This cannot be allowed by the National Assembly, which also holds discussions on local communities and the conditions they have to meet.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. In order, Mr Dorian Marshic, then the government representative, Mr Zorko, and then Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. I must say that I personally support the deletion of the first indent of the law, especially because the deadline for the programme content being supported by the local community is unclear - or the dissemination of programme content, I apologize - because it is not clear what this is. In our previous marriage, we had a dictatorship that said that an opinion or consensus was needed before a local radio station or radio broadcasting station was established in a particular area. Back then, the problem was that speculations in local communities were also taking place, that some were giving their consent and others were not. I don't want this line to mean anything like that. I think that the expansion of programming content in a particular area, especially since it can be applied to one or more municipalities, can in fact be done without this indent.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u231	Thank you. Let me just stress once again: it is only a matter of not being a condition if a local radio station or television station wants to receive the status of a local radio or television station; no one intends to prohibit any support from the local community to radio or television stations, nor material stations; no one intends to interfere with direct cooperation or non-cooperation; we just want that this is not a condition for registration or obtaining the status of such a station. This does not mean that this cooperation should not be that we wish to engage in any other way in the operation of local radio stations and their cooperation between local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u233	I'll support the government's amendment. The essence of local self-government is to regulate matters on its own or how a local community will be regulated and what it will do and what it will support and what it will not support. There is no need for us to have this provision in this law, so we can delete this first indent of the quiet soul. The municipality and the local radio station or the local television station will decide for themselves how to support or not to support each other. I think we can completely delete this.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogue!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u235	In this debate, I would only add this to the fact that there were very conflicting views on the Committee, as in the National Assembly. Some have even advocated the idea that local media co-founders should also be local communities, and then this is some kind of local community medium, such as a national media set up or established by a government or a state. On the other hand, the secretariat has pointed out that the dictatorship, such as in this first indent, which is the subject of this amendment, is very loose, as it is only stated here that it supports the local community. However, there is no indication whether it is the mayor's support or the support of the local community council or any local community committee. Since this dilemma remained, what does this mean in fact, the Committee has decided, as it has done, and has prevailed over more local interests than interests, this matter would be pure.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u237	I still think it's necessary to read the whole article, but I don't insist on it. But it's a little bit of a ruse on this line. On the other hand, you advocate that the interests of the local community in the field of economy, culture, education and sport must be expressed. So, everything except politics. It's like it's not some dimension that this medium is going to be, or whatever it is, writing and doing. So in this same article, when we look at the construction of the new solution, it means that everything else is, but not. That's, I'll say, what bothers me and why I used to be so sharp. The essence of this discussion is that we do not want to face different interests and, in fact, we are subject to only one interest again, as if it is not at another point of interest of the local communities, which are also those who express themselves either through the world or through the mayor or through other bodies. This is where I think we're moving a little bit. After all, it is only about registration, not about the obligation to finance. With this registration, you may then have ten local programmes in an area, if there is no such thing at once, because they are being transferred, and the obligation that the same party that proposes this would object to having these distributors intervene free of charge via cable. In fact, your amendment is substantively contrary to what you have previously advocated. So it seems to me to let these cable distributors face the activities of journalists and the assets of journalists with the financiers of these radio and other stations, and you will see that you need to look for a solution that will be consistent in all segments. I agree that there is a need to find a way out of this story when someone with political motives dictates to the media. I have no objection to such solutions. But it's not possible, and that's the point of my performance, politics getting completely out of this, as if it's not about the local community - it's about it! This is also a very interesting part of the event. That is why I also object to the State Secretary's argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u239	Thank you very much. This is the first time I've heard from this subject, and I don't know if I'm gonna do it again. However, I am not looking at this article or this provision, from listening to everything, any other than the legal logical one this time, not what will influence or will not, but legally logical. See, in the second indent it says that "this local radio or television station or program will provide objective and impartial information to the local community about..." and will describe what. We doubt whether this is supported by the local community, and we need a specific provision that the local community agrees to objectively and impartially inform the inhabitants of this local community of the economic, cultural, religious and other content in the local community. For this reason, in order to avoid, I say, offending the local communities now, I suggest we delete the first indent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 78. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. In favour of 23 votes to 13. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 78 has been adopted. Since the amendment is the same as amendment number two, we will not vote on amendment number two. So we're still voting on amendment number three. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. In favour of 29 votes to 1. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 78 as a whole. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 79. The proposal for the first amendment is Victory Jelinčič, the government opposes the amendment, the mother's working body does not support it. The amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the parent working body of the amendment is supported by the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote the first amendment to Article 79. We're voting. Unfortunately, we've become inconclusive. Please, colleagues and colleagues who may be in the lobby to join us. We'll be able to determine the presence again. There are 43 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is unconscionable and cannot make a valid decision. We're re-voting in 10 minutes. I'm adjourning the session and continuing at 4.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u241	Colleagues who may still be in the lobby of the hall, I ask you kindly to join us. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Since we suspended the session 10 minutes ago due to indiscretion, I respectfully ask you to insert the cards and thus try to ensure the conclusion of the National Assembly. We're picking up the presence! There are 50 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can decide in force. We have ended our decision on the two amendments to Article 79. We are now moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 79, whose candidate is Victory Jelinčič, the amendment's government opposes, the parent's working body does not support it. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 8, 35 against. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 79 has not been adopted. We're still moving on to a decision on the second amendment. The proposaler is the government, his mother's working body supports him. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 36 votes against 1. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 79 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 80. The first and third amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The parent working body of the amendment under 1 and 3 supports. The second amendment to the Government's amendment is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the third amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been adopted under three. We are still voting on Article 80 as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I find that the article is fully adopted We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 81. The first amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, its parent working body supports it. The proposal for the second amendment is Victory Jelinčič, the amendment's government opposes or does not support the parent's working body, with a note, if the amendment is adopted under one, this amendment is irrelevant. Under three is the amendment of the Victory of Jelinčič, which the government opposes and the mother's working body does not support. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. I'm putting the first amendment to the vote. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 2. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 81 has been adopted. The vote on the second amendment is irrelevant. We are moving on to a vote on the third amendment of the winner, Jelinčič. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 34. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the third amendment to Article 81 has not been adopted. We are moving to a vote on Article 81 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 82. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 5. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still in the vote on Article 82 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 5. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the title of Section II. Chapters. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 37 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also vote on Section II, Title 4. Chapters in whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 30 votes, one against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the title is fully accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the four amendments to Article 83. Amendment No. 1 is proposed by Rudolf Petan, the Government opposes the amendment, the mother's working body does not support it; amendment No. 2 is proposed by the Government of Jelinčič; the Government also opposes it, the parent working body does not support it; amendment No. 3 and 4 is supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of both amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 10 to 28. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 to 28. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the second amendment has not been adopted. We move to a vote on the third amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the fourth amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I take it the fourth amendment has been adopted. We are still voting on Article 83 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 84. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on Article 84 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 84 has been fully adopted. We are moving to debate and vote on the amendment to Article 86. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The mother's working body supports the amendment. However, it is linked to the amendment to Article 67, which we have not accepted. To refresh the memory, it is music expressed in the Slovenian rumor. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. I'd like to draw attention to what I've said. We agreed at the time that this term should be replaced by another term in the preceding article, but we said that since the article is open, this article will not be amended and the government will correct it in the third reading. Since we now have the only amendment to this article and if the government will fix it in the previous article, this article should also be opened. And in another article that I will vote on, we can correct the entire law with equal diction. I would therefore ask that we support this amendment without even discussing it, because we have already talked a lot about these two expressions.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Representative of the government, Mr. Zorko. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I pledge that by the third reading, together with the celebrities and others, we will try to find an appropriate dictatorship, so that this unfortunate expression, which no one really likes, will be replaced by a more appropriate expression, regardless of your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u246	[[...]] [[It's not understandable. It's not involved.]] a verb of the Slovenian term, as I have called it, but at the same time earlier said that when preparing the third reading, they would increase the proposed quota from 10 to at least 30. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 86. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 86 has been adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 86 as a whole. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against no one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 86 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 87. The first amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the amendment supports. The proposed amendment under the two is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, with a note, if the amendment is adopted under one, this amendment is irrelevant. The third amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of the amendment supports. We're moving on to the debate. Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The first paragraph of Article 87 reads nicely: "The broadcaster of each television programme must strive to ensure that Slovenian audio-visual works comprise an important proportion of the annual broadcast time." I understand this, as of course, Slovenian audio-visual production. Therefore, it is entirely illogical that in the second paragraph, the percentage to be achieved is 10 per cent. In general, if we look at Article 89, according to which the share of European audiovisual works as the starting minimum share is 25%. That is why our amendment, which I would certainly advise and ask my colleagues to support, speaks as is evident from our amendment, with the initial minimum share being own, the Slovenian production of 10% of the annual broadcast time, but of course more. I ask that this amendment be supported, because this means promoting Slovenian audiovisual production, which we can all claim is not as bad as it appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u250	We must not mix two concepts: one is the proportion of Slovenian audiovisual works and the other is its own production. Own production means production produced in the Republic of Slovenia, in short, by the issuer, plus that obtained on the European market. The one obtained on the European market, however, has a limited quota under the directive; the one created at home is now ascribed to us. The old bill, which I will say very, very much, will be an facilitating way of approaching this directive, because we know that these quotas are very low in our country, except for the national woman, who, as I said yesterday, reaches 63% of her own production in the first programme, or on average 40% in terms of both programmes, but when I talk about the other houses, the matter is very, very questionable. On the so-called commercial TV POP we will see that in the annual broadcast time there is not so much as a percentage of Slovenian audiovisual production. If you have to produce those 10% as prescribed by the law, you should do at least 500 hours a year or about one hour a day. From this, I see that the proposaler has reached a slightly softer variant, from the 87th article in the original text allocated, which says "at least 10%", now what the SNS Group proposes is substantially increasing to a minimum of 10% - the starting minimum, pardon, which is very important - while we are also meeting with another amendment of the government, which I think is worth supporting purely because of the softening, I will say, the inability in the current situation. When we are faced with the beginning of the operation of the law, which will be through the Fund and through support both in the infrastructure and content field of production of audiovisual domestic production, which will be legalised, these shares will be better possible in the future. They must become legal, and the question is whether our rigour is really necessary at this time, as is proposed by the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Government representative, Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Let me just tell you about the illustration. Audiovisual works consist of several elements, directorship, screenwriters, dramaturgy and so on. The production of these works is extremely expensive. This is also why commercial television, unfortunately, avoids such production. National television is a little more consistent or a little more domestic in this sense. When we checked these percentages, we found that one of Slovenia's commercial televisions, and the other is no better, this percentage has about 0.5%. Therefore, it seemed unrealistic to prescribe extremely high quotas because we believe that they could not be reached for at least a short period of time, because of money and also because of the number of authors. Of course, in Article 123, when we talk about speeding up this type of production, and by somehow forcing commercial television to some minimums, up to 5%, as we suggest, we want to accelerate such domestic production. However, we need to know that this production does not include, say, reports, sports broadcasts, TV games, quizzes and similar things. It's a more demanding production. That is why we have also proposed, after consultation with many who are familiar with this type of production, and also after consultation with commercial televisions, that this proportion should be at least a little more appropriate or closer to what we estimate is realistic in a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u254	Mr Secretary of State, I may not be hearing very well either, I haven't heard everything. When you listed a production that is not included in this percentage, you also said TV games and so on. Well, if that's the case, then maybe this percentage and it's transmitting, but maybe it's bigger. Otherwise, I wouldn't really be very yielding. It is right to take into account the real situation, but otherwise I would have transferred it to, say, other media. Like the magazines. You could say ours can stop writing, and we'll translate foreign. If we go to publishing, we can stop publishing Slovenian books and sell another, which brings some money. Anyone who sort of organizes these things seems to me to be responsible for, pathetically speaking, our own people. I think that this percentage, as the colleague said, may be this instant too high required by this parliamentary group, but otherwise this trend would seem necessary, not too much to deal with, but still require. I don't really see any other interest in things as some kind of cash. By having another problem with the same law, with the law that you are also dealing with, this is with copyright. Yes, for example, POP TV does not pay any copyright outside and we are actually made by the Balkans higher than Europe. Therefore, it seems to me that when we adopt this legislation, that we just adopt the rules of the game that have already been imposed on us, it makes no sense at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 87. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 33 votes to 11. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 87 has been adopted and therefore the amendment under the two has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 87. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We are still voting on Article 87 as a whole. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 88. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 88 as a whole. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 89, 90 and 92. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 89. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 89 as a whole. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 90. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the 90th Article as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 92. The first amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by its mother's working body, and proposed by the second amendment is the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 92. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 15. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 92 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 93, which is proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 7. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment to Article 93 to delete this amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 94. The proposaler is both government, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on Article 94 in its entirety. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 96. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will vote on Article 96 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. Looks like we're gonna have to do it again. So we're deciding again on Pardon! [[...]] Article 96 was voted in full by 46 Members and no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 98. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I am returning the debate to an article that I no longer know, but at the beginning we were talking about the incorrect transfer of the definition of what unpaid ads are. I therefore call on the third reading to specify exactly what these unpaid publications are in relation and so on, various presentations, from the works of art to the public services and so on introduced by this law, especially because they are now placed in Article 98, which sets the definition of unpaid advertisements, and at the same time undermines it by paragraph 5. In this respect, I am talking about an editorial in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I suggest you accept this amendment. In the third reading, we can then correct this mistake that Mrs Majda Shirca is talking about. This is Article 46, which has not been adopted, and then we can align these things editorially, so that in the third reading this will then be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 98. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 3. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will vote on the 98th whole. Right now, the screen shows us that we're inconclusive. Please look at your cards and your neighbors. Colleagues in the lobby who went to freshen up, I politely invite them to join us. Thank you so much for being right. We will again decide on Article 98 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 99. The first and second amendments are proposed by a group of Members, with the first signed by Rudolf Mohet, and the third amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The parent working body of this amendment does not support, with a note, if the amendment under number 2 is adopted, the third amendment is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're going through the decision-making process. We're voting first. All you can do is explain your voice, Mrs. Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u260	That is exactly what I wanted, an explanation of the voice, and I stress that this is an explanation of my vote. In short, the amendment is not so innocent. It is an intervention in the restriction of advertising, which says that RTV Slovenia can be included in the "prime time" in the basic law for 12 minutes. The proposed amendment shortens advertising to 9 minutes while introducing the possibility that RTV Slovenia has a sale, except between 18:00 and 23:00, this time should be called "prime time". I will not vote in favour of this amendment myself, because the discussions in the Slovenian space on financing and the manner in which the advertising space on RTV Slovenia was restricted in the end have always been carried out. Whatever the ratings in the jargon of commercial televisions or in general take away television, all of this will be necessary in some way to bring it in. The calculation of these consequences of possible limitation, even if the television in "prime time" does not reach 12 minutes, but can also occur in certain time periods, means a reduction in its current business opportunities. At the same time, I believe that television sales may not be suitable for public television in my opinion. Public television has statutory obligations, but they do not take to the satisfaction of so-called commercial, business programmes, which is television sales. This is, of course, a position that can be lonely. This may be a position, which may also mean undermining any interests, but, however, if television is sold, it is still happening more or less on other media, computers, transferring from the public sphere to another sphere, in short to local, regional or all others, especially commercial televisions, will make it easier for them to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote Mr Leo Kremjar and then Mr Švagan.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u262	I will vote against the first amendment because I think the basic text that limits this sale on RTV is better with 12 minutes. Indeed, we need to know that this RTV, as a national institution, will always be financed from a single bag, so to speak. The more we limit, taking into account everything national television and national radio are supposed to do, the more we limit marketing opportunities and activities, the more we will have to pay from subscription or other sources. Therefore, it seems to me that it is better to keep the basic text and not limit it to nine minutes. That is why I will also vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan, an explanation of the voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u264	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! I will support this article of the Media Act, which, of course, is also European-oriented. Finally, the restriction of national television sales is contrary to the law on the ratification of the European Convention on Cross-border Television and the Protocol amending the European Convention on Cross-border Television, adopted by this National Assembly on 15 June 1999. The Member States of the Council of Europe and of other States, the Parties to the European Cultural Convention and the signatories to this Convention shall also indicate in Article 12 the proportion of TV sales, advertising and other forms of advertising, except for television sales within the meaning of paragraph 3, which may not exceed 20% of the daily broadcasting time. The broadcasting time for advertising cartridges shall not exceed 15% of the daily broadcasting time. In the second point, this article also mentions the share of advertising cartridges and TV cartridges sold within one hour and must not exceed 20%. This Article is in line with this European document, which was also adopted by this Parliament. Of course, it also states that such windows must not be more than eight, since in article 98 we also state that it can, it is said, be a TV sale, only not between 6:00 p.m. and 2 p.m., which means that the average of two hours is a TV sale on the first or second program. I propose that such an article be adopted, including on the basis of the adoption of European legislation, which we refer to several times in this national assembly and also in the adoption of other laws or articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u266	I will vote in favour of this amendment for at least two reasons. Witnesses, letting national television have 12 minutes on the clock, that's 20% of the time for ads, and paid notices, I find it extremely distasteful. National television from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia collects with subscriptions at least - as I was told - about 20 billion tolars - gentlemen, well, 15. I was told before that law was passed by Mr Anderlič, Beumann and I on subscriptions, it was about 15 billion and several billion more, but now they say the latest figures are that about 20 billion will come this year. From the ads, another 4 billion, that's why I think it's too much. I think we have to let them market. What we've proposed here, these nine minutes, is 15% of all time per hour, they'll be able to broadcast these ads. There aren't even so many people who would give these ads to pay for them. Now they can't reach those 12 minutes. It seems to me that this extension for 12 minutes can be lobbying, that this activity can then spread indefinitely on television if they cannot get to the limit of good taste, but if I collect money from citizens, I should also give them, in my programme per hour, the main programme that is intended for the nation, not the paid ad or this notice. For this reason, I think it is wise that this amendment, or I will personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Suklje, as the first, and then Dr Andrej Bajuk, would also like to explain their vote. Here you go, Mr. Shuklje.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u268	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam President! I'll support the amendment myself. I think we need to enforce clean solutions. The solution provided for in this article is an unclean solution. But it's not about money or the question of minutes of advertising, it's about the physionomy of television that we want. Television was divided over time in different ways. Most of the time through whether they were financed by public money or were financed by commercial money. When we were able to determine last year's tax on television in general, we should be asking ourselves, at that point, a fundamental relevant question of what we want with national television. I think that the content that we want through national television, which we finance through tax, the content that we want to see at the time of the greatest viewing, is not the content that could carry large advertisements. On the contrary, there are content that should encourage us to ask the basic questions: who we are, where we come from, what we speak. These are the contents to be found at this time. National television is not a television that will deal with TV sales, which some, including my fellow Members, advocate, is not a television that primarily deals with how many minutes of propaganda space it will have, for a simple reason, because we want to pay it out of our money and give it every month. That is why I support the amendment by my fellow Member, Mr Rudi Mojet and the other co-signers. I think that the relevant question for the world of RTV and television management is the programme that national television wants to have on the first network and what programme it wants to have on the second network; whether the second network is only a substitute for content that cannot be put on the first network for a certain period of time, or whether the second network can be different and more targeted in physionomy for what we are talking about today. So it is also more focused on some other content, which could also transmit more advertising and other programmes. My vote is, of course, an amendment that was tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrey Bajuk, a voice explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I'll support this amendment, too. I think what my colleague Shuklje said is crucial. Why do we even have a national? People can, today Slovenia already has a very wide offer, as far as that is concerned. If you want to watch the propaganda of all kinds, you have this option, and you have the opportunity to watch foreign television via cable. I don't think it makes any sense to give me, if this option opens up, 20% of the time for commercial purposes, that we're actually doing a bad service to the project itself, the very existence of a national. I think it's crucial that we limit this, because it's also about quality. If the nationalist is as good as we want her to be, her ads will also be able to sell slightly better than other commercials, which will offer 50% of their time for commercial ads alone. I think we need to back this up. We have to limit, but of course we will have the chance to have some more discussions as far as our RTV is concerned. If we take this argument and extremis, then let us resolve all restrictions. Then why do we have a national? I think we need to support this, and I hope we have enough votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We'll vote on the first amendment first. This is an amendment by a group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet. We're voting. Please, mate, if, I think it's strange that we're just this moment, and no one's moved out of the room, they were done. Thank you so much for being right. We're detecting a presence. There are 48 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can vote on a valid basis. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 99, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 44.5 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment, the same candidate. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the second amendment has also been adopted and therefore the vote on the amendment under three has become irrelevant. We will also vote on Article 99 in full. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment for the new Article 99a. The proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Article 99a is likely to have its weight and its validity. Again, I say from practice that at least in point two - the prohibition of the previous paragraph also applies to journalists and reporters, radio programmes of RTV Slovenia - we need to have a slightly more precise dictatorship. As I am familiar with the national radio, the leaders of the reports are also "speakers", whose component is reading ads. I mean, in practice, he's going to do quite a few things. I would therefore suggest to the government, if there is no other solution, that, by the third reading, this should, of course, be specified in detail today. I only gave an example from the national radio house because I know that the term leader is given to, say, a reader, "speaker", whose constituent description is also reading advertising messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We decide on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 99a. We're voting. We're inconclusive again. Dear fellows and fellows! I think that this information is almost impossible, given that we have recently made a valid decision, but no one has actually left the Chamber but one. Therefore, I ask that you be correct for the last half hour of today's work so that we can continue. Thank you very much. We're rediscovering presence. There are 51 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can make a valid decision. We decide on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 99a. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 43 votes, one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment to the new Article 99a has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 100. The first amendment is proposed by the Committee, the second proposed by the Government, noting that the amendment under number 2 is covered by amendment number 1 and that if amendment under number 1 is adopted, we will not vote on amendment under number 2; and the amendment under number 3 of which the proposer is the Government and the parent working body supports it. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the first amendment has been adopted; we will not vote on the second amendment. We move to a vote on the third amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against 7. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a full vote on Article 100. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 7. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the title of Section II. Chapters; the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 5. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also vote on Section II, Title 6. Chapters in whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 5. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I find that the title is fully accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 101. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 33.5 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the amendment to delete the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 102. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Again, we find ourselves unconscionable, yet no one has left the hall. Please, if you do see if the cards are properly inserted to re-detect presence, otherwise we will have to stop in 10 minutes. Thank you so much for being right. We're picking up the presence! There are 45 of us present, which means the National Assembly is open, so I'm adjourning the meeting in 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5:40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u274	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I ask you politely to take your seats, to try to work successfully for the last 20 minutes. Please insert the cards, because we will rediscover the presence. We're detecting a presence. There are 49 of us present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and can make a valid decision. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 102. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 5. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport to Article 103. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 30 to 8. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the five amendments to Article 104. All five amendments have been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all five amendments have the support of the parent working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 6. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 7. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 36, 6 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the third amendment has been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 6. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the fourth amendment has been adopted. We move to a vote on the fifth amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 6. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the fifth amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 104 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against 7. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Here you go, Dr. Bayuk, you want a procedural decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u275	Yes, thank you very much. Just one question to the government. I've actually raised my hand before, but you didn't notice. I'm sorry, I'm going to try to show up in some way by seeing me or hearing me. In fact, I have only one question for the government - this has already been adopted. But here are two concepts of expertise that I find hard to understand. There's one in the fifth - it's about respectable experts. In the first, however, we received independent experts. Here we already have three categories of experts: one is reputable, the other is unreputable, one is defined, and the other is undeclared. It's a shame we've already taken it this way because I find it completely inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u276	Here you go, Government Representative, Mr. Zorko.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, in the first amendment, we're talking about an independent expert body -- they're talking about a world for broadcasting. But in the fifth, we don't use other terms. So we're talking about the body once, like the organ, and the second time, we're talking about people. That's why I don't think that's the opposite of each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please note that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u279	Thank you very much. However, I am very grateful that the government accepts the concept that they are also dependent experts and also some of them insolent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments, namely the amendment to the government's amendment to the new 105.a. article, the drafter of which is the parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia - this amendment is not under review, but you have received it on the bench - and the amendment for the new 105.a article of which the proposer is the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I'm asking the government a question. 105.a., on page 39, it reads as follows: under 1, "a member of the world can be dealt with prematurely," and then the above matters are listed, and the fourth is a bit strange, at least I do not understand it, "if it no longer meets the conditions for a member of the world", the rest is listed. What does that mean? I understand the others, but I really don't. Is this a moral marriage?
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u283	Thank you very much. So if it does not, it means that, for example, it is no longer in the press line, if we are talking about the last indent where it speaks, the candidates in the field of journalism and communication, if, for example, he has changed his profession or becomes an MP or something like that. In short, we are not talking about moral and political appropriateness or inappropriateness, but if one of these four or, yes, four proposers finds that it no longer represents their interests or whatever, because he has decided, I don't know, to change his profession or something else, which was contrary to that purpose. This does not mean a determination of political appropriateness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I think it would be wise to prepare all the laws to look for certain points of order in articles that are similar in all laws. That's one of those articles. Competitive and other clauses entered into by law should be approximately the same. Whether it is a media law, or whether it is a company law, another law, these things should be subject to approximately the same criteria or the same definition of the terms under which such consequences are to take place. Here it seems to me that it is quite without order imposed within these five indents, for example, the last, "if there is no unjustifiable participation in the meetings of the world". What kind of specific criterion is that? Why is it right here and like that? I don't think there are any general qualitative criteria, it's about a conviction, say, for a crime, all the laws I know know know that in Slovenia, for example, the working ability is normal and so on, or in the event of death, as some write. I think that 'a la carte' is, I would say, the selection of individual indents in individual laws on the same subject is unjustifiable and creates in some way confusion in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to such a topic. It would be very useful for the government to unify its position when it comes to such articles, where it does not have to be very original in a particular area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I will not get involved in any further discussion, but I must say that I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Gaspari. He explained this as a former finance minister very professionally. But I think this is where the government got involved in some unnecessary and vague formulations. I therefore think that Mr Gaspari has reacted perfectly and I am joining his opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to the government amendment, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 12, against 27. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a new 105.a. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 30 votes to 11. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the government's amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 106. The amendment supports the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 7. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will vote on Article 106 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 7. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 107. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 32 votes against 9. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 108. The proposaler is the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 7. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment to Article 108 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 109. The proposer is the government, the mother's working body supports him. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 7. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 110. Both are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the parent working body of both amendments supports. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We'll vote on the first amendment first. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes to 9. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 36 votes against 7. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We decide on the 110th article as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 7. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 111. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 34 to 8. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 112. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 34 votes against 6. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 113. The proposaler is the government, the parent working body of the amendment supports. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I am interested in the fact that the government has also adopted - or will adopt - the so-called anti-biocratic programme if government representatives can answer me whether these articles, which are listed under 113 and 114, are in line with these principles, which reduce those bureaucratic or administrative procedures that are not necessary for the quality of the work done. I have a feeling, after what I can read in the amendments to 113, and especially Article 114, that is not necessarily the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u291	All these proposals went to interdepartmental coordination there was no comment by any sector, nor did the Government's Law Service. The opinion of this service is that all these procedures, or all these permits, opinions and consents, as well as the documents referred to in Articles 113 and 114, are necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u293	Addictive. I will give an example, for example, in Article 113, paragraph 3: "The Agency shall issue the authorisation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article within 15 days of receipt of the full application." First of all, we don't know what the perfect role is, and second of all, we don't know what happens if it doesn't come out in 15 days. A typical example of administrative procedures, such as construction and other permits, where the administrative authority simply does not respond and there are no consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Government representative, Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u295	More specifically. With regard to the issuance of decisions on the allocation of frequencies or on the authorisation to carry out this activity, when the frequency is not allocated, the law on telecommunications and broadcasting shall be laid down. So we're only mentioning some of those cases that are just about the media. However, if this amendment is adopted, we can, of course, re-examine it by the third reading, whether all these things are as necessary as they are, and also comply with the Telecommunications Act, because they are more precisely regulated or determined there than in our law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Madam President, I fully agree with what colleague Gaspari has said. Sadly, the government did not answer the essence of his question. Of course it's all coordinated, yes, but if it isn't, we wouldn't even be able to take it here. And that's the problem with being so coordinated and so complicated that we're actually going to write another law where we're going to get all these procedures that don't serve anyone but bureaucracy into law. The government replied, this is where it goes to the second reading, this is the second reading for the third reading. Here is my question: this is not the first time today that we are here 'wario legis', that is, the opinions that are said here must in some way be binding on the government. I don't think we should take this the way it is. We need to adopt such a text so that we do not adopt in the third reading any text of such procedures, which will not really go through normal coordination, but through this new procedure, which will eliminate senseless bureaucratic requirements. Because if not, I really don't understand, Madam President, what this means. A colleague from a national party has already said one very smart thing, and we are now waiting for a third hearing. Is this binding to the government or not? How it's gonna be. I would ask that we add something and for third reading we demand that this whole procedure be reviewed within the framework of the government's anti-library programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Of course, I agree that all this procedure and all these provisions can be reviewed in accordance with this government programme and also, of course, in accordance with other matters. I must point out that we have just deleted a whole bunch of articles a few minutes ago, where all these things have been distributed at different ends, and that it is only united in one article of what was previously at more than one end. That's the first time. Second of all, we have a media show. Every media publisher or media publisher must report to the media and we have some information listed there that each publisher has to report to the media so that we know what kind of media it is and so on and so on. If I look at Article 114, we are essentially just defining what is absolutely necessary for us to know who the media is, what is the name of the programme, the programming conditions, the definition of the coverage area, the typical standard operation of telecommunications and so on and so on. These are things that are necessary to get a clear picture of what the media is about, what this medium should do and should do, and of course also to enable us to monitor or remotely broadcast the world by means of a telecommunications and broadcasting agency to monitor the functioning of this medium or to meet the conditions prescribed by the law. Therefore, I do not think that this data or these procedures are so, nor are they so extensive or complicated as to constitute any material problem or that the procedures for the issue of all licences would significantly delay or prevent potential issuers from coming for authorisation to carry out their activities within a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u300	Mrs Shirca, then Mr Jelinčič and Mr Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u301	One of the reasons why this law has been so consistently corrected in this area is that the current law on public newspapers permits - and the broadcasting world can be very hard on you - a huge breach in the area of frequency space. The frequency's pretty good. At this point in the 21st century, the frequencies should still be understood as gold, it is said, to continue to act as the public good that the state must protect. In this context, I believe that the conditions set out here are not more precisely harmful, especially because, now, with all the infringements and with all the power of the country, when it cannot be sanctioned, it is necessary not to control them, even as a result of, I will say, the loopholes of the existing law need to be regulated. Maybe I'll be the first to say here that some bureaucracy is necessary in this area. Otherwise, there would not be as wild a space as it is in the frequency space of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u302	Mr Jelinčič and then Mr Gaspari, and then I propose that we conclude this day with a general debate on these amendments and proceed with the decision tomorrow. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think here the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to take us thirsty across the water, both in 113rd and 114th. I think that in the Western democracies to which you gentlemen are bountifully citing and drawing attention to their legality, legality, legitimacy and democracy, there is one system of legal simulation in these institutions that shows what matters in real life. That's why I think here the government simply wanted us to drive the thirsty across the water, thinking that they had more than a two-thirds majority, and eventually they're going to vote all together no matter what's to be proposed. Therefore, simply put, we will not support even 113th and even less 114th. However, I think it would be absolutely necessary for the government to be careful, however, to start treating the National Assembly as an institution that is, in fact, an institution over a government that sets and directs the action, not that they consider us an pendant. By counting on more than a two-thirds majority, simply "unblock" is pressing us to vote only "yes". We will certainly not vote in favour of these articles and I think that this is bad if anyone votes for these articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspari, then we'll finish for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if you are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u306	Mr. Gaspari, I'm sorry. The procedural proposal that Mr Moge wishes to make has priority.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u307	Please check attendance.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u308	Mr. Mogue, my conclusion was that we will no longer make decisions today. It was my duty to give the word to two other applicants. After Mr Gaspari has given his debate, we will finish the work of the National Assembly after two notifications. Mr. Gaspari, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u309	Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues if that seems irrelevant. In practice, I think this can be very important. We have already written many laws and adopted them, which in practice then show that the procedure does not run as it should or is running for much longer than the standard we want to approach. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary, for the first time, for the third reading - I myself will propose a decision at the end of the consideration of this law, which will require the Government to submit a case for the issue of one registration or another procedure carried out by the Agency, a sample, and to determine how long it takes. That's the first one. Secondly, that the Government responds to the National Assembly, whether, at the time of the adoption of legislation, which also has elements of administrative procedure, it will address uniform practice in determining the powers and their implementation in practice. This is an anti-biocratic programme in its essence, not only in the area of economic issues, but also in such a way as this. That's where the supervisory function is. Thirdly, I think it is imperative that both Article 113 and Article 114 for the third reading achieve such a dictatorship, which will tell and very clearly determine what will happen if the body does not respond within the time limit prescribed by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2001-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-03.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Please allow two more notices. First. Dear, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the distinguished public! Members of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly asked me to read the following press release. A protest against violence against journalists. "When adopting a law on media that strengthens freedom of public information, the right to information and freedom of expression, Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemn the physical attack on journalist Vecer, Mira Petk, as far as this is due to his journalistic work. Even though writing a journalist is uncomfortable for some individuals, the public has the right to comprehensive information, we condemn this physical violence and will condemn any other forms of pressure against the right of journalists to freedom of expression in the future. Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia hope that the law enforcement authorities will briefly investigate and explain the background of this attack and track down perpetrators, especially if their actions were directed against the autonomous and free expression and dissemination of opinions, since without effective protection of journalists there are no free media. Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia!" Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to inform you that tomorrow the National Assembly will address the following items of the agenda, at 10 a.m., starting with today's 13th item of the agenda, then continuing its consideration of agenda items 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 24a, 30 and 32. Thank you so much for your attention and good night!
