ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! The clock is such that the principles of business excellence tell us that we have to start. I begin the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by a colleague, Janja Klasinc, and also by Mr Matjaž Zanoskar, from 3 p.m. on. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 2nd item of the agenda, as well as the candidate and candidates for the Minister and Ministers, to the 2nd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 7 February 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of each item from the agenda and the proposal for an extension of the agenda, so I suggest to the assembly that today's meeting set a agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check for voting devices. We will therefore vote on the agenda. We're starting the vote. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's on a defensive request for a legal referendum on the family code. On 3 February 2012, Mr Aleš Primc, Head of the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights, submitted a request to the National Assembly for a legislative referendum on family law. With regard to this request, we will consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the family code drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, namely the working body, to the chairman of the committee of Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u2	On 4 February 2012, more than 40,000 voters and voters submitted a request to the National Assembly for a legislative referendum on the Family Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 16 June 2011. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 22 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall hold a referendum within 7 days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the Act on the Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum, the act to be decided at the referendum, the text of the question to be raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative from the date of the invitation to tender, this is 13. 2. 2012, until the day of the vote, it shall not be less than 30 days and not more than a year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly, by a simple majority, may decide, for the day of the vote, to be at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. On this basis, the voting day shall be Sunday, 25 March 2012. The Act of Call for Referendum shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, he has the word mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! I give the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on family law. On the basis of the provisions of the Constitution, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should, within certain deadlines, issue a referendum representing the democraticity of the legislative procedure in the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we will respect this legitimate and democratic right, which was served by the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights in this particular law by collecting the signatures of 40,000 voters. Therefore, the proposed decree, which describes the legislative referendum and sets out the date of the start of the remedial actions for its implementation and the final date of the referendum, will be supported. The practice of the National Assembly in its previous term of office, when considering the decisions on the call for referendums, was mainly to talk about the content of the law itself, which was the subject of the referendum decision, which we estimate in the DeSUS Group, is contrary to the role it should play in this particular case, so to speak, only a procedural act should have a National Assembly. For this reason, I do not want to put the DeSUS Group's position on the law itself, since the decision on its application and fate is now directly within the people's hands. We also want to urge the organisers of any party's campaign to be particularly patient, carried out in the light of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, without the use of hate speech and the abuse of the ideological beliefs of individuals. We hope that voters will not decide on the basis of stereotypes, but on the basis that this code, as a whole, pays more attention to the child and its safety and benefits than can be attributed to the rules in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The creation, treatment and adoption of the family code date back almost a decade ago, as the need for such a code appeared in 1994, again in 2004. In 2007, even before the adoption, the code was withdrawn. In today's position of the SLS Group, I will intentionally not touch more closely on the content that we have discussed very thoroughly since the beginning of the discussion of this Code since 2009. During all this time, calls were organised both with a public letter to the Minister and the President of the Government and also in many debates here in Parliament, when we warned the representatives of the SLS that the Code on the Protection of the Rights of Children for us and probably for most societies is acceptable and necessary. And that is why it seems completely unnecessary for you to change the definition of marriage and the concept of family in the same code. There was no legal or factual need for such a move. This foundation cell of our society should remain defined as so far – as a community of children and parents. With the family code, you put us completely needlessly in the face of a basic dilemma, or support the efforts of the same-sex community after a full equal treatment of children as well, or put yourself on the side of the child and its primary right to two educational concepts, to the father and the mother. We believe in the Slovenian People's Party that it is possible to avoid all the unproductive, long-term and even impatient debates that we are witnessing. In the end, we could also avoid any costs incurred by the organisation and the implementation of the referendum. Because, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are only about 6 articles of the total 315 articles of the whole code in the public debate. It seems extremely unreasonable to us that it has not been possible to agree on these disputed articles in a long-term process to date, to amend them and at the same time to implement all the other necessary provisions without a referendum. The funds we will spend on the referendum could be diverted to any of the social registers. It is sad that we must decide on the fundamental values and benefits of children who depend on us at the referendum, but when it is clear that we cannot and should not try to change natural laws with laws or referendums. I hope that voters will go to the referendum responsibly, thinking that we are deciding the future of our children, grandchildren and grandchildren. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we can only find out that unfortunately there is no way back and we will decide on the code at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! To begin with, it may be a shame that the opportunities for clarifying their position are not also given to the candidates of the referendum, which is Primč's civil initiative, in line with practice, when, among other things, this opportunity was given to the union gentleman. But despite this, I would say the following that in New Slovenia we regret that all the parties have rejected the compromise proposal recently launched by the Family Initiative very quickly and on a flat-rate basis. We estimate that a referendum could be avoided if we were ready to talk. I'm afraid you weren't ready. Given that we have started a new mandate, we could at least try to talk. We may nevertheless find that our positions are too divided, but given that we have started a new mandate, it would be worth trying, implementing and implementing the compromise proposal of the Family Initiative. I am aware, however, that some parties have not been prepared to do so because they simply have a referendum. Of course, a question is immediately asked here and you will ask us why we then collected signatures for the referendum, and my answer is very simple. For us as an extraparliamentary party at the time, this was the only way and the only form of political pressure that we have also achieved that the existing family code has improved and improved, we can also admit that. Of course, it still contains some very problematic articles. As we are discussing decrees today, I would not go into the content itself, but I am aware that heavy words will fall primarily on our account in the campaign. I am ready to be measured by the impatience, the homophobia, the fundamentalists, and I do not know what else, but I will now make it very clear that Nova Slovenija has absolutely nothing against same-sex, if their status and situation are inadequately regulated, it needs to be better regulated. Let me also make it very clear that Nova Slovenija has nothing against single-parent families. The country must be particularly sensitive to their situation. Of course, we want different forms, you have just heard, different forms of family happy, and especially for children as bright a future as possible. Of course, we will support the referendum resolution, but perhaps the negative outcome of the referendum will be a good opportunity to further improve this family code.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the view of Positive Slovenia, the family code follows changes in society and adequately protects both the Constitution of guaranteed human rights and of course the rights of children. That is why we supported the family code in Positive Slovenia during the election campaign and we also support it today. Also because it follows the diversity and complexity of family life and summarizes the universal definition of family adopted by the United Nations during the International Year of the Family 1994. The text of the Family Code, and I stress this, does not discriminate against anyone, does not take anything from anyone, and especially does not put anyone in an exclusive position. The family code is based on a child and his rights, a child who lives in a community with adults or more adults who care for him and who form a family with him. A family in which trust, care, love, and understanding are based. On the basis of these principles, disagreement with the content of the Code for Positive Slovenia is difficult to understand. For the initiators of the referendum, the issue of regulating relations in the living communities of same-sex persons and their children is problematic. Incentives of the referendum are therefore merely to limit the rights of a minority, even at the expense of children. Let us therefore point out once again that the Code does not allow the adoption of children to same-sex couples, as some persist in repeating. If the child already lives in such a family and is one of the parents of his biological parent, his/her partner may adopt him. It is therefore the right of children who must not be discriminated against because of the sexual orientation of their parents. In Positive Slovenia, we want and expect the referendum campaign to be based on arguments, no exclusion and discrimination of families, no hate speech or negative campaign, which has already been unjustifiably addressed. I therefore call on everyone to refrain from child abuse for political and ideological purposes in the coming campaign. In Positive Slovenia, we will actively participate in the referendum campaign and will strongly convince people that on the referendum Sunday, interestingly, on Mother's Day, they decide for children and their rights. That is why I also call, I hope today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the protection of these rights to be actively involved in the campaign and to support the family code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u12	The family code adopted in June last year contains many good solutions, so it is bad that we did not know how to unify ourselves around those less good solutions. For this reason, we have objected to the adoption of a family code in the SDS Group, although it is one of the fundamental laws governing family relations that are the foundation of every society, nation and country. Therefore, it would be good for them to unite around it and at least accept it in the vast majority, but not to cause serious divisions, to become even a means of ideological separation and also an object of the referendum. I estimate that in the previous mandate, with more dialogue and respect for professional arguments and views, things could have gone differently. Who's a civilian initiative of 22. 6. notices to the National Assembly on the initiative to apply for a legislative referendum, followed by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič to the National Assembly, submitted a proposal for a decision, which was also adopted in September, requesting the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutional consequences that would result from the postponement of the application of the law or which would result from the rejection of the family code. On 8 December 2011, the Constitutional Court decided to reject the request and allow the referendum. That means the referendum will now. We have before us the Order on the Call for a Referendum and we will support it in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! On 16 June 2011, after more than a year of lengthy debates, we adopted a family code. The compromise content of the family code was adopted, which brings solutions that we considered acceptable to the general public, while still ensuring adequate protection of human rights in accordance with the Constitution. More specifically, this means that we have defined the marriage union or the extramarital community only as a community of men and women. Similar communities of same-sex partners with the same rights, however, we have named them in terms of the partnership and the non-partnership community and have defined them in specific articles. It is also a compromise to define the right to adopt. For same-sex couples, the family code allows adoption of a child partner, not a child whose biological parent is not one of the same-sex partners. Regrettably, the proposals for the Family Code of Amendments introduced by the compromise proposal were too small for opponents and therefore the Civil Initiative for the Family and the Rights of the Children was 22nd. 6. 2011 tabled an initiative to call for a follow-up legislative referendum. On the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, we have proposed that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the weighty arguments that we have drawn on the 35 pages of the judgment, should, by suspending the application and possibly rejecting the law at the referendum, have constitutional consequences. The decision of the Constitutional Court is well known and it has concluded that the contrary consequences of rejecting the Code at the referendum cannot arise because, even without a referendum, the law would not be enforced in practice until one year after its entry into force. So it's for procedural reasons. With such a justification, the Constitutional Court avoided the substance of the problem, namely the judgment or the family code, which really eliminates the alleged anti-constitutionalities. Since the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected, the referendum must be carried out. In the meantime, pending the submission of the request for a referendum, we were informed of the initiative of another civil society organisation, the Family Initiative, which, by the way, also participated in the debate, namely the proposal to avoid the referendum by adopting a commitment to amend the family code on the basis of their compromise proposal. The initiative was rejected by three parliamentary groups representing the majority of the parliamentarians of this current reference. Members of the Social Democrats have rejected it because we have assessed that the proposal represents a compromise only by name, but not by content, although the applicants have accompanied it with the words that it does not take anything from anyone, it is far from true. A more detailed analysis of the content has shown that the so-called compromise proposal only entails a drastic reduction in the rights that the same-sex partners are subject to the adoption of the family code, even so far as to propose a reduction of rights in the existing legislation governing the situation of same-sex partners. The compromisers considered that the same-sex partners should exercise each right separately, from the case to the case, under the sectoral laws, which are at least 30. I can only imagine how long it would take to achieve the same health, social and other rights that belong to us who live in heterosexual communities. The compromise proposal below also included the deletion of the definition of non-partnership communities, which are the equivalent of the extra-marital community and which are of different sexes, which is constitutionally controversial. Let me stress that for the Social Democrats, the adoption of the family code represents the only possible compromise, which is a compromise that we cannot and must not miss, because there is an inextricable limit – the same human rights and fundamental freedoms that are guaranteed to all people in this country by Article 14 of the Constitution. Human rights are not goods to be traded or negotiated with, so we rejected the proposal of the Family Initiative, although we were aware that this meant an invitation to a referendum. The motion for a referendum Civil Initiative for Family and Child Rights, which collected the required number of 14 thousand signatures, submitted an application for a referendum on 4 February. On the basis of this fact, today we have before us a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the family code to be implemented on 25 March 2012. Given that all the conditions for the adoption of such a decree have been met, the Social Democrats will also support the decree. In a patient and reasoned referendum campaign, which has always been characteristic of us, we will try to tell people that the family code, the basic content of which follows professional origins and real life practices in Slovenian society, represents a reform of family law, which led to the improvement of the legal and actual situation of children in our country, no matter what form of family they live in. The family code brings greater protection, more security and family rights to all children, and I am an adult with the right to choose for ourselves the form of association or community in which we want to live, and the same rights arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished fellow Members! In the Civil Gazette, we defend the right of every child to a family and everyone to free choice. All children must have the same rights regardless of whether they live in a family with their father and mother, with only one parent, in a foster home, in an same - sex family, or in another way. Each one is precious, and each one of us has the right to shape it as he wants. During the pre-election period we supported the family code because it protects all children as well as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. He doesn't take anything from anyone. Traditional family doesn't hurt. However, certain common people are helpful as some in practice are formally governed by a living community. We are disappointed that signatures have been filed for the invitation to tender for the legislative referendum by the Civil Initiative Aleš Primac. The family code was adopted as a compromise last June, we are now making a decision on its fate on the shoulders of citizens and citizens, and we are wasting state money needlessly. Oh, but. The referendum as a form of direct democracy is permissible, so the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also ruled in this particular case. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that this code is worthy of all support. The proposed date of implementation is March 25th, right on Mother's Day, a holiday dedicated to all mothers. I emphasize, all mothers. Whether it be a mother in a so - called traditional family, a single mother, or a mother in an extramarital or partner community. In the 21st century, we encounter various forms of family and the family code can be the mirror of our society, today’s society. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a decree. The first one has the word "magic." Alenka Bratusek, and for her, a mag. Majda Potter. Mag. Alenka Bratušek is giving up. Mag. Majda Potrat, please, your word, for her Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I find it difficult to agree that there was no discussion of the family code. For two years we talked about the content of the family code and in many ways agreed that it was difficult to regulate a marriage that was a personal relationship. In accordance with Article 53 of the Constitution, however, the State has an obligation to take care of the family, respect and strengthen motherhood, fatherhood. And it seems to me that there is a lot of deceiving when some people in the family code want to see rules that devalue a traditional family and take into account the validity of motherhood and paternity. I am aware that the right to a referendum required by citizens and citizens with signatures is an important right and a civilisation achievement, so today I will also support the call for a referendum. However, responsibility has been given to those who have taken the initiative to collect signatures and who, even during the gathering of signatures, have, in many cases with very misleading opinions, obtained people to decide that we would actually make a majority decision on the minority. It is not just so much the emphasis of the same-sex partnership. The compromise proposal, which is supposed to be an obstacle or a departure from the envisaged referendum, contained another inequality that we are not talking about so much. The compromise proposal did not seek to change the definition of the family, which was previously most frequently reported, but rather pursued the definition of marriage. And in the name of free choice, I object to this very valuable judgment when marriage makes sense. For the compromise proposal also contained a definition of what actually makes sense in marriage. And here the purpose of the marriage was only related to reproductive function. But marriage has a number of other functions. And a country that gives something to the well-being of its citizens and citizens should equally support any solution that gives people a sense of security, acceptance and all those things that are not ideologically conditional. It is therefore confusing that a compromise proposal has been proposed and that those who did not want to accept the compromise proposal bear responsibility for the referendum, which is misleading. The responsibility for the referendum lies with those who have encouraged the gathering of signatures, and it is up to citizens and citizens to listen to the arguments. I am sure that the Social Democrats, together with all those who advocate the benefits of children, will be able to convince us that the family code is worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić has the floor, followed by mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will find this: that the invitation to a legislative referendum on the family code is actually a referendum on fundamental human rights. Unfortunately, in capitalism, rights also represent market goods – better than marketing, better selling or buying rights. Disagreement with the content of the family code means this — the negation of fundamental human rights. Unfortunately, we are people of nature who are too late to realize that, at the moment of mental confusion, we have decided to buy something that we do not really need, so I appeal and urge citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia not to possess marketing that is against the family code, because human rights are not market goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jožef Kavticnik and Mrs Tamara Vont have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! As I am often proud and glad to be Slovenian in the success of our various talents, athletes, artists, inventors, I am at such events as today's, sad and disappointed. We have already spent a lot of energy and time, and, at least so it shows, we will still spend it in front of the eyes of the Slovenian public, in front of children, teenagers, adults, in front of the cultural world, exposing a group of individuals who are different from most in our space, in light and under the title that it is a child. Can the law determine which one of the biological parents is more loving to the child? Among other things, the book on children's rights says: "All children are equal. Parents or adults who care for them must provide such conditions so that they can develop healthyly. No one has the right to abuse, exploit, expose or neglect a child. The child must grow up in the family environment, in the atmosphere of happiness, love, understanding and so on." In the process of collecting signatures, individuals have used and exposed a child, once who has a father and a mother and therefore lives, in quotations, in a complete family. At the meeting he even appeared dressed in Slovenian symbolic clothing. By doing so, we have given a dark fox to a child who has a different mother or a different father than most, and that is why he will have or will receive certain restrictions in the law. And why is he even going? It's about ideology. And I don't believe that it looks at everything or every child. There'll be a lot of emotions in the campaign. But from history, we know what happens when feelings flare up between the crowds. So far, irreparable damage has been done, no consequences can and will never be measured. In a child’s personality, we cannot just look at a person’s personality, so it is also unacceptable to play with the means that hurt and harm a person’s personality. Every stigmatization of a father or mother is extremely intensely emotional for their child. And a law that can be acceptable to all is broken, interesting, at points that deal with an extremely small percentage of people who are different. It's like throwing away or leaving a car with a damaged mudbag. I appeal to all citizens and citizens to go to the referendum and not to give support to those who have submitted and to support this code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u23	Thank you. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor. For her, the mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Society is a living organism and within it dynamic processes of change are taking place. Even in forms and also in ways of living together. That's a fact. That's what happened. This is our reality. And the main task of the legislation is to follow this reality and these changes in order to protect those who have fallen out of the living legal framework in the whirlwind of changing realities, who are unprotected and with their basic human rights. This is the purpose of the family code, everything else is a mere ideological mess. Don't sit on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Thank you. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožič, followed by Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members! Of course, it would be wise and wise, as has been said today, to use the funds earmarked for the referendum, for social programmes, for culture, for health care and for anything else necessary in our society, but it is up to the referendum's proponents themselves to ask. However, I personally believe that the key purpose of the family code I support is to protect the interests of children in different forms of family. Allow me to serve in this place briefly with some statistics so that we know what families we are dealing with in the Republic of Slovenia. Married couple with children – 237 thousand 422, which makes up 55%. Single-parent families have Slovenia 143 thousand 129, 33%, extra-marital partners with children 49 thousand 122, 12%. In all the things that have been said and all the differences that have been overcome not only by Slovenian society, but also by the global world, I once again support the proposal for a family code. The kind he is. And I also call on the Slovenian public to take part and surround the referendum, if it has already been imposed on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor, followed by mag. Leila Hercegovac. Mr. Frangež is not in the hall. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, for her mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I respect all initiatives for the family and children's rights, I support every family where the child is happy, where he feels safe and lives in a loving environment. In Positive Slovenia we want proper and proper referendum campaigns. In Positive Slovenia we will actively cooperate and try to tell people to choose their children and their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor for her, Dr. Andrej Črnak Mglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The existing family law dates back to 1976. I believe that we all agree together that after 36 years it is time to make a move in this area as well. The current legislation that will follow, I will say, social progress, the progress that Slovenia has made in the 1960s. Slovenia has become a modern, democratic country in the European space. Today it is a plural society that advocates gender equality, personal freedom and equal opportunities for all. That is why it is not right, dear colleagues and colleagues, to break spears, ideological spears. The children will also be here after the referendum. And for the rest of our lives, they lead us two ways. One is open and relaxed, and the other is the one that is turned and closed. And this last journey leaves people with it and causes injustice. I hope that at the referendum we will decide on the first, the one that leads us to the bright future and which gives everyone the opportunity and the equal position, and in particular the protection of all children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The panellists are no longer present for the debate, so I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the family code. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On behalf of the list of candidates and candidates for the Ministry and the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of the Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He submitted a list of candidates and candidates for the Minister and Ministers on 4 February 2012, and submitted an even smaller supplement to the list with certain data on 7 February 2012. The President of the National Assembly therefore proposes to appoint the following Ministers and Minister: Mr Franz Bogovič, Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of Defence, Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, Minister of State without department of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia, Dr. Senk Plicanič, Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr. Janez Šušteršič, Minister of Finance, Dr. Žig Turk, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Mag. Mr Andrej Visiak as Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Mag. Radovan Žerjava as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the proposal for appointments. Please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The coalition has drafted the Government's proposal for the next mandate, which you have received for approval. The home or competent working bodies of this Parliament have listened to the presentation of the candidate and all the candidates, and after the vote they have all received a positive opinion or conclusion that these presentations were appropriate. In front of the team you're deciding today, there's a big and difficult challenge. It is a mandate that cannot be predicted at the beginning of which is nothing spectacular, just hard work. Therefore, at the beginning of this additional presentation, I take this opportunity to congratulate everyone who has decided to run for office as ministers or ministers in this government and who are presented today for your confirmation, on their courage to accept this challenge. This job is not gonna be easy. Allow me also, in view of the promise made at the time of my presentation when you decided on the Prime Minister to explain today the objectives and measures that this government, proposed by the five parties' coalition, wants to implement the programme that we have set ourselves. Given that time is limited, and since the program is very detailed, you will also get a presentation in writing on the bench, I will not read everything. Let this be a tool for a later discussion. Let me also point out that the more detailed development of the measures to which this government will be bound, as well as the objectives, is presented on the websites of all coalition parties in the coalition treaties, which are extensive. The objectives and measures shall be presented in such a way that they may also be verifiable from the first day of their term of office. Nevertheless, while you will receive all of this in writing, allow me to draw some of the key points of this summary of the programme, which is now based on the three key objectives that are ahead of the government in the next mandate. It is the consolidation of public finances, the promotion of economic growth and the creation of new jobs. When it comes to consolidating Slovenian public finances, it must be said that this is not a reform. This is not about any structural changes in the sense that we are now doing something that will fundamentally change the structure of the functioning of the Slovenian state. That'll be next. With the consolidation of public finances, I simply mean the adjustment that this country has to make in order to maintain the functionality of vital systems and subsystems that ensure as much normal life in Slovenia as possible, and that under conditions where even the international environment does not promise any great growth and additional incentives and incentives, we will also be able to ensure, as far as possible, the normal functioning of a legal, just and social state. For this year and next year, it is absolutely clear, given the prospects, that we will be able to spend as much in the grave as we can create and collect in the budget minus what we will have to repay from this for the debts we have accumulated at an accelerated pace in recent years and also some inherited from earlier. Only interest on these loans will be paid in the budget for this year and next year several times more than three years ago. This is hundreds of millions of euros, which means that there will be so much less funding for other needs. Once again, when it comes to consolidating public finances, specifically, it is not about saving, but it is simply about meeting reality, when we need to know that what we don't have, and also what we can't borrow anymore, or whether it was too expensive and irrational, we don't have to use. Speaking of averages, I can say in the grave that for this year's budget rebalancing, which will be the first formal meeting with reality, in view of last year's realization, we have to cut spending by 10%, by not being able to do this linearly, because there are no reserves and there will be cuts where they are. If this number or this percentage seems high to anyone, I suggest that in international literature, what some other countries, and especially the Baltic States, as well as most of the other new Member States with whom we joined in the EU in 2004, did when they faced the same dilemma. Many of these countries have suddenly reduced public spending by 20 or 30 % by one cut, two Baltic States, for example, have reduced budget spending by 30 % at the time of adoption of the budget, reduced the number of employees in the public sector by 30 % and all those still employed in the public sector by a further 30 %. Most of these countries did so in 2009 and therefore today have significant economic growth, including employment growth and, of course, growth in income in pre-crisis budgets. So, 10% rationalisation compared to what some other countries have done is not a drastic step, but it would be drastic if we were forced to do the same cuts, which could happen within one year if we continued to delay. I said that the possibility of our further borrowing was extremely limited. We need to pour ourselves some clean wine here, as far as we're concerned. Wrong information about this is constantly circulating in the public. There is talk about how our debt to 44% of the gross domestic product in last year. This may be partly true information for the end of the third quarter. Last year, we are very likely to have ended up closer to 50% than 49, far from 44. The difference between these 5 or 5.5 percentage points is €2 billion. Here the entire Slovenian public deals with 20 million for the University, and with the millions needed to organise the basketball championship, I know that this public is interested, it is a problem at this time, but a much larger, 10 times, 15 times the problem no one deals with and no one sees it. But this is what is a major challenge, not only for the government, but also for the National Assembly, which will have to take measures to get us out of this. Only through rationalisation, by cutting spending, especially investment, will we not come out of the crisis. Equally or more importantly, it is necessary to create a specific space of manoeuvre for this to be done by implementing measures to boost the economy in order to create more easily. For if we do only the first one, it is true that if we rationalize and reduce resources and raise taxes, then this money will run out once and we will never get out of the crisis, we will only go down the spiral, we can also follow the logic of some levelling tables until we are in a situation that we can follow today in some other European countries. So at the same time, it is equally important to do everything that allows us to trigger new economic growth. This is mainly the case with three groups of measures, which are more detailed in the written presentation and also in the coalition contract. What needs to be done first and most easily, because it is mainly administrative measures for what can be done by adopting certain legal novelties and solutions here, is creating a more favourable environment for the economy. In the first place, payment non-discipline must be eliminated. Economic operators who do something and sell it must receive it paid, especially if the contracting authority of these services or products is the State budget. Here we will reduce both payment hands and ensure immediate payment. Then it is a matter of removing administrative burdens by introducing reporting in one place and removing bureaucratic barriers to the placement of facilities in the space. These obstacles are a number of reasons for the large investment delays, which then, for years or even more, postpones new production programmes as well as the possibility of new jobs. One of the key problems, especially for small and medium-sized operators, is the long-term resolution of judicial disputes. If a small company does not get paid today and initiate a lawsuit, they pay a high court fee for the first time, and then on average they wait four years for a verdict. During this time, he must forgive the workers and may also fail. The European norm is here about 1 year and this goal will be tried to hunt. It is also of paramount importance to link scientific research activities in the public sector with the economy. Here are the untapped opportunities to be aware of. It is very crucial for economic growth to reduce, where possible and rational and meaningful, the burdens of the economy. In particular, it is a reduction in labour costs, which is one of the biggest problems in the Slovenian economy. Then we anticipate investment reliefs, a gradual reduction in corporate income tax with 1 per cent per year in terms of what economic developments will be, which is not so important for the domestic economy, but is very important as an incentive for foreign investments that Slovenia urgently needs. In third place, equally urgent, is the removal of the credit crunch. In my previous presentation, you could see a graph showing how the net cash flow between banks and the economy has been in recent years, how from more than 4 billion of this current in the economy in 2008 the situation has changed to negative, so that the economy in last year and even before last year has paid more to banks than it has received fresh capital for development. In such a financial flow, it is not possible to count on normal economic development, so it is essential to rehabilitate the banking system and, on this basis, to make it easier to access the sources of finance in the economy, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises most affected here. All these measures will allow for the gradual creation of new jobs. New jobs are the only way out of the crisis and ultimately the only solution for Slovenian public finances. Because every new employee in the economy in Slovenia is a creator of new values and a generator of growth, he contributes to the pension and health allowance every month from his salary, contributes to income, cares about his own existence, as the consumer pays the consumer tax or value added tax, burdens social transfers because there is no beneficiary of unemployment and other social assistance and here reduces expenditure, take care of himself, for his family. And whatever you count, it remains at the table at the end of the table the fact that Slovenian public finances are literally dependent on citizens paying taxes, contributions and filling all four cash registers. Slovenia does not have resources, does not have regular annual financial resources from oil, gas and so on, we pay these energy products dearly and import them, there is nothing else that could replace this key source, namely citizens and citizens. So that this proverb, that man is our greatest wealth, of course also applies to Slovenian public finances. And there will be more, on average, rich citizens in Slovenia, and greater public well-being. Strengthening the middle class is therefore the key to long-term fiscal consolidation and also to a real increase in prosperity in Slovenia. This should also be borne in mind when certain measures are critically assessed in the coalition contract which are going in this direction. At the outset, I mentioned that, in addition to the challenge of getting out of the crisis, which is a key problem for this country in the coming years, it will also be a challenging challenge to ensure as much of the normal functioning of social sub-systems under difficult financing conditions or in tight economic circumstances and in this regard also a fair burden sharing. Many times the question arises in public whether Slovenia can take such a step. Of course Slovenia can take this step! If some other countries, on average less developed than Slovenia with which we went together to the European Union in 2004, were able to take even more drastic steps to recover and to develop normally today, Slovenia must also be able to take such a step. Finally, she worked harder in her recent history. We are still the same nation and the same community, and it is up to us to determine whether we will be able to do so. Of course, it is also very legitimate to ask the question whether Slovenian society is ready for this sobriety today as a whole. There are some signs that show that there is, but there are also signs that show that we can seriously doubt this. This doubt could initially be expressed even in the Slovenian political class if we first sweep the threshold. The neighbouring country of Croatia had elections at the time, like us, on December 4th. The neighbouring country has a month and a half of the operational government, and we are now discussing the same thing for the third time in the National Assembly. We have a procedure when we call the government in two stages. As you have seen, it can also lead to completely unexpected complications and waste time. This time is measured in millions of euros. This month and a half, which could be obtained here, if we express it or try to speculate on it by transforming it into euros, we could get about 150 million euros, which is five or six universities or some other more necessary costs that we should finance. Every day when no action is taken, every day when problems with our long-term bonds are in the financial markets, every day when the value of Slovenian state assets falls due to uncertainty, the damage can be calculated in millions of euros each day. And we act like we don't care. Since 2001, a proposal has been made to simplify this process, but the Slovenian political class has not yet been able to agree to do so; not even now that it is clear that the crisis is huge. In recent days, we have also received a warning from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which last year supervised our early elections. For several decades, for 20 years, we have lived in the belief that we are fine with the elections, that we have a completely non-problem procedure. There have been disputes and differing opinions about the electoral system itself, but now we have a report from a neutral international observer who says that many things are wrong with the conduct of our elections. That we have constituencies where some of us are elected among 30,000 voters and others among 7,000; that we also have problems elsewhere when it comes to the equality of electoral law; that there is no control over the media campaign, the financing of the campaign and so on. These things will have to be rectified, or another international mission that will observe our elections will make some different recommendations. We don't even have procedures to allow international observers to seriously monitor our elections. Nowhere in our regulations and legislation are we supposed to do this because we believed that we were far from the best. Some of the reactions that have occurred to the public in recent weeks to the government, which is not yet, in fact, when the government, which is not yet, is to blame for not knowing what, are somehow going in the direction of this doubt that a large part of the Slovenian public is not ready for the sobering up that is coming. We have even heard very clear demands when some have declared that they are living on a foreign account for their right. Living on a foreign account can't be justice. It is necessary to help solidarity those who cannot help themselves, but those who can do so cannot declare life on a foreign account as their right. That's what we heard. Very clearly stated requirements. It must also be agreed that some things simply no longer belong to a civilized country, in the 21st century, especially if this country deals with serious problems. There is no point in accusing our allies of interfering with our internal affairs, as we were in the previous or previous century, of working on an international environment that is far more friendly to Slovenia than ever before before to join the European Union, hostile, and there is no point in closing our doors where we have friends. And in particular, it makes no sense, and the government will resist all democratic means to beat the dignity of citizens and citizens, those from whom we expect to tighten the belt and understand this situation. In this country, in the previous century, 10,000 and more people suffered both under fascism and under Nazism or under national socialism and under communism. All these people have the right to their personal dignity, and finally one of the most recent decisions of the Constitutional Court. And no one has the right to take that dignity. Some things that poison the atmosphere are distracting attention from what is our real challenge, both for the country and for the community and for the people, if you will. And these things need to be put in the background. We are in the 21st century, we are part of the European Union and NATO, we are not alone, and this international environment has its own problems. Slovenia is obliged to participate constructively and productively in these broader problems. However, we also have a lot of real and potential assistance from this environment and we need to be aware of it and this needs to be taken very seriously. In doing so, I would like to say that the answer to the question is whether Slovenia will be able to take the necessary steps in the next 2 years to get out of the crisis, which depends mainly on us. The international comparison shows that Slovenians have been able to achieve as good or better results in a comparable environment as other European nations. At a time when the entire Slovenian national territory was part of Austro-Hungarian society, Slovenia was more developed than northern Italy. Then we went into different relationships and we went down. The average earnings in Slovenia in 1938 amounted to almost 80% of Austria's average salary at the time. At the time of independence in 1990, the average wage in Slovenia was a good quarter of Austria’s average salary. Then we arrived in 20 years of independent life at almost two thirds, and Slovenia reached 91% of the European average at the end of 2008 after purchasing power per capita. In 20 years, we have made up substantially for this backlog of average, as we said then, of a developed Europe. Until 2008, this progress was positive. From 2008 to today, although the whole EU has been in the same situation, it is said in the economic crisis that Slovenia has begun to lagging behind and is now 5 percentage points lower. It's just a relative comparison that says we didn't do what we could. We can't blame anyone else. And even for the next few years, we won't be able to blame anyone but ourselves. We still have many advantages. A relative comparison with the environment, we have once shown that this 20-year-old Slovenian development across the EU, in the euro area, has provided Slovenia with significantly better conditions than those of those countries that have not yet. Today, 2 million people in Slovenia still create a gross domestic product equal to or even greater than Croatia's gross domestic product, where more than once more people live, or the gross domestic product of Serbia, where there are 4 times as many inhabitants. In these 20 years, we have been able to take advantage of many of the advantages we have had, and there is no reason to take advantage of these potentials that we still have in the future. However, it is a condition that all those who want to be created can be allowed the possibility that those who are waiting for work today have completed their studies, in which the community has also invested a lot, to allow at least the traineeship as soon as possible, that the great potentials that we have in Slovenian science, innovative thinking etc., be used as much at home as possible, not that these people are going abroad with the belly for bread and then defend them, even as lecturers, because some monopolies are afraid of competition. It is also important to agree that foreign investment is not seen as a threat to our national interests. Yesterday, we spoke with the future Minister of Economy to representatives of the Swedish company leaving Slovenia because it was driven away by a monopoly that is fueled, of course, by public finances and does not want competition here. I don't know why Swedish or Norwegian capital would be problematic in this case. In fact, our environment is hostile to these investments. Here we have to be very honest with Slovenian citizens and citizens, if there is no such investment, there will be a much lower economic growth or a much larger recession. If we are in recession, there will be relatively much higher taxes, so much lower standards, so much more unemployment, etc. It is necessary to eliminate this illusion once again how Slovenia, which is part of the common European market, which has its own market not only relatively but extremely small, survives as a closed economic community under some national interests that essentially defends the monopolies of people and groups that, of course, have great benefits, and we pay all taxpayers. The government will do everything to change the administrative environment and give a different signal, but this in itself will not help if our thinking does not change. Perhaps this crisis is, in this sense, a real opportunity for this to happen. I'm calling on everyone to help make this happen as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for the 10th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's the smallest we've ever had. By doing so, we want to show that this will be part of the executive power that will start rationalisation with itself. Once again, I stress that this rationalisation means the greatest cuts or attempt to save money in that part of the functioning of a non-activity country and that this is still a thousand times better for all than to cut back on the force of the situation, as is the case today in Greece, where international institutions dictate the number of public sector employees, the amount of minimum wage, the maximum possible pension and so on. In short, it is still better that we do this in a soft way and that vital activities will not be affected. The government, which you will decide today, has committed itself in its coalition agreement to immediately offer the social partners a proposal for a new social agreement in which they will try to define these key objectives to be achieved in the coming years. And what is equally important is a fair distribution of burdens in society, so that this is possible. This government will also offer both opposition parties the opportunity to participate in the partnership for development, which means that the Government will be ready to coordinate the proposals for systemic solutions with the opposition in the National Assembly even before the government procedure begins and before everything begins, which, of course, allows each Member and Member State to cooperate with the amendments and so on, but after some positions have already been taken when it has the coalition, I will say, my decision has been made and when amendments are usually made to make a minor change. We have a positive experience from the 2004-2008 mandate, and we have adopted 53 key laws, including tough reform laws, in cooperation with most of the opposition, even though this has then been tried to forget. Some efforts must be made, but the government will offer this hand, we will also make a written proposal, you will get it in a short time and we will count on a positive response. Pre-emptive rejection of such a possibility of cooperation, I don't think it will bring anything, at least you have to try to step aside from something, and it's always possible to find many reasons and excuses later, if anyone wants them. However, I think we all have to try, because time is simply not much, the intervention law applies until the end of the half-year, it is said by the end of June. At this time, both this basic political agreement on these steps that we are presenting today, as well as a proposal for a new social agreement or at least its framework, must be concluded, a outline where, of course, the Government wants us to take these key steps in agreement. The only condition for productive social and political dialogue is that we are all aware of the situation in which we are, and that no one will force the Government to bring more money from somewhere, than we are able to gather it in difficult circumstances of management, including debt and, of course, the fact that it is imperative for the economy to create, at least temporarily, a greater room for manoeuvre to begin to grow and create new jobs. If you support today's team proposed on behalf of the five-party coalition, then it will be a team working for the exit of Slovenia from the crisis, which will be ready for constructive cooperation both with the opposition and with the social partners, and it will be a team that will guarantee that Slovenia will take steps that are essential in the coming years. I think not only this national assembly, but all of Slovenia deserves this opportunity. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u33	I thank the President of the Government for this supplementary presentation. In accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of these working bodies. It follows from the reports of the competent working bodies that the presentations were appropriate. You have also received reports from competent working bodies. The presidents of the working bodies will now present these reports to the assembly. First it's mag. Dejan Židan, who will present the report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague, Honourable President of the Government! Mr Franz Bogovic, candidate for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, presented himself to the members and members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment at the 2nd emergency meeting, which took place. 2. 2012 and answered their questions. The proposed candidate for minister presented his presentation in three sets. First, he gave some information on his professional and professional work so far, and then gave reasonable reasons for maintaining the area of agriculture and the environment and presented in more detail the priorities in the respective areas of both departments. On the basis of the reasons for the integration of agricultural and environmental areas into the common areas, the applicant stressed that the basic reason for the merger of both areas and the merger of powers and responsibilities for the management of natural resources within the Single Ministry was. In this way, the candidate believes that action will be significantly more effective and coordinated. As he stressed, it must no longer happen that the various national authorities within the Ministry or between ministries act inconsistently. In addition, the common area of natural resources and the management of waste and missions must have a single objective, that is to protect the environment and people, while at the same time ensuring the economic and efficient use of natural resources. According to the candidate, the joint ministry will also be an opportunity for new jobs in the field of food production and processing and in the environment. In doing so, the candidate stressed in particular that close cooperation with non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment, including agriculture, as well as cooperation with neighbouring organisations, will be important in meeting these challenges. This is why the candidate has publicly invited experts in both ministries, as well as environmental organisations that are vigilant about the environment, to cooperate and find common solutions for today. In presenting the agricultural priorities, he stressed that a lot of good has been done in recent years for Slovenian agriculture. One of the key things that has changed the public's attitude towards agriculture in some way is that awareness of the importance of locally processed food and food security has been strengthened. It further presented in detail the primary tasks of multi-purpose agriculture, which it will address in its mandate, namely the production of safe and quality food, the conservation of natural resources for future generations, the protection of agricultural land against permanent change of destination, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the preservation of biodiversity and typical cultural landscapes, the economic management of water resources, the social dimension and the preservation of villages, villages and villages and individual farms. Among the particularly problematic issues, the candidate highlighted the market organisation of Slovenian agriculture. Better organisation of this area will also require appropriate changes in the area of the cooperative system, and measures will also need to be taken to encourage those who join the agri-food chain. Following the presentation of the agricultural area, he gave a detailed entry of his vision, including with regard to the integration and regulation of relations within the agri-food chain, the Code of Good Practice, safe food, roles and transfer of knowledge into forestry practice, as one of the largest remaining unused potentials in Slovenia, beekeeping issues and so on. In his presentation to the environmental department, he stressed that he would pay particular attention to those issues that so far have been resolved separately through the resources, although many tasks in both areas are overlapped. Among its immediate priorities in this area will be: to prevent actions and possible penalties by the European Union for non-implementation of environmental legislation, non-implementation of the Waste Disposal Directive and implementation of measures in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. Before the vote, some members of the committee, in explanation of their vote, stressed that they would support the proposed candidate, as it was a competent candidate who was very familiar with the issue of agriculture and the environment. He was actively involved with the latter at the time of his mayorship. In his presentation, he also demonstrated that he knows how to work not only at local level but also at national and European level, which is particularly important at a time when the final negotiations on cohesion and the common agricultural policy are taking place. In particular, in the opinion of many members of the committee, the candidate inspires confidence that he will be part of his ministerial function. The Committee adopted by 16 votes in favour, none against, that the presentation of Franco Bogovic as a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space will be presented by the President, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! Mr Černač presented himself as a candidate for Minister in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. In the introduction to the presentation, the proposed candidate for a minister said that the new government organisation, in addition to fewer ministries, also foresees a pooling of sectors. The new Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, in addition to the existing areas of work of the current Ministry of Transport, also includes the field of energy, information society and the regulation of space and construction. The operation of all other systems and subsystems, which depend on the further development of our country, depends on these areas. The key task ahead of us is the preparation and implementation of state infrastructure projects, taking into account budgetary constraints and the financial sustainability of the state budget. This will require domestic funding, given the well-known public financial situation, to be limited in a manner consistent with plans to reduce the public financial deficit and to halt the increase in public debt. Investments in public infrastructure are carried out during the whole period of Slovenia's independence in a very partial and fragmented manner between a number of national authorities and companies. For this reason, a uniform and comprehensive approach is necessary to achieve optimal synergies. The candidate presented the basic guidelines for individual work areas of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space arising from the existing state of the coalition contract and the tightening of the public financial framework. In the field of transport policy, the candidate first stressed that regulated and modern transport infrastructure is a very important part of the state infrastructure, which is also a condition for the balanced and polycentric development of our country. The Single Ticket project, sustainable mobility, the increase in the share of passengers in rail and bus transport and the reduction in the share of passenger road transport are not satisfactory. Over the past 20 years, the state has made it an important priority to build up a highway network and a network of fast roads on the trans-European road network. However, the remaining transport infrastructure has been severely neglected. This hampers the country's polycentric development and poor environmental development potential, which do not have adequate transport links. As part of the development of road infrastructure, the basic highway programme is practically completed, but not the national road network programme, with a focus on ensuring the greatest possible traffic safety. Energy, mining and efficient use of energy. The candidate identified some of the main objectives in these areas: a transparent, competitive and open market with electricity and natural gas, stimulating increased renewable energy use, providing investment potentials for the exploitation of energy resources for a sustainable way, exploiting Slovenia's geographical heritage in the flow of energy and energy through our country, taking into account adequate environmental protection and space, exploiting domestic knowledge and experience, and prioritising and supporting energy projects that have the greatest possible share of domestic knowledge and experience. He went on to say that there is a new national energy programme in preparation that will provide further developmental energy orientations and provide answers to future investment issues. At the conclusion of the presentation of this work area, the candidate said that public infrastructure remained 100% of state ownership. The area of electronic communications. According to the candidate, this is an area that is rapidly developing, both due to technological changes and due to strong competition. Importantly – the candidate estimated that projects to build broadband networks that are being implemented have partially met their objectives. The main objective is access to a broadband network that should be provided to all under accessible conditions. Area of space and construction. The presentation of the last working area of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space began with the conclusion that space for the country is of great strategic importance because it is one of the conditions for general development. The candidate estimates that the current policy of regulating the area in Slovenia is not appropriate. Despite the distortion of the area, there are on the one hand developmental constraints, even blockades in the area, when too long and too complicated to place infrastructure and other facilities in the area is plagued by the development potential of the country. In the debate, the members and members of the committee asked the proposed candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, a number of questions to which the candidate had responded appropriately. Upon completion of the presentation and the replies, the Committee adopted with 13 votes in favour that Zvonka Černač's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u38	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, distinguished President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy held a discussion yesterday, 9 February 2012, with the candidate for Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. In the opening presentation, the candidate presented his views on the international situation of Slovenia and its foreign policy priorities. He stressed that he would advocate a more active role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in shaping its own views and decisions within the European Union, NATO and other international organisations of which Slovenia is a member, taking into account national interest, European or Allied foreign policy. In this light, the establishment of a strategic analysis centre should be restored to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With regard to EU matters, he drew attention to the advantage of powers from the Government of Development and European Affairs, which would facilitate the coordination of work. Slovenia will strengthen its position in the Organization of United Nations as a country promoting human rights. Slovenia will continue to be a responsible member of NATO, with an important decision on the continued presence in Afghanistan. In particular, he highlighted good relations with neighbouring countries and the realization of the interests of the Slovenian economy in the international environment. With regard to relations with Croatia, he highlighted the arbitration agreement as an important milestone, and with regard to the date of ratification of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the EU by Slovenia, he considered this to be a clear political issue and it is not yet possible to predict a more accurate date. With regard to Austria, important progress has been made by concluding an agreement on bilingual local inscriptions, an important step towards fulfilling the obligations regarding the protection of the Slovenian minority in Austria and Styria. In particular, it will advocate consistent compliance with the provisions of the Austrian State Treaty. It will also support the continuation of good relations with Italy and the progress of relations with Hungary, where insufficient funding for the Slovenian national community is a key open issue. With regard to the wider region, he stressed that Slovenian foreign policy must continue its active cooperation in the Western Balkans, as there is a need to strengthen political and economic cooperation and support the countries of these regions on their way to the European Union and NATO. He also committed to implementing strategic partnerships, notably with France and Germany. It intends to pay particular attention to relations with the BRICS countries, which should be modified into BRICS plus, meaning the inclusion of some other strategically important countries such as South Korea, Argentina, Turkey, as economic power is moving east and south. In particular, he presented his view of economic diplomacy, devoting himself to remaining this area within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it is pointless to change something that works well. He also highlighted the notion of safeguarding the credibility of Slovenia in the international space, which means that it will pay particular attention to respect for informal promises and commitments in obtaining support for the realization of Slovenia's interests. He stressed the importance of meeting Slovenia's financial obligations in international organisations. Regarding the rationalisation of the network of diplomatic and consular representations, he explained that a detailed analysis of needs would have to be prepared in view of the changing situation in the global world, and the Committee on Foreign Policy would also decide on that. The candidate is committed to professional, transparent and professional diplomacy, not political recruitment within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In particular, it focused on the active cooperation of the Committee on Foreign Policy as the central body for the debate on foreign policy, which will seek to find the best solutions for Slovenia. The Committee's deliberations included: possible transfer of economic diplomacy under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, criteria for rationalising the network of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia in the Member States of the European Union and the opening of new European Union Representations, the role of development and humanitarian assistance, efforts to reduce Slovenia's financial contributions to international organisations in which it is a member. Following the answers to the questions raised, the Minister's candidate specifically thanked the members of the Support Committee in their efforts to keep economic diplomacy under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After the presentation had been concluded, the 11-vote committee adopted an opinion against 3 that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by the President of the Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u40	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Mr Tomaž Gantar, candidate for Minister of Health, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 9. 2. Presented to the Health Committee and answered the questions of its members. The proposed candidate for minister presented himself first in the opening presentation. Following the presentation, the candidate for ministries presented his guidelines for the further development of the health system in Slovenia. He stressed that the basic purpose of the health system is to ensure that as much money as possible and in the best possible way, it fulfils the needs of citizens and provides health services in a high-quality manner. Each country organises its health care system according to certain parameters, depending on the economic and economic situation, demographic structure and the development of technology accessibility, in particular according to human resources needs and specific disease. In Slovenia, development indicators show that the population will not change significantly. The emphasis, which shows that in Slovenia there is a good health system, is the mortality of babies, which is among the lowest in Europe, but a more important emphasis is that the population of Slovenia is old, which means a higher cost in the healthcare system, as we know that the number of chronic diseases is increasing with age. In addition, the Minister's candidate presented the main objectives of the healthcare system, namely fairness, equality and accessibility to health services, the principle of solidarity and the coverage of public funds costs with the so-called basket of rights. Special attention has been paid to the presentation of the quality area in health care, quality indicators, accreditation and certification issues. Furthermore, the area of concessions and the way concessions are awarded to preventive reviews and actions and the promotion of health, life, healthy life and the elimination of harmful habits and practices. He presented in more detail individual levels of the health system, namely primary, secondary and tertiary levels, benefits and weaknesses at individual levels and possible improvements, which will be necessary in view of the tight financial and economic conditions. An important role is also played by the Network of On-call Services. He also mentioned the productivity of doctors, the system of financing and stimulating the work of doctors and the movement needed in the direction of competitiveness. As Minister, he will advocate the separation of the public and private health system. Additional health insurance will also have to be changed for the European Union and the role and importance of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance will be further defined. In view of the financial situation, the institution will have to relieve unnecessary costs, resulting in a new content of the rights baskets. Furthermore, the majority of the members of the Committee commended the presentation and stressed that the candidate for Minister of Topics and Issues is well-known because it also stems from his work so far. The specific questions raised by the members of the committee concerned health projects, the functioning of the pharmacy area, the field of the way in which profits are made, problems in the area of the establishment of narcotics and velodrogeria, bank guarantees, the functioning of the Institute of Health Care, the area of the genetically modified organisms, the protection of patients' rights and the exercise of a second opinion as rights, and the coverage of the costs of the exercise of this right, measures in order to keep young doctors and stimulate them, the role and importance of the Medical Chamber – mandatory or voluntary membership, the system of supervision over all areas of health care, the enforcement and further development of nursing hospitals, the salaries of employees, additional insurance for long-term care and means of providing resources, greater competitiveness, the provision of health care where there is no insurance, investment in health care and so on. The specific issue was raised in relation to the budget rebalancing, which was the financial resources of the Ministry of Health, and how the minister's candidate would choose priorities in this regard, where he would reduce the funds and when, it was envisaged that a public health network would be created; whether he would continue to reform the health insurance system and what his opinion was on article 60 of the Health and Health Insurance Act; whether he would preserve the rights of children and adolescents belonging to them under article 80; how he would resolve the problem of the tertiary level and the reference ambulances and emergency centres. The proposed candidate provided answers to all the questions raised and informed the members and members of the Commission in more detail and more specifically of his/her views. At the end of the presentation, the Minister's candidate stressed that he would be committed to the Ministry of Health Policy and Health in Slovenia. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 14 votes in favour: "that Mr Tomaž Gantar's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Health was appropriate". Of course we expect the results of the work.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Internal Policy will be presented by Ms Maša Kociper, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Mr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior, opened his initial presentation to the Committee on Home Affairs by presenting his previous career and further assessed the current situation at the Ministry of the Interior and presented his vision of managing this ministry in specific fields of work. He highlighted in particular the area of the State Prosecutor's Office and the police, and in accordance with the Coalition Treaty he also mentioned the transition of the area of nationality and secret information under the auspices of this Ministry. According to the applicant, the Public Prosecutor's Office is the State's independent law enforcement service, whose basic provisions are regulated by the Constitution and the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The transfer of labour from the work area of the Ministry of Justice relating to the organisation and status of the State Prosecutor's Office and the supervision of its operations is not problematic in his view, since the Constitution of the State Prosecutor places it under the Chapter of the State Regulations and does not define it as part of the judiciary, with its fundamental role and position guaranteed both by the Constitution and by law. He ensured that the State Prosecutor's Office and the police were subordinated only to the law and regulated in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The latter has been valid since last year and, according to the candidate, in comparison to the previous law, increases the Minister's powers at the expense of weakening the position of Attorney-General and does not guarantee the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office. In cooperation with the Attorney General, I would therefore like to prepare amendments to the law to strengthen his role and responsibility, while the independence of the State Prosecutor must remain intact. In the opinion of the future minister, the police are an organ in the composition and thus have been separated from the policy since 1998 when the Police Act entered into force, in which the candidate also actively participated. He said that Slovenia, according to the number of police officers, belongs to the top of the European countries, which is attributed in particular to the protection of the southern Schengen border. He presented the situation on individual segments of police work and stressed that its priority in this area remains the same, namely the detection of economic crime and corruption. It will also address the issue of renting a National Investigation Office building, which is also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, and the issues of this office, equipment and police training. At the conclusion of the opening presentation, the candidate said he was aware of the importance and task of the Committee on the Interior and would therefore always be open to the initiatives and questions of its members. The discussion of the members and members referred, in particular, to measures aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the prosecution of economic and organised crime, to the controversy or appropriateness and substantive relevance of the classification of the State Prosecutor's Office within the Ministry or the executive branch of the Government, to the impact of the placement of the State Prosecutor's Office under the auspices of the Ministry and to this effect on the effectiveness of the action and the sensefulness of the envisaged abolition of the judicial investigation. In addition to these main areas, the candidate's questions and answers were grouped in particular around: the criminal policy of traffic offences, often referred to as the way in which the state budget is charged; the high expenditure on travel costs for police officers to come to work from one country of Slovenia to another; the number of planned State secretaries in that Ministry; the areas of protecting and preventing their abuses in terms of protecting human rights; the execution of a project of a single identity card and the consequences for more than 100,000 citizens, which will then expire on the validity of this document; the manner of operation of the envisaged joint duty centres with regard to the merger of several services within the police; the feasibility of austerity measures at the Ministry without prejudice to the level of salaries or the reduction of the number of employees; the envisaged migration of the National Investigation Office into the Litostroska building, for which it will have to pay the same rent; the possible implementation of any other State-level work, within the scope of the National Police, through the relevant law project; the provision of the necessary for the judicial review of the law. After the presentation and questions had been concluded, the Committee, with 9 votes and 6 votes against, adopted the opinion that the presentation of Mr Vinko Gorenak as a candidate for Minister was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The report of the Defence Committee will be presented by the President, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Welcome to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Aleš Hojs, proposed as Minister of Defence, presented himself to the members and members of the Defence Committee on 9 February 2012 and answered their questions. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the committee adopted the following opinion by 8 votes in favour and none against: "The presentation of Aleš Hojs as the candidate for the Minister of Defence was appropriate." Among the programme highlights, he pointed out that the Ministry of Defence is responsible for two subsystems, the defence system, which is under exclusive national competence, and the system of protection against natural and other disasters, which is part of the state and the main part of the local jurisdiction. Following Slovenia's accession to Euro-Atlantic connections, as the candidate said, the defence strategy and national security also changed significantly. Despite the fact that we have a relatively good situation in the area of such legislative proposals adopted, it should be stressed that both normative and operational work will require upgrades or improvements to the system. Despite some important documents in the area of defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia that have already been adopted, it will be necessary to review and amend and adopt certain regulations, such as the defence strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the new medium-term programme 2004 to 2018, the strategic review of the Defence Department and, as a consequence, to amend the Defence Act. In his opinion, the long-term commitment of the Republic of Slovenia is membership in NATO, which enables and offers us top military cooperation, the possibility of education, the state-of-the-art military protection and, above all, does not preclude the further development of its own defence system. In this light, it is also necessary to reconsider the decision on the size of its own defence forces, as the number of professional soldiers and the statutory age limitation on service in the Slovenian Army in the coming years may lead to a shortage of military personnel. The candidate is aware that the defence area is one that will be received both by ministers and also by Members and by the public of savings pressures. At the same time, he warned that it seemed unacceptable to him to save at the expense of skills, equipment, development and, above all, the safety of our soldiers and soldiers. It is unacceptable, given the personal income of Slovenian soldiers, including saving on their salaries. There is also a major problem; the problem is that Slovenia has committed itself to the international treaties by 2 per cent of the gross domestic product it would use for the military, which is not actually dedicated to it. The fact is that this percentage gradually increased from 2005 to 2008, but never reached 2%. With the new rebalancing, this percentage decreased to 1.2 percent and 1.3 percent of the gross domestic product. The problem with the military itself is also, according to the candidate, that almost 62% of the defence budget is already being allocated to pay. The Nat standards or recommendations are that this amount would be there somewhere between 50 and 55% of the defence budget. Perhaps the candidate can see savings in the public procurement system, where something can be saved with more open tendering conditions. The next reserve, which the candidate sees, is the slow halting or securing of a larger number of reserve members, and certain savings or additional revenues are also seen by the candidate in the centres, such as the Multinational Centre of Excellence for Mountain Fighting in Bohinjska Bela. The Minister's candidate is considering amending legislation that would at least exclude at a symbolic level soldiers from the system of public servants. He also discussed how protection and rescue should be highlighted, how we have 45,000 volunteers, mostly firefighters, in this system, and how their status should be ensured. From 10 to 13 members of the Committee discussed and explained their vote as a candidate for minister. The proposed candidate for minister answered the questions raised and informed the members of his views, views and opinions, as well as more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas of the Ministry of Defence's operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The Commission's report on relations for Slovenians in place and around the world will be presented by President Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, nice greeting! According to Rule 112 of the Constitution, Article 230 of Rules of Procedure 7. 2 2012 presented to the members of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in the Interior and the World as a candidate for Minister without a portfolio in the field of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. After a short personal presentation, Ludmila Novak focused on her current experience with knowing the subject of Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. She stressed the importance of bringing local communities together with members of the Slovenian national community, both in neighbouring countries and around the world, which she herself as mayor of Moravče municipality encouraged and actively participated in the establishment of these visions. As a Member of the European Parliament, she took note of the situation of the Slovenian National Community in both the Republic of Italy, the Austrian Republic and, in particular, during the Presidency of the Republic of Austria, the Council of the European Union referred to Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. She said it was important that Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia be allowed conditions for the preservation of Slovenian culture, language, to also enable contact with the homeland of the native nation in all areas and to promote contacts mainly with scientific, cultural, economic and education. She also stressed that she would continue with those projects that have proved to be good in the past in the context of the operation of the Slovenian Government for returns with Slovenians in place and around the world. Regarding the design and implementation of strategies for economic cooperation and youth work, she said that it was necessary to check the necessary and, therefore, to examine and verify the relevant results in this area. At the end of the presentation, the candidate said that the participation of scientists of Slovenian origin working abroad should be further encouraged and allowed to return to the Republic of Slovenia by eliminating the current bureaucratic obstacles. Members and members of the Commission asked a number of questions for the Minister without a director. Among other things, the position on the notification of an agreement on the re-establishment of a self-sustaining democratic Austria, i.e. the notification of the Austrian State Treaty; whether it is more appropriate to have a Culture Minister than a Minister responsible for relations with Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, given that the promotion of different cultures is more promoted within the framework of the European Union and that more resources are allocated to it; on concrete solutions that would enable individuals of the Slovenian people to have easier economic and scientific cooperation with partners in the Republic of Slovenia; on initiatives to pool umbrella organisations towards the single representation of the Slovenian community both abroad and at home; on the better functioning of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for foreign and worldwide contributions; on the candidate's position to identify individuals for membership of the two nations. Then the possibilities for cooperation strategies in the various areas adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be transformed into the necessary resolutions of the National Assembly; the initiative after a constitutional change to elect two representatives from the Slovenians in place and Slovenia around the world as a Member of the National Assembly; and, of course, good cooperation and information on the situation and development of the Slovenian community outside the borders. Of course, the candidate answered the questions raised. Thus, the proposed candidate identified herself in her replies with regard to easier cooperation with interested investors, then identified herself in terms of merger and stressed that the merger must be carried out by the organisations themselves. Of course, it also identified itself until constitutional changes and stressed that this is in fact the most important decision of Members and Members of the National Assembly. The members were pleased with the presentation of the candidate, so after her presentation they voted 10 votes in favour and no votes against. We wish them much success in the work of the Slovenian government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. The report of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will be presented by President Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! At the beginning of the opening presentation, the candidate for Minister Senko Plitčanič highlighted the importance of the rule of law as one of the key pillars of the country and stressed that it could only be achieved with the unconditional participation of all three branches of government. According to the candidate, we can talk about the rule of law when we have an excellent legal system and public administration acting as a service to citizens. In addition, the Minister's candidate presented the Ministry's responsibilities and stressed the key objectives and tasks of the Ministry in specific areas, namely justice, public administration and local self-government. In the field of justice, he highlighted in particular the following objectives: the full independence of the judiciary, and in particular the interference of policy with the work of the judiciary; the introduction of the trial mandate of judges, together with the introduction of compulsory education and testing of knowledge, which will be a condition for the elected in a permanent judicial mandate; faster judicial epilogues, in particular in rebuttal criminal matters; the resolution of as many disputes as possible, particularly economic ones, in alternative ways such as mediation and arbitration. With regard to the transfer of the work area of the organisation and the status of the State Prosecutor's Office and the supervision of the operations of the State Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior, the applicant stressed that he did not see the possibility of influencing the work of prosecutors in specific cases, irrespective of the extent to which the State Prosecutor's Office is included. Nevertheless, he considers that the argument of a large part of the legal profession that such a solution for a type of professional reason is not appropriate is convincing and will therefore propose that the coalition treaty should be amended accordingly, subject to the agreement of all coalition partners on this solution. In the field of public administration, the candidate for a minister will, in particular, advocate a more rational organisation of the state administration and in this regard for the establishment of administrative circuits; rationalisation of administrative procedures or removal of administrative barriers; upgrading of the eGovernment portal with new content and simplifying its application; establishing a more effective system for awarding successful and sanctioning failed employees in the public sector; and strengthening the personal responsibility of public managers to achieve the objectives of the governing body. In the field of local self-government, while spending less time than the other two areas, he stressed the need to simplify and de-debarcise all procedures at local level, to unify procedures and methodologies in all municipalities and to encourage municipalities to connect. At the end of the opening presentation, the Minister's candidate stressed that these objectives could only be achieved through the participation of all actors in Slovenia concerned and expressed his wish to cooperate with the members of the National Assembly. A number of questions were also raised by the members and members of the committees to the candidate minister. The Members were particularly interested in how the candidate will seek to restore or enhance the reputation and authority of the judiciary when the mistrust of the judiciary among the peoples is increasing. The Members were also interested in how he would approach the abolition of judicial backlogs and the resolution of the spatial problem of Slovenian prisons. They also highlighted the issue of notary tariffs, the issue of the status of the Law and Notary Chamber of Slovenia and the integration of the land book with the disaster. Organised and economic crime and corruption are increasing in Slovenia, and Members were therefore interested in how, as future ministers, he would approach this issue. The MEP also asked how the public administration would become more friendly, more quality and more responsible as to how wage policy and employment policy in the public sector would take place in the future. They also asked what they thought about the adoption of a law on the implementation of activities of general interest which would ensure the transparency of non-economic activities. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 16 votes in favour and no votes against: "The presentation of Dr. Senko Plicanič as candidate for the Minister of Justice and Public Administration was appropriate."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be presented by the Chairman of the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Dr. Janez Šuštersič transferred and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on 9 February. The candidate for Minister Janez Šuštersič presented the key points of future management of the Ministry of Finance based on the construction of three substantive priorities to the members and members of the committee in more detail in the introductory presentation. The first priority is to reduce public consumption, the second tax burden and simplify the tax system and the third is to restore the credibility of Slovenia as a potential partner for desired investors. Reducing public consumption is essential for a number of reasons, both in terms of gross social product and nominally. The first is that Slovenia can no longer be substantially indebted, as it would soon reach an unacceptable 55% to 60% debt in a gross social product when maintaining its current trends. We need to work, the candidate stressed that public debt will remain below 50% of the gross social product with a downward trend. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that the high deficits and public expenditure, as has been recorded in recent years in particular in the economic field, have not yielded the expected results and, above all, have failed to resolve the economic crisis. In addition, he stressed that possible tax hikes would only add to the already weakened economy. The candidate also cited the creation of the necessary space for tax relief not only in the economic field but also in the area of employment through the resulting urgent creation of jobs, which should signal for the European space that the Slovenian public finance policy is actually changing. However, it is also an obligation based on a coalition contract, which envisions a reduction in public spending by around €800 million this year, the candidate stressed, which will not be possible to achieve any further permanent debt while continuing on. The possibility of extending the intervention law has also been mentioned among the appropriate ways to achieve the above-mentioned objective, but it is certainly a target number that can be set when the immediate urgent balance of the state budget is drawn up. The Minister's candidate stressed that the result of savings in public spending could, in some respects, be a new start to the social partnership, where there would be some means to raise awareness of the savings of all public sector actors. He stressed that a convincing approach to the budget's rebalancing by building a modified practice of public money management is a possible argument to extend intervention law in agreements with the social partners, while opening up the possibility of possible adjustments in this area. With regard to the priority relating to tax changes, it is a matter of decommissioning, simplifying and harmonising the tax system with the systems in force in the field of labour law and social law. The Minister's candidate referred to the extension of the tax measures for investment reliefs, an increase in investment incentives for development, a reduction in corporate income tax rates. The candidate stressed that with the capital of foreign investors, we will achieve adequate business restructuring, which will have a positive impact on other companies in the direction of new development, new jobs and ultimately on greater economic growth. Following the presentation, the members and members of the committee asked the candidate minister questions, in particular the issue of the way in which the fiscal rule was recorded, the relationship between the planned significant reduction in public expenditure and the social state, the envisaged effects of tax burdens, the management of state assets, the coordination of the Ministry of Finance with other ministries, the organisation of the Ministry of Finance [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Financial transaction tax in the European Union. [[...]] Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee, with 15 votes in favour and no objection, took the view that the presentation of Dr Janez Šuštaršič as the candidate of the Minister of Finance was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much for the report. The report of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth will be presented by the president of mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u52	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members and Members, I am gathering a very nice greeting on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth! As a candidate for Minister, Dr. Giga Turk presented himself to the committee responsible on 7. 2. 2012 and in his introductory presentation on the field of culture, stressed that he would support the recognition of its specific social status, openness, support for Slovenian language and creativity and investment in cultural heritage and integration in the museum area. In his education he stressed that the company must be open, that more emphasis should be given to Slovenian history and values, and that in the field of science and higher education he committed himself to the establishment of the Slovenian University of Technology, to the change of funding for higher education and to the greater independence of the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education. The candidate later replied that the first task of education, that it is ideologically unburdened and that at the same time it builds on values, must become one of the core tasks of the entire school. In saving, he stressed that more responsibilities and more rights, therefore more powers, should be left to directors, rectors and other leaders in the field of education who directly decide on these matters. With regard to the issue of political cleansing at the public institute of RTV Slovenia – where, as you know, it is obviously illegal to interfere with the MMC, in one of the best online portals in Slovenia – the candidate for a minister stressed the need to ensure by the country the conditions, legislation and environment of business opportunities that the media are actually free and competing with each other. In doing so, he has made a special commitment to fulfil the coalition agreement so that the state will not interfere with the freedom of the work of journalists and the media; on the contrary, it must lay down the framework for this freedom to be achieved to the fullest extent possible. With regard to the Act, he said that he was not a proponent of this Agreement and would not support legislation that would in any way allow for wiretapping on the Internet, but also pointed out that some of the findings of this Agreement were unfounded. Regarding the funding of the university, he explained that he would do everything in the future to ensure that the reputation of the country that had committed itself to certain activities would not be affected, but that he would actually take into account the current financial situation in Slovenia as Minister and would also apply to the organisation of the European basketball championship in 2013. He announced that the Ministry would support domestic beauty and scientific literature and would advocate that more Slovenian books be accessible in the form of an electronic book, whose growing importance was highlighted and at the same time that the purchase of copyrights, which must be consistently respected, would be increased. He stressed that in the future he would take over and modernise the public sector in culture, meaning more intensive cooperation with various organisations such as the Association and others. In his opinion, it will also be necessary to modernise the public service of RTV Slovenia in order to avoid further lifting of the subscription. With regard to education, he concluded by stressing that teachers are key in ensuring that schools work well and that he is committed to making the teaching profession more valuable. In the area of higher education, as it is said, he will be committed to the establishment of the Slovenian University of Technology, because higher education in his opinion needs more competition. In financing this area, however, it will commit itself to regressive financing and to rewarding quality, which will become a constant in the functioning of this Minister. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The report of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Before the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, 9th 2. Presented candidate for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrej Vizjak. In the opening presentation, the candidate first presented a general assessment of the situation in the Republic of Slovenia. In all areas, there has been a drastic decline in economic activity and, consequently, jobs. Approximately 50,000 citizens and citizens are less employed, resulting in greater pressure on social transfers and transfers from unemployment insurance. He further presented his position on work, mentioned that it is a very important principle of social dialogue and of an intergenerational agreement, so that one of the short-term tasks of the future government will be to reach a new social agreement with an intergenerational agreement and burdens will have to be proportionally distributed among generations in the future. As soon as possible, agreement should be reached with the social partners in key substantive areas. He then highlighted the labour market in particular. Unemployment has increased over the last period from 69,000 to 116 000 people currently registered, which will need to be addressed – strategic objectives – and by 2015, employment to 75% of the 20-40 age group and unemployment to the 2008 level. In agreement with the social partners, the number and extent of passive forms of assistance to the unemployed should be reduced to an increase in active employment policies and the early integration of the unemployed into the labour market. It estimates that public works should also be organised in the private sector. Its aim is to ensure that the unemployed person is at the employment institution for less than two months in order to be included as soon as possible in the working environment, including in public works in a number of areas. It is important, therefore, that the unemployed acquire a new professional qualification during this period and then become employed or self-employed in this context. He stressed the establishment of a fund for retirement, the strengthening of active employment policy measures, especially for young and older people. The priority objective is to involve young people in work, and special care will be given to older people to enable them to continue their activities if they remain unemployed. In doing so, the candidate highlighted the integration of generations with mentoring schemes and similar links between those entering employment and those before retirement. It will support the development of regional scholarship schemes. He also stressed the need to renovate the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure a faster response to the labour market situation, rationalising the procedures for the integration of the unemployed into employment. The Office will have to relieve certain tasks and works already carried out by other institutions, particularly in relation to education and scholarships. The Active Employment Policy Programme will need to reduce the fragmentation of programmes and focus on effective programmes in particular. The effect shall mean quality employment that lasts for an indefinite period of time and where the employee receives a fair remuneration for honest work. The labour market will need to be monitored more effectively, the greatest anomaly is employment and black work, non-payment of work and contributions, and exploitation, thus violating the principles of safe and healthy work. The integrity of labour law is also a major problem, so the government has already drafted a new law that will be examined by the Ministry and sought common solutions through social dialogue. In the area of pensions, he stressed the informational personal calculation which should encourage inclusion in pension insurance, also provide information on what we can expect at age, thereby strengthening the link between the contributions paid and the actual pension that we can receive after the end of working life. The new law on rights from public funds is more transparent, fairer, prevents abuses, more taken into account the individual's assets in the acquisition of rights, introduces a single entry point, but has not yet come to life because of complexity, so it will be necessary to look at what is happening with the system and then to intervene. In the area of social or institutional protection, the candidate stressed that there is too much emphasis on strengthening institutional protection and that other forms are less developed. Most of the debates and debaters praised the excellent presentation of the candidate. They also expressed expectations for the best possible cooperation. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee, by a majority of votes to 9, with 2 votes, adopted the opinion that the presentation was mags. Mr Andrej Visiak as the candidate for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The last report is the report of the Committee on the Economy, which will be presented by President Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be as brief as possible because you've received an extensive report on the bench. The Prime Minister of the Government is 4. 2. 2012 He presented a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government to the President of the National Assembly and proposed Mr Mag. Mr Radovan Žerja, who presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on the Economy on 7 February 2012. In his opening presentation, the proposed candidate for minister outlined his current career and a long-standing political path. Furthermore, he presented his views and orientations on further economic development in the context of the deep economic and financial crisis and poor prospects for economic growth next year, both for us and for the euro area as a whole. He stressed that the prospects for the development of Slovenia, as indicated by the Coalition Treaty, could only be achieved by stopping and creating a competitive business environment for economic operators. This can be ensured through the financial and administrative burden of the Slovenian economy. The burdens are linked to the adoption of a series of measures, such as the change in the income scale, the introduction of a social cap, the increase in tax reliefs on the one hand, and changes in the area of the placement of facilities on the other hand. He considered that the measures for a more competitive business environment were mainly linked to the removal of credit crunches, greater support for small and micro-enterprises, foreign investments, support for the Bank's SID, promotion of creativity, innovation and branding, greater integration of the economy and science and the promotion of faster development of tourism. Greater responsibility for faster penetration of Slovenian companies into foreign markets and the acquisition of foreign investors will, in his opinion, also have to be taken over by our diplomatic and consular representations. They are expected to put an end to the stalemate in European cohesion funds and focus on building strategic innovative projects in the coming years. The following questions were raised by the members and members of the committee to the Minister's candidate, which highlighted in particular the issue of emergency measures for the start-up of the Slovenian economy, the removal of the credit crunch and the related rehabilitation of banks, the provision of appropriate conditions for the acquisition of foreign investors in the Slovenian economic area, the sale or possibility of recapitalisation of individual companies, and the preservation of established brands such as Mercator, Pivovarna Laško, Primorje, Gorenje and others. Particular attention has also been paid to reducing the development differences between individual regions and the potential for local communities to be indebted to infrastructure projects. In its replies to the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee, the proposed candidate for a minister has further detailed and concrete knowledge of his views, views, opinions and the measures envisaged. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the opinion by 12 votes to one with one vote that the presentation was magi. Radovan Žerjava as a candidate for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Mr Mikhael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished candidate and candidate for ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After a good year ago, the first cracks of the ruling coalition began to appear, and on June 5th, the whole package of government laws fell in the referendum, it was clear that the story of the government had been completed. It's been eight months since then. For eight months, unfortunately, we lost valuable time instead of working on the basis of the stabilisation of public finances to work on counter-crisis measures to provide operational services to citizens, to the economy at its highest level at a time when they may need it most. Today is the day when we choose a new ministerial team, one that will already acquire all the powers that will have gained legitimacy in the elections. Such a team that can start work tomorrow and do what we all wanted, including the wider Slovenian public – we are setting up an operational team to come out of the crisis. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are very pleased with what we have had the opportunity to hear on the competent committees at the hearings of ministerial candidates. The performances were structured, clearly oriented, mostly very real, without being beautifully said. All candidates are well aware of the responsibility they have assumed. In most cases, even the opposition has acknowledged that it is a matter of good knowledge of the areas, that it is people who have all the competence to manage their departments. A criticism of the political government and the lack of expertise could also be touched here. Not only did the hearings prove the opposite, but even more so; in the Slovenian People's Party we believe that these political experiences in the near future will be crucial to the successful implementation of the reforms that await us. Slovenia is at a turning point, the coming mandate is likely to be the most difficult in our short independent history. Only the professional basis and the preparation of legislation will not be sufficient. It will be necessary: a great deal of communication, a lot of coordination, a search for compromises, clarifications, media exposure, in short a lot of what we call politics. Why do we think in the Slovenian People's Party that this government team is special? Because it is the government of five independent, equivalent political parties who are able to talk and even a final agreement. This is a matter for parties with different views, but who at the same time are aware that only their ability to reach an agreement depends on whether or not a certain movement will take place. This has also been demonstrated at the constructive meeting of the National Assembly, as well as in the short time following it, when extremely intensive talks were held in order to speed up all procedures to achieve the final goal – the establishment of a full operational government of the Republic of Slovenia. This ministerial assembly will, under the common agreement of all the parties, try to do everything possible to act quickly, but with the full cooperation of all the segments of our society. We only see the solution through thorough discussions and the face-to-face of concrete arguments with a clear will and the awareness of all those involved that there will be no change. If I simplify; for negotiating tables, it will sit as many times as it will be necessary to achieve the best final solution. If I touch the contents of the work of the future government. The common feature of the development, priorities of the coalition treaty is also the awareness that each ministerial sector will have to operate with less resources than it has done so far. Saving is the word that we are all silently afraid of, but at the same time we are aware that we will have to include it in all times of our society. The Government's core task will be to make this part less socially weak. Many in Slovenia warn against saving, preventing consumption, deepening the crisis. I hope there are not those among them who have managed to double state debt in just a few years. Slovenia is in a very specific situation. Indeed, we do not fall within the category of countries with a long-standing democratic tradition, which have shown high budgetary surpluses over the years, creating financial reserves that today are reflected in financial injections to their economies. The Slovenian economy has focused all its powers and resources on transition transformation for a good decade. That is why, with many, probably wrong decisions in the past, we are today an economy that has grown one billion and 700 million less annually than our country is ultimately spending. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Slovenian public, today we are at a turning point to make a sharp cut after twenty years of indecisiveness – not at the bottom, not at the people who have been in unseen situations and faced with poverty, a sharp cut is needed to eliminate all those privileges that have been acquired over the years by individual informal interest groups. The new government must not be afraid of this. The new government will have confidence in citizens and citizens in its reform efforts only if it gives the feeling that it is creating a just society where there are no elected and privileged people, where the rules and laws apply to everyone. That's why eight months later, there's enough big words. We believe in this good purpose in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, so today we will be happy to support this ministerial assembly and give it a mandate to start work immediately. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u60	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Before us is the smallest government team so far; before us, I dare say, the most experienced government team that Slovenia is overtaken at this moment. The Minister is a political function, which is likely to be agreed upon by all, and his primary task is to run the department efficiently and well. In the past, there have been many impressions that the Minister must be the best expert in the field covered by the individual ministry. As a result, these ministers, the professors, have repeatedly embarked on individual professional decisions and have forgotten the effective and good management of the ministry. And what was going on? They saw the trees, but they didn't see the woods. And since this has happened, the Ministry has run the ministry most of the time, not the Minister of State. During this period of hearing, some of you were quick to judge individual candidates before they could even show what they were capable of and what they knew. I'm going to mention an over-extended and experienced minister, a political cat, if I'm going to have a little fun, Karl Erjavac. I wouldn't write it off like that, but I think he's been a great diplomat a number of times, and there's still a lot of good he can do in this place. Just because there is a problem in Slovenia if ministerial functions take over politics and some cases from the north. If I go to the German case first. Angela Merkel was first Minister of Youth and Women, then Minister of the Environment and then Chancellor. Perhaps this is an excruciating case for Slovenia, and let's take a look at one of the classic German parliamentarians, Wolfgang Schäubla: he was Minister for Special Tasks, he was Minister of the Interior and Minister of Finance. All right, if the German Prime Minister is not well, then let's go to Austria: Wolfgang Schüssel – Minister of Economic Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs and then Chancellor; Josef Pröll, for example – Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Finance. Maybe you don't like the Austrian and German premieres, even though we like to compare ourselves with them a lot, I'll be a little more exotic. Consider the British example: Winston Churchill was Minister of Commerce, was Minister of the Interior, Minister of the Navy, Minister of Arms, Minister of Finance and Economics and Prime Minister. This one had, say, a rich political career, and no one denied that politics was also a minister. Before 2004, we have often heard stories about how this beautiful Slovenia of ours can only have one government team, and for another government team, we do not have enough experts. Even more, it was said that the government team only had one side trained and the other doesn't have one. But I think that 2004 was the final proof that Slovenia has several government teams and that it is healthy and wise for these government teams to exchange power among themselves. This year, a similar coalition assumes responsibility for the leadership of the country, as it was taken over in 2004. This is encouraging to me or to us in New Slovenia, because there was a lot of good done at the time, many steps were taken. Of course, it does not have to be stressed that the candidates have our support, but let me say thanks to the opposition, despite the inappropriate observations, for it has shown on the committees that the opposition has also expressed its constructiveness by supporting the candidates. I give you our compliments. Of course, I expect you to continue this constructiveness today, because then it is difficult for me to imagine the words of Mr Zoran Jankovic, who has repeatedly said that we must not speak one and work the other. If I conclude, that is all: I expect if you have supported the ministers and ministers on the committees, then it would be a great sign of constructiveness to do so today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is the beginning of a period that has been objectively expected at least eight months ago, at least since some important legal solutions of today's outgoing governments have failed due to all known circumstances. Whether such political changes have been necessary, whether the past months have been delayed, and whether there are too little concrete solutions in our society, including the formation of a new government, are questions on which our highly politically plural society would find it difficult to formulate uniform answers. This is why it is most important at this point that we are just before the confirmation of the new 10th government in the independent Republic of Slovenia. All, perhaps especially the new government team, are aware of the complexity of today’s time and also of this symbolic moment, that is, today. Expectations are more than great, perhaps questionable to some extent, but we hope that the new government will be able to bear the burden and succeed. At the presentations of ministerial candidates, we may have the impression that these are real people with good and mostly realistic ideas and that their willingness to change and create added value in our society is unequivocal. In the case of candidates, despite some subjective partial eyewitnesses, we were able to see a sufficient degree of professional subordination to perform an important ministerial function. However, we are probably all aware together that in given, extremely difficult circumstances, that is not enough. Symbolically speaking: the whole society must be prepared for radical change. In doing so, it is important to stress that, or will be, the most important objective responsibility is in the executive branch. On the ground, we get the feeling that most citizens are aware of the situation we are in, and are all who objectively assess the current situation, even if they are willing to bite into an acid apple, expecting things to actually start to change for the better. The fact is that the new government, in particular the new government simply has no room for manoeuvre for error, which means that it will have to approach the country's leadership with determination, precision, respect for problems and citizens, in particular fair and effective. On this occasion, I will only point out the criterion of justice. The government and all of us, together, who are responsible for the present and future of the country, must honestly assess and assess where are the possibilities and reserves for the start of the recovery of the situation. Unfortunately, today in our society there are groups of people who are blameless in such a social situation where tightening the belt cannot be taken into account. This belt, unfortunately, had been broken a long time ago. Therefore, from the point of view of the reduction of the budget deficit, savings should be made where there are still opportunities or where there are objectively possible delays in the area of activities and programmes. We estimate that the direction of the new government in this regard is at least to begin with – in terms of people's trust in the rule of law, because without it all efforts will unfortunately be unsuccessful, there will be an extraordinary need for efficiency in the field of judicial action. There has already been a certain qualitative shift in this area in recent years, which will require a more successful and intensive continuation. Within our parliamentary group, we will support the proposed government team of Prime Minister Janez Janša. As has been pointed out several times, however, given certain comments that the situation has not yet been clarified to a certain extent, I must point out that our decision has been conditional on two important factors in particular. Our position, which fully benefited from the support of all and all the organisations of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, was that a Member of the indigenous national communities could contribute to the approval of the mandate holder and then governments, if two basic conditions were met. Firstly, the potential mandate holder or his government must take into account proposals and expectations relating to the existence and development of the indigenous national community. Secondly, to form a stable government coalition between parties willing to cooperate and take responsibilities so that a decision can be reached without the votes of Members of indigenous national communities. This does not mean that Members of the national communities are different or less important than other Members, because this is not the case, but simply that their mission on the basis of constitutional principles is specific to certain issues or decisions and to the way in which they are elected. Once again, I would like to stress that it would be politically and morally unacceptable for a member of the National Communities to decide on the party's colour or whether they are members of a coalition or opposition. Both conditions are fulfilled in the event of the appointment of a new government, so today we will be pleased to support it. Against the end of the line, I would like to point out that, despite the clearly positive attitude of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue, there is still much to be done because the decline in the number of members of our communities is, unfortunately, still too intense. The reasons for this are many, and the most important are the shortcomings in the implementation of legislation from a legal point of view, and the problem is also in a wide range of environmentally friendly issues. It is therefore important that the potential new government commits itself to systematically upgrading minority legislation in the foreground by means of a general law on indigenous national community to create better economic conditions in national mixed areas and to create a mile that, on the basis of mutual respect and acceptance, wants to contribute to the better conservation and development of national communities. We hope to be successful in this together. Finally, if you allow me to respond to an independent international report on early elections, especially because the President of the Government has also identified himself in his opening address. The report also denies the double electoral rights of members of the national communities, which, contrary to other likely substantiated comments, is not justified in our opinion, as this is adopted in the context of collective rights decisions of the Hungarian and Italian communities, which are based among others on international obligations and positive discrimination. This right is a specific option for the participation of those communities that take nothing from anyone else. In view of the basic principles of the European Union and of the Council of Europe, it also means the right already guaranteed, which has always been mentioned by Slovenia as a model country in the field of respect for human and national rights. Therefore, changing this would mean reducing or limiting the already guaranteed legal level, which is probably not the interest of the European Community or anyone in Slovenia, I am sure that at least the new Slovenian governments are still. I wish the new government a lot of success, perseverance and, above all, given the actual circumstances, a very friendly environment for carrying out the planning tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Zoran Jankovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u64	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I see there's a few of us in the hall, and I'm sorry that there's no Prime Minister to hear that. In this Chamber, we have more than 60% of the new faces that we face for the first time with the temple of democracy, with today's election of the government this percentage will increase, and I also expect – no offense to older colleagues who have already sat here for several mandates – that they will bring something new. Thus is our joint decision, today before this meeting, that we will not participate in the debates today, because this task has already been carried out by the committees. In my opinion, they did this excellently, very well, because it has been seen that individual candidates received the maximum number of votes, it is said, that they agree on their candidacy, which they prove by their professional programme and also by their work so far that they have shown confidence that they can do so. It has also been seen that there is a vote in the section, what someone thinks, what someone feels in these presentations, that the issues were different, but in the end, all the candidates were agreed. That is why I think it is time for us to show citizens and citizens that we can be different, that there is no time today, in these difficult times when we use these minutes to perform on television and to broadcast to our homes by spitting, pissing off individual candidates. We will not use this and we will wish all candidates and candidates a good job. So, there will be no debate on our part, that was our decision. As to whether we will vote against the government – personally, I will not vote against the government, including Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia will abstain and not vote against the government. I see this as my own mandate, and the President of the Government has the right to choose his associates, coworkers who trust them and who will work together for the good of this country. If he doesn't, he'll take responsibility. After he's assembled his team when he's given the legal right to form a government – today I won't talk about legitimacy, given the elections, that no one will think I'm offended – it seems to me that the government that's playing with its programme today should just start working right now. Today, the President of the Government and also the predecessors mentioned in the debate that this is practically the same coalition that was already in 2004-2008, in the years of fat cows, in the years of economic euphoria, and they praised the good work of this coalition, which they have now restored. Personally, I don't think that was the case, because if that were true, then 2008 would have won the next election and they didn't. And also the leading party, which has practically participated in all reforms as an anti-reformist from 2008 to 2011, has created the atmosphere that reforms need to be brought down, the most well-known from 5 June, three times against the government and a quarter against the government – is now given a difficult task of continuing its work. I do not want to repeat the stories in this mandate in the field of economy; I am interested in what will happen now in the companies that have been mentioned: the two largest state banks, Pivovarna Laško, Luka Koper, Hit Nova Gorica, Primorje Ajdovščina, and this is the time when the government should give 100 days of peace to show the first steps, because the basic idea of the programme seems good to me. If we do not reduce the number of unemployed, there is virtually no chance of success. At the same time, it is also necessary to add to this state deficit halving programme, which is correct, the real billion 700 will be reduced by 800 million, but I am sure that this will not only be done through austerity measures. Finally, the whole world, and Europe in Davos in particular, has come to know – and Mrs Merklov has for the first time said publicly that investment must be invested, investment must be encouraged, new jobs must be sought, otherwise no government in the world has the opportunity to succeed. I also offer this unpopular measure here, and I will not be offended if you take the VAT and raise it by one point, especially this upper level, because this budget will really need to be corrected and halved in the area of deficit. I also wonder whether the government will now adopt new positions on media legislation so that it will not do the same as it did in 2004-2008. I want this rate that we have now received on media freedom and we have advanced last year for 10 cities to continue and we are free. I am very interested in what will happen to the judiciary, for there have been many cases where this has not been the case — justice, justice and justice in this country. Finally, I am very interested in the question of how the government will act in the event of the protection of human rights and freedoms. Now is the ideal opportunity for a referendum to be held on March 25th on the Family Code to be supported by the government. She does not need to spend money on the referendum campaign; she can only express her clear opinion that the Family Code, which guarantees human rights, supports. This will also prove how he intends to proceed. In the field of economy and human rights, the protection of freedom, the protection of the judiciary, the independence of the prosecution and the judiciary, I am interested in whether it intends to carry out the human rights tsunami it has once shown. It is not that it does not have the right to replace personnel, especially those on the political line of ministries, but that it does not have the right to have rights where the majority state owns, it is simply a known fact that the exchanges between 2004 and 2008 have practically brought individual companies from the fall. I will not list them, because we are not in the elections, but I am just warning that we will be very careful and that we will look at them as constructive opposition, especially in these areas that I have mentioned. Well, we're not voting against the government. Now it's your question if we support this government. We will not do that either, and I will abstain here, and I will not support the government, and I will not vote in favour. The main reason is that the hand we offered as the opposition in adopting the Government Act did not accept the position. We didn't mean anything by it, but mostly good. We wanted what Mr Erjavec, as an experienced lawyer and today referred to as an excellent political tiger in every situation, to one of the negotiations convinced two doctors of law, Mr Virant and Mr Vlačič that the prosecution did not fall under internal affairs, but that it must remain under justice, and they both accepted. And I am interested in how they will now vote – Mr Erjavec and Mr Virant and SD on this issue, because we have offered to amend the Government Act, even Mr Gorenak has announced the amendment, and then he has taken his word, which is not nice, and we get a law that would get the consent of all Members and Members. That's the first reason. The second reason is the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. At the time of the adoption of the Government Act, I suggested to Mr Janez Janša that he return the Ministry of Culture and that if the opposition proposes one more ministry, the position can be extremely easy to say, "We have respected the opposition's proposal, that is their proposal, we do so." At the time of the elections, I myself advocated, if I am not mistaken, the largest number of ministries among all candidates, I think I spoke of 11, everyone else about less, and I would be happy to support also 13, the Ministry of Culture, because in this united Europe this area is symbolic; the one that preserves the image of our country, our words and is our most powerful way of fighting for independence and recognition. That's two reasons why I won't support this government. In any case, I wish the government a successful job. You may find it strange, but not if the government's work is good, if citizens and citizens are satisfied, it means that we are all on the right track to get out of the crisis. The Prime Minister mentioned a partnership for development, which he will also offer to the opposition. I have already read in the media that they have now received this proposal, we have not yet received it. We will wait to see what it says here; but whether we sign it or not, we will remain in the same position that all those good proposals that are good for citizens, citizens, are good for the country, we will support. I was myself pleased with the meeting in Villa Podróžnik, which today's Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, organised, invited all the party presidents and the party president and presented some urgent programmes. There we reached a high consensus, even a high level of necessary action, but something else happened. Since that conversation that was obviously beautiful and good for the cameras, the thing stopped. The government has this right to stop, but then it should say that the laws are too weak — the laws are good — and they will fix them. I still advocate that the word given should be said that what we say should also be applied, not that we constantly change. The government and the state are waiting for an extremely difficult period of five months, until 30 June, when it will be necessary to agree with all stakeholders in the social dialogue on the necessary reforms – with the pensioners' association, unions – who each have their own requirements. A good month and a half ago, they gave us a deadline, agreed that they were willing to negotiate and talk, to seek consensus, to seek a position and also an agreement that would protect the poorest layer, and at the same time to develop the whole country. Here your action will be shown whether what you have been saying is also seriously meant or will result in different views. Personally as a Member, I will never propose referendums, because it seems to me that this action is not meant for us. Here, in this Chamber, we have the right to agree on better measures; this is the right left to citizens and citizens if they are not satisfied with the government's solutions if they are not satisfied with the laws adopted by the National Assembly to exercise their right. But today is the time to step together. I myself had different views on many points regarding the development of the country of Slovenia, but I am pleased with what I heard today when Mr Janez Janša said that positiveism and optimism should be created among citizens. And that's true. In our own case, we must show that we wish the country all good. That we do not base the government on who is more our own or not ours; that we respect those who do their job well, and that it does not matter what customer card they have. Maybe it's easier for me to talk about it because we're a young party and we're not so burdened by the past. But respect for our history, respect for the gains we have won, is the foundation that also gives us the basis for further development. A nation that doesn't respect history doesn't have a future either. And I wouldn't quote Churchill's history or Mrs. Merklov's, who is undoubtedly successful, what they've done, because it doesn't matter what anyone's done to us today, because today we're going to get the government. Let us assess this government after how successful it will be: whether it will be able to halve the deficit, whether the standard of citizens will be higher, or, after all, annual economic growth in four years 4%. Don't forget what the managers at the Manager's Association said. Dr. King said, "You're too ambitious, you're too narrow." Not only among the 15 countries in the European Union, we have every opportunity to be among the fifteen best countries in the world! And that's what he's basing it on with more k's. Among other things, he talked about the personnel — that we have people in Slovenia who know who can and who want. And if we achieve unification in the areas of the economy, then we will also have economic success. And they will provide us with public health, public education, social rights, solidarity, which is essential in our country. So, on our part, expect constructive opposition. Positive Slovenia will monitor all government actions. We will be happy to support those who will be good, where we think they will go to the detriment of the country, but we will pay close attention to what is not good, everything with the aim of making Slovenia go better. So much for the position of Positive Slovenia. And once again, congratulations to the boards that the hearings were not dominated by an ideological debate, but by an expert. When I was monitoring these hearings in the media — their conclusions, as television has shown, I did not fully monitor them — I was glad that the future minister received a round of applause in addition to all the votes. Which means we can go through division and we can respect both the program and the history of good work so far. Let good work be done in the future, and good work will be supported in Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! After all the plausible complications two weeks ago, we elected Commissioner Janez Janša. The day before, we passed the opposition government law, which is complementary, but today we are deciding on the mandate of his ministerial team. It is a small, one-third smaller team than its predecessor, which will have to be significantly more homogeneous in order to be able to prepare the effective measures the country needs and expects for the last three years. The situation is not simple. We are on our way to the most endangered countries of the European Union. The situation and trends are bad, they are bad prospects, because the predictions of our Umar and the forecasts of the European Union are not promising. Economic growth is expected to slow down, some predict a new recession. The country's ratings and the ratings of our financial institutions are falling rapidly. Liquid money is dwindling and its price is rising. There is no need for developmental optimism, there is a series of downturns in societies and the types in employment institutions are increasing. In such a situation, when red alarms are burning due to public finances and other conditions, today, I hope so, we will place the 10th Slovenian government. It will not have the opportunity, like its predecessor, to raise budgetary spending high and to cover its style of governance, its style of governance. Let me remind you that for each year of the mandate, the government has taken at least €1.7 to 1.8 billion more than it has earned, and that we have thus come very close to the limit of 50% of the public debt in the share of the gross product, but we may be over – we will see what the post-transmission analysis will show. In just three years, the outgoing government has brought public debt from a safe dark-green area to a dangerous dark-red state. The lights lit in exactly the opposite order as at the famous government traffic light. However, this was not the only area where the lights were turned on in the wrong direction, the same was true in the labour market, in the banking system, in the financing of companies and elsewhere. Every day we monitor the problems in the functioning of the banking system, we dismiss the directors, the managers of the largest financial institutions in the country. The Capital Investment Management Agency is directing its human resources policy in a very specific way, and I hope that what has happened and is happening will not be attributed to the incoming government's human resources tsunami. The new government will have to start immediately to stop the debt. The first year will aim to reduce spending by around 10%, which means that fundamental changes in mentality will be needed in concepts, approaches, organisational forms, cooperation and more. We need a government that will work immediately, as there is virtually no time for introduction. This list of ministers is promising because, among them, candidates who have already proven themselves to be ministers in responsible positions already have the necessary experience and feelings. But there is something new, and they have performed important tasks in other places in the public sector or in the economy. The work of ministers will be particularly difficult and difficult, as it will be necessary to take mergers and reorganisations at the same time in the majority of the resources, not to diminish rationalisation and the immediate preparation of the necessary conversion measures. There will be a lot of problems, but there will be a lot of judgment, courage and co-operation not only within the spheres, not only within the political space, but much broader. Positive participation in the measures proposed by the government will not be reformable, is expected from economic and social partners, employers, trade unions, other civil society or stakeholders, and also from the opposition. All of these have already proved to be able to adapt to the needs of the country where necessary. Since the macroeconomic origins are known and the objectives to be achieved by Slovenia are also known, if it is to be re-entered not only between promising but between successful countries, cooperation should be put at an appropriate level of mutual respect, consideration, argument and sense of right. As I've already said, the team of ministers will be considerably reduced. The majority of ministers will have to take on new, some even more, in addition to the usual, responsibilities in the department so far. Some so-called superresors have been created, which has caused many public doubts. Many wondered who would be able to control such a superresor. There were doubts about the candidates' abilities, and before that, these candidates were even proposed. However, if we look a little over the country's borders, we quickly notice that some of the countries are much larger, some ten times larger or more larger, just as much or maybe just some ministry more than Slovenia. Does anyone wonder how they can do it there, and how they can still be effective there? Are we really not capable of other than eternally doubting the political opposite, its proposals, moves and candidates? Without knowing who would perform the task, and without waiting for the results of his work, sharp arrows of doubt flew. However, those who shot them also had similar plans: a reduction in the number of institutions, the number of resources, i.e. the transformation of the government and the state administration to the same or approximately the same number of ministries, and also a significant extension of the list of tasks and responsibilities of ministers and ministries. There may be a different way of putting it, there are always different combinations, but in the end it would be quite similar and all the tasks should also be done. I believe that it is necessary for every single government to adapt and shape the distribution of resources and institutions so that it can work as effectively as possible, as we probably need it. In recent times, there have been many questions or even objections to the different placement of culture, the prosecution, the environment, space and some other areas. The aim of a different placement in the resources is not a deterioration, but an improvement, a more rational regime, as in those other non-controversial areas that have not changed. Nothing meant that we had, for example, a separate Ministry of Culture and a Minister of Culture in the previous term — both the party and the minister were sworn in to culture. And just in the previous mandate, there were 60 million European funds earmarked for investment in culture allocated for other purposes, perhaps for telecommunications as well. In the previous term, he also did not act well, for example, the Film Fund, because there were a lot of human resources here. Also, many of the potentials from all spheres of culture have not received the expected or sought support, and some have been supported by foreign countries, and they are also rewarded and reaped great success beyond borders. We know that not everything is in money, that there are other important criteria, but let's try a new organisation; if it doesn't work, we can still fix it, maybe in this or in the next term. It is similar in other areas. Many will need to be removed from the label of exclusivity or privileges when some privileged groups have managed to achieve such a legal solution that it is impossible to avoid them, so many solutions are complicated, long-term, needlessly expensive and do not allow a citizen to do anything on his own. We have these cases in the area, we have in the judiciary, and where and where these anomalies are, these stickers will have to be removed as soon as possible. The Minister's hearings were held. In the Group of Members, we estimate that the presentations were comprehensive, excellently prepared and that further clarifications of the candidates on the questions raised were also appropriate. This is also indicated by the vote on the committees. From 192 votes to 160, 146 votes in favour, all 12 candidates for ministers. On average, more than three-quarters of all votes were cast. If the votes on the working bodies on which the candidates were thoroughly questioned are a fair criterion, fair criteria, if the votes were made on the basis of the content and quality of their presentations and their confidence, then the election of that Government should be supported by a large majority and with only a small vote against. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished candidates for ministers! Your mission will be difficult, but not insurmountable. We wish you a successful job, we want Slovenia to return to the path of promising, exemplary European countries and that the country and as many citizens as possible begin to live off the fruits of their work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the list of government teams submitted by mandate-holder Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the introduction, I can say that the Social Democrats are aware of the difficult circumstances in which they are serving as ministers and ministers. The global economy is going into the second round of the crisis, so we hope that you will already feel the difference between the performances of the election campaign, when you have offered with great ease the people's preferred solutions, the negotiation of coalition commitments, the hearings of the Committees of the National Assembly and the reality that awaits you in the event of an election. We understand that you have also taken time to prepare and transform ministries almost by Wednesday April when the first regular meeting of the National Assembly is planned. But let me start by saying that you will not have our support for the appointment, because we do not want to give you silence, but we will require you to do a serious and responsible work, which we will follow as a state-favouring opposition. We stress that our constructive policy, which introduces peace, security and stability into society, and a reasoned decision that puts content ahead of form and does not serve the biased interests of the most powerful, will be a key feature of the work of the Group of Social Democrats in the opposition. The dynamics of changes in the world are growing faster, so our expectations are that you will follow them and thus prevent the deterioration of the situation of the Slovenian economy and, consequently, all of us. We will support the necessary measures to deal with the serious situation, although good practice of coordinating the parties' presidents on an agreement on the implementation of the necessary measures has been concluded in a way that you have not supported the Public Finance Act prepared by the Borut Pahor Government. This missed an opportunity to calm Slovenia's declining credit rating trend. However, we are confident that this coordination must continue in the future. It should be noted, however, that there is a significant difference between the Social Democrats and the content of the future government's coalition contract, mainly in relation to state assets and capital investment returns. When we decided to sell capital shares in companies and manage them from the cabinet of the Prime Minister and individual ministers, the return on capital increased. We have proven that the country can function as any private owner of property. The total book value of the direct shares of the Republic of Slovenia in companies was 8.65 billion euros at the end of 2010. Business profit increased by 45%, to EUR 289 million. It is possible to follow a neoliberal approach to governance from the coalition contract, which means that the assets of the Slovenian State will be sold. Therefore, we will not agree to the thesis that the state is a bad host because such a claim in public justifies the necessity of selling state property. In fact, this is behind the interest in enriching the private at the expense of revenues that could be an inflow into the state budget. We are also social democrats for a resolution on the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank on the basis of which the European Bank for Development and some other financial investors would recapitalise the Bank. We are also in favour of a solution whereby employees in the New Ljubljana Bank recapitalise the bank. However, the country must remain the largest owner and the rest of ownership must be dispersed because we do not want the management of the bank to be transferred abroad. In addition to the full predominance of capital over people, we also point to the depletion of public finances in the area of education and education, where private schools, schools and universities will be financed by public funds. This in itself does not yet guarantee a higher quality of education and study. There is also a trend in the introduction of tuition, which would significantly restrict access to education. We are aware of the need to take measures to ensure a safe age, which could be ensured by our pension reform, and we certainly cannot guarantee this by introducing individual accounts because it actually allows safe age only for privileged groups. There will also be a need for a health reform that will end additional health insurance. However, we believe that the introduction of a competitive health insurance company is a contribution to the fragmentation of funds rather than rationalising the functioning of the insurance company. Thus, in order to take over capital over people, which would be reflected in access to education, employment, access to health care and, above all, in obtaining an adequate pension, we believe that it increases differences between people, which is not acceptable for us. We will strongly oppose this and prove that there is also a different solution and that this alternative can be provided by the Social Democrats. Taking into account the fact that there are important programme and value differences between the Social Democrats and the incoming government, we will vote against the appointment of ministers and ministers in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Today we love the jubilee, the 10th Slovenian self-sustaining government. Not only in this, but in many ways this government will be something special in our history. This is a project government that will have to take Slovenia out of the crisis and the bulk of the measures will have to be subordinated to it. It is a government which is highly expected and its success will depend on the trust of people, social partners, civil society and the participation of the entire Slovenian policy. The government consists of five quite different political parties, which on the one hand can be the weakness of this government, but we are convinced that this can also be its strength, impact and advantage. Government measures will certainly not be welcome, but they must be fair, efficient and decisive, so that citizens understand them, and especially those that will stabilise and drive the country out of both the economic crisis and the crisis of values. This government is an optimal combination of political and professional experience, promising success and optimising optimism. We love the government with so far the smallest number of ministries, only 11 plus 1. Remember, the Demos government had 26 ministries and four vice-presidents of the government. Thus, in 20 years, the number of ministries has been reduced by up to two thirds, and for just as certain increases in the volume of work, which means the exceptional responsibility and courage of the entire ministerial team. In no government has the role of a finance minister so far been so crucial; close cooperation with the Prime Minister and the coherence of the entire team government depends on whether or not this government succeeds. The Citizens' List will support the proposed list of ministers with a sincere wish that the government will succeed, in the interests of Slovenia and all of us. So that there may be not too many words, let the government begin with its work or as an outcry from medieval knightly games: let us get to know you at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u72	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the list of candidates and candidates for the Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me begin by presenting the position of the DeSUS Group on the list of candidates and candidates for ministers of the new, 10 Slovenian government, with one of the Slovenian weeks, which called the new government "a team for difficult times". We also join this name in our parliamentary group, as the new composition assumes the leadership of the country in the most difficult times since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Surely the new government will have an extremely difficult job, which is indicated by the criticisms that have arisen before they were known candidates for ministers. I am referring, of course, to the amendment of the Government Act, which has upset the Slovenian public, especially the various interest associations, which will obviously find it difficult to accept the need for saving in all areas. The state treasury is not a bottomless bag, and we will all have to deal with it sooner or later. The burden of resolving the financial and economic crisis will have to be shared with each other by means of social dialogue and a compromise social agreement that will lead the Slovenian country out of the crisis as quickly as possible and as painfully as possible. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the new composition of the government is coalitionly balanced, which means that responsibility will be evenly distributed among all members of the ministerial epic. So together they will bear all the weight of responsibility for success as well as for possible failures, for good and possible bad decisions, for good and possible bad results. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group are convinced that all candidates for ministers are aware of what they are being submitted to and that these tasks are being carried out with full responsibility. We are also convinced that they will do their job well, especially if the opposition keeps its word that it will cooperate constructively and will not dictate to the new government. I think that everyone sitting here today, as well as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, agrees that the new government will not have an easy job. Unfortunately, the state treasury is less than empty, the revenue is less, the debt is becoming too expensive, so we will have to cut costs and save. This will certainly not make the new government popular; many, especially those who have been privileged for years and years, will be forced to share the fate of most citizens and citizens, so the new government expects the most criticism and protests on their part. Unfortunately, we cannot avoid saving, but we can all start to be less critical and more creative together, especially to each other, i.e. also to the new ministers, to give the opportunity and opportunity to work and create added value for our country. The government must become operational as soon as possible and start with normal work so that the European Union does not become the bankruptcy manager of our country. I am sure that none of us want to do this, so it is essential that we end the skirmish and start concrete measures to push the way out of the crisis. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal to appoint ministers and ministers. However, I wish the Prime Minister and future ministers much success, wisdom, patience and perseverance in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get ready, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Everyone, even the incoming government, has a nice greeting! What can I expect from the new government, and what will be its first task? In some ways, history teaches us this, for history is about learning something from it, or it likes to repeat itself. First, let us look at the legacy accepted by the current government. In a way, it's very similar to the one in 2004. Then you will remember that Robbery LDS and SD, the Transitional Left Government, have taken a decision on increased arms purchases and on the purchase of 8x8 armoured personnel, and have committed itself to the international public, including by signing statements on this. Then the next government had to make this inheritance to the best of its ability to remain credible and therefore to be four years old, until now some things are being carried out, compared with guns. History repeats itself! Because in leaving, the Pahor government signed the disputed agreement, Acto. The act, if it weren't for electronic media, would probably be a very good thing, so some things in it, mildly speaking, questionable, incontrovertible. And the worst part was taken away from the eyes of the public, no one actually knew in the general public, not even in the profession, about it until it was signed. So what's the science? It is very likely that the next government – some headlines in the yellow press today show this: "The new government supports the Act". Yeah, wait! But the last one signed it, people of God! The former is responsible for this, the new one is responsible for the issue of credibility. And it is clear that history again intends to repeat that there will be a holy war against the new government for something that the previous government has actually done under the leadership of Mr Pahor, far behind the people, contrary to its own words about its transparent work. So what is the first thing to expect from the new government is that it will work in a public and transparent manner; that the government will allow people and the profession to express its opinion and will also be able to listen to people. If this is achieved, it will be a drastic, huge difference from what has been done so far, the previous coalitions and governments have already collapsed. What is its basic task is to achieve a new development circle for Slovenia. Even in this period, which has begun objectively with an international financial crisis, will largely challenge Slovenia with its inactivity and its coalition, the economic situation, which is not good, is a huge debt that closes the manoeuvre space for further developmental steps. But even in these circumstances, people have found themselves, entrepreneurs who have found new products, market niches, have successfully embarked on a business trip, and they deserve all the support, including financial support from the country in the part that the European Union allows; not those fallen giants who have just been getting some financial injections from the outgoing government, which in fact are just further flooding around the curve or, if you want, repairing out the banking system, which is all politically screwed up. Entrepreneurs, those who have good products that can hire additional people who can open new quality jobs that are responsible for development deserve your help! Assistance in the form of an appropriate framework of legislation, relevant institutions actually operating in this direction, as well as financial assistance in the part which is admissible in the European Union. So what does that mean? This means that entrepreneurship must become a value and that conditions must be created that the conditions for entrepreneurship in Slovenia will at least be comparable, if not better, to neighbouring Austria. That's even more than it says right now in the coalition contract. This means that there should be a five-year moratorium to pay a profit tax in order to have a well-functioning banking system, in order to have adequate legal protection, effective justice, and adequate financial discipline, and to be able to manage enough courage to break through that real estate balloon, even artificially inflated by speculators and bank portfolios, in which, of course, the price of real estate will be artificially inflated over disproportionately high prices of real estate, their performance, and on this basis, huge awards will be paid to certain people in administrations, supervisory boards in order to accordingly reduce the price of real estate for one undertaking wishing to buy something in Slovenia, at least roughly comparable with Austria. It's not today. Today the price of real estate in Austria is four to five times higher than in neighbouring Austria. It's five times lower in Austria. Buying power and financial discipline are, however, immeasurably greater and also legal security. And this most capable layer of people, which is the engine of development all over the world, flows from Slovenia to Austria. Especially in Gorenjska, we feel this problem very much. It's even a long way from moving young families there now and carrying everything with them, if you want, even our future together. This process of halting and making Slovenia, in favour of entrepreneurship, comparable to neighbouring Austria, is, in my opinion, a key task for the next government. And by voting for a new government, which I believe is capable of doing so, I also accept my share of responsibility today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar, prepare for Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have a government set up by a coalition to come out of the crisis. This coalition successfully passed its first test when it proved that it was capable of cooperating. Cooperation is what it will have to prove in the future. This will be her most important test. That is why I will vote in favour today because I believe that listening will be both for the social partners and for the opposition. I am pleased, however, that this coalition is not ideological and does not intend to open up to those who separate the Slovenian people. I will vote in favour because I think it is necessary to create and then to share. I will vote in favour because I am together with the National Charter for the Development of Entrepreneurship, a healthy economy, responsible public administration and Slovenia without being untouchable. I'm going to vote in favour because I'm in favour of a non-privileged pension. I will also vote in favour because I believe that I want more culture and less bureaucracy. However, I am disappointed to learn that we also have a culture of resentment and hatred in this country. Such a culture, respected colleagues and colleagues, hand in hand, needs something more than the Ministry of Culture. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and never will be. Therefore, in this mandate, the Citizens' List will work particularly towards decentralisation and more balanced development of all Slovenia. And today my voice is not a blank note to the incoming government. Members and Members are part of the National Assembly and the highest representative body of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the Constitution, we vote in our conscience and are not bound to any instructions. When my conscience will not allow me to support the proposals of the new government, I will vote against it. In the hope that the coalition treaty will become a reality and that the government will meet the expectations of the Slovenians and Slovenes, I will support the government today. Finally, future ministers and Madam Minister, I wish you great success, and above all, a strong will in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the President of the Government as well as to colleagues and colleagues! The times ahead are even more difficult than they were three years ago when the economic and financial crisis actually began. Today, the crisis is practically taking root in all times of the daily lives of our citizens and citizens. As if this were not a big enough blow for Slovenia as a small country, and so much more so than others, we also had to face a political crisis. In order to cut short the political power of the previous government, we have received not only a new composition of the national assembly, but a new government today. We probably all agree that we need a strong and very effective government. Such a government will be able to properly evaluate the priorities that are key and most important for a way out of the severe economic crisis. That's why we're gonna need a compatible and credible ministerial team. The Group of Members I belong to participated in all presentations by candidates and candidates. On the basis of the hearings, I assess that the proposed team of ministers and ministers fulfils the above-mentioned characteristics. I expect that the Prime Minister's team, headed by the Prime Minister, will be able to have open dialogue and networking with each other, as well as with the social partners and the opposition, and especially with respect to all the citizens and citizens we owe them to bring this country out of a difficult situation. Let me tell you that the Group of Members will fully support the solutions required by the Coalition Agreement. It is not to be expected to support solutions and proposals that would be the principles of constitutional law and constitutional order in our country, and in such cases, when there are a number of things that do not concern our party's coalition agreement and programme. We will do our utmost to do so. We want our party to be an equal party to all the other coalition partners. I stress this mainly because the previous government did not. Of course, we will advocate for the strengthening of the social state. Here I am thinking of pensioners, minimum wage workers and young people who have completed their schooling and who want to work do not get a suitable job, nor do those unemployed who want to work. I wish the new government a successful job and a rapid rise in difficult economic situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished Minister and Ministers! In 20 years of independent Slovenia we will receive the 10th Slovenian government today. Two months and a bad week after the real early elections. After the initial complications of the deficient skills of political dialogue, we have a government relatively fast, given the situation in the country at the last moment. A competent team with experience, with a good measure of engineering knowledge, gives hope. After the presentation of the candidates for the ministers, I am calm and satisfied. They gave the word to citizens and citizens to minister with reason and with their heart. The same for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, without whispering European surviving teachings and instructions of the botts of the Slovenian transition, which unfortunately does not show signs of its end. The real state of the spirit in Slovenia, burdened by the brakes of transition, does not allow for complete freedom in the development and release of intellectual entrepreneurial and other potentials, which are above average in Slovenia. How much longer? In recent times, we have seen more and more of these young potentials from Slovenia abroad. I expect and believe that the incoming government will be able to create an environment in which there will be better opportunities for everyone who wants to develop their potentials and ambitions to the maximum of their own satisfaction and for the benefit of all. We expect an environment for the development of a social market economy. An environment in which we will finally understand the axiom of "economics we are human". An environment in which we will understand that property is decided by the owner. That it is the state or its institution that decides on state property, not the centres of power from the background. Otherwise, the government, which will only swear today, is already celebrating one record after the attacks in the last days. Untrustworthyness of power is certainly the basis of democratic principles, but the amount of verbal salves fired at the same time is so great that it is worth considering. But this thought, ladies and gentlemen, strengthens us even more in the coalition. I am sorry that the so-called masters of Slovenian words in recent days have not followed the call of one of Slovenia's greatest poets, patriots and upright man, Tonet Pavček, who invites in words, "there is a need for many simple words, such as bread, love, kindness". The so-called modern masters of Slovenian words, which, of course, do not challenge artistic creation, have used words from the bottom of the Slovenian vocabulary, which are not simple words such as bread, love, kindness. Let him know who can. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This meeting of the National Assembly today is accompanied by Slovenia as well as Europe. I am sure that Slovenia will be offered a deadline for European leaders, European friendly countries, which, of course, requires effective anti-crisis measures, measures with reason and heart from Slovenia first. When I shake hands with the new Slovenian ministerial team with a congratulations for courage and with my best wishes, I already have my first wish. This is that the government continues with good practice of visits on the ground. This was a well-adopted practice within the 2004-2008 mandate. If one of the first visits will be in the least developed Pomurje, I will also be grateful and grateful to Pomurci. Good luck with the 10th Slovenian government! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get ready, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Ivan Janša! The object of the Slovenian Press Agency or the websites of the National Assembly is rarely captured by the Group of Social Democrats, so it is right that I speak and it is right that the National Assembly is a place of speech, that voters and voters have the opportunity to judge whether the words reveal or conceal and, or from words, act. Whether someone listens to us or not, we must let those who want to hear hear have this opportunity. So much for deciding whether we're talking or not. If I look at the behaviour of the Social Democrats, then I find that the Social Democrats have not taken any steps so far to prevent the creation of a new Slovenian government. From the beginning, we have offered both human resources solutions and other cooperation so that the government can be formed. And now we're about to confirm it today. The Coalition has 52 votes, no reason to speak to my government but to say that there are substantial differences in the coalition's programme to form the government and between the programme and the ideas on what is acceptable to Slovenian society in the view of the Social Democrats. Reducing differences between people is certainly one of the values that we are following from the Social Democrats. The reflection on this through the coalition contract and the performances, both presentations and responses, tells me that there is no compatibility between the new government's programme and what we expect. If you look only at what I know well – the school’s field, profit logic enters our school system through an open door, just as the coalition contract says I listened to the speech and it does not seem that this profit logic would diminish. Just proof: textbooks every year, license for electronic textbooks. This will mean that someone will earn well, and this has also been said that entrepreneurship must be encouraged, that the development of entrepreneurship must be supported. At the same time, it is important to ask who will settle this. Will the State settle the licence from public funds or will it be at the expense of the parents? Only to the extent that there may be a difference between the introductory principles on savings and what is enshrined in the coalition contract. I could have found such things in more places. But let me warn you of only one promise of saving. The reorganisation of a government with a smaller number of ministers is expected to help save. We have passed the Government Act, which says that by April 1st, some departments will be relocated, depending on where they are classified under the new government law. At the presentations, we did not get any concrete answers as to how this will affect the number of State secretaries, how it will be with senior state officials who are now carrying out individual substantive tasks in individual departments. Nor does it appear that we would have any clear idea of how this will eventually be done. For instance, let me just say one thing. It is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and the Government Act states that economic diplomacy is to move to the Ministry of the Economy. In the presentation, we were assured that such a solution was inappropriate and that the candidate for a minister agreed with the opposition Members and Members, as well as others, that such a placement of economic diplomacy was inappropriate. Similarly, development and humanitarian assistance services. I'm just saying a little bit. It was promised, this was what the mandate holder then promised to consider the professional arguments that the prosecution would not be included in the internal ministry. I have listened specifically today and have not said a word about what the Prime Minister is thinking about these things and these proposals. There's not much time. The first regular meeting of the National Assembly is scheduled for Wednesday April; the Government Act in previous provisions speaks of certain things happening by April 1st. Now I don't know who it is who's stalling and wasting time. One more time. I will not support the government, have sufficient support in the coalition and accept the responsibility it takes. My opening remarks indicate what I shall do as a Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u84	Dear President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we decide on the main content, if I express myself differently in terms of the composition of the new government, this is about the candidates for ministers. And I ask myself, who's the good minister? If I looked back at all the government mandates so far, most of the answers would be something like this. Those who have managed to ensure an adequate level of resources from the budget, or those who have managed to do the most in their portfolio, or those who have carried out the most projects, are, of course, different from the source. But if I look ahead, the answers will be completely different. Why? The role of the Minister today, in the state in which he is, differs significantly from that of the past. Each of the ministers today is part of the government's rescue team, which saves the state of Slovenia from the state it is in. If I express myself economically, each minister is the coerced manager of his department in order to improve the economic situation of our country. This means extremely difficult work. I would also like to congratulate all candidates for ministers, especially on their courage, on their willingness to take on this ungrateful role in this mandate. But I believe and trust in their knowledge, their expertise and, above all, their work, which will be for the good of all Slovenes and Slovenes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Well, welcome to my side for the first time here today. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. First greeting to the Vice-President and, of course, to the President of the Government and to colleagues and colleagues! It is true that today is an important and special day for Slovenia, as we will get the 10th Slovenian government. This is certainly good for Slovenia to show that the government has full powers and that we will in some way appease the financial markets that have been breaking our economic picture for the past few months with credit ratings. However, to break this economic picture, we are all in charge of this hall. Of course, if I said earlier that this is good for Slovenia, I must say that this is bad for me because we get the right-centre government, the government that Slovenia and Slovenians didn't want. That is why this government will not receive my support. There's more than one reason. For three years, I have heard how the previous government has done everything wrong, how it has wronged its decision to reform, and it will be very interesting to hear and read the Magnography of the prime ministers in this government, how they will now undoubtedly change their rhetoric. The next thing I'm afraid is the experience with the government in 2004-2008, which, when the financial situation was completely different, sold out Slovenia. Not to make things better, but to have their friends come to an enormous amount of property. Thank God that there has been a crisis, that this property has somehow been taken away. I hope this same government will not now help them recover this property. I've listened to three interrogations, and I have to say, given the characteristics of individual ministers, that they're totally "feast" guys. But the paper, the thinking, the analysis they gave at these hearings, everything nice and right, but I doubt that mathematics will come out. When forecasting changes in the income scale, social cap, development allowances, 40% of investment incentives, gradual reduction of corporate income tax, flat rates, ladies and gentlemen, that is a lot of millions, and 800 of them must be saved! I don't know if this calculation is gonna work. But if the Social Democrats and I personally see that mathematics is going and that they will not be the weakest in the country because of the last bread, then such substantive matters will also have our support. However, I would like to remind some Members, particularly Mr Grimes, that it will be necessary to slowly replace the chip, reset and start thinking as a member of the position, not the opposition. And one more thing. And to Mr. Horvath, who once again sang and said, "Let him understand who is more!" I will read the thinking of the great right-wing supporter – it is Mr. Štuhec, and here I am afraid to say: "As our children throw bread into dumpsters, they stink at school lunches, they walk through school premises in summer, they throw themselves on the floor in front of exhibitions and shops to blackmail toys and others, while everyone constantly plugs in their cell phones and they are for every figurine in connection with protective parents or friends as long as they have money for cigarettes and for alcoholic beverages, so long as it is for me to talk about the serious crisis is pure hypocrisy." If the ideologists of the right speak like that in these terrible times, then we're in bad shape. I will not support the governments of the SDS, Mr Virant, Mr Erjavac and the gentlemen of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u87	Mr. Janez Fishich, your word. Let's get ready, please, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Today is again a great day for Slovenian politics, for us, Members and Members, because we are getting a new, 10th Slovenian government. Today we will confirm the candidate for the Minister and the candidates for ministers, people who are willing to face difficulties in these difficult times to somehow get us out of the crisis that we have fallen into together with Europe. When we talk about work and should eat as much as we work, we are very different people in Slovenia. To those who are sick or otherwise unable to work, I apologize. On the other hand, we have many who work from dawn to night because they realize that she has not eaten without work. And on the other hand, we have many, many of those who are always looking for soft pears from the pear can. Today we have come to the point that you too will have to bite into those hard ones if we want to have a full container again and that those who deserve it will be able to eat from this soft pear. I wanted to say this because I want to make it clear that we will all have to start respecting what we have written down in our legislation, that we will all have to start doing reforms and act on our own, and only then can we ask our government to bring this country together from the crisis. I want all the candidates for ministers to have a lot of sense and wisdom in running the government, and I want them all to succeed together on this path. God help us!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Please, if Mr Matevž Frangež is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u90	Honourable President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Respected Citizens and Citizens of Slovenia! Today, I sat with my fellow Member on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and he felt that some people were talking too much, and he whispered to me, "You know, we can 'load' as much as we want, only what results and what we will do will be valid." And that's the key now. I believe that today's period of great words is ending. In the future, we will all be presented before the decisive fact of what the results will be. I want good results for all ministers and good cooperation and support for us. It will be crucial how we assess our work, as well as the work of ministers, and how others will assess it. I don't think we're going to make our own grades. In assessing how successful we will be, I would suggest the following as one of the possible criteria. When Slovenia entered the European Union, it was one of the most successful new members of the European Union. For a while she was one of the most successful. Then we entered the monetary union and were also very successful for quite some time. And then things started to break a little bit. In the last year, two of us lost 20 cities on the competitiveness scale. As a key criterion, I therefore propose that we set ourselves the goal of getting at least 20 of these cities back so that we can go slowly on the competitiveness scale higher and higher. This is the key to success, for the economy is an engine that drives all spheres: culture, education, sport, and our personal well-being. If we do not compete in global markets, we will not create enough, we will not create prosperity and we will be in the crisis forever, as we are today. Once again, for me personally and for us, the key will be how competitive we are in global markets. And in the moment we get these twenty places back and start climbing even higher, we'll be on our way to success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u91	Mr Matevž Frangež, let Mrs Iva Dimic prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u92	Respected and respected! I don't support this government. I would like to say this today in this national assembly with words as well as with a vote. I understand this as one of the main manifestations of its opposition posture. Of course, there are several types of opposition. In the past mandate, we have been faced with an angry, robust, destructive power of the opposition, and I know that the Social Democrats will be a different opposition that we will know to separate what is a step and effort for the common good, which is only a prestigious political struggle whose only goal is to win power. This is not the issue; it is what we will be able to do in this country to bring about the fate of changing bad promises in this country as soon as possible. And despite the fact that I deny my support to this government, I sincerely wish it to be successful in its work, because it is important for me to solve the problems to move Slovenia, not the question of who is the savior. At least the Hearings of the Ministers' Candidates, those in whom I participated or listened to them, have shown that the candidates and candidates have much political wisdom, have renounced the rough political accounting, the responsibility for the situation. They tried to be connected to things that unite, and they were kept from things that they thought might separate us from each other. I think this is a good attitude of the Prime Minister and also of the Minister's candidates. I fear, however, that today's performances will not be a predominant concept for some of the electorate in the largest government party. I advise the Prime Minister, after his determination and firm deadline, that he tries to curb his parliamentary cavalry, that the atmosphere in the National Assembly will contribute to constructive cooperation. I personally welcome such or different forms of partnership, because I think that Slovenia has a number of challenges that must unite us and that require deeper cooperation. Of course, I do not pretend that there are a number of political differences between us. I sign many of the pledges in your coalition covenant and I wish you had a happy hand with them. At the same time, it is clearly possible to identify fields where agreement will not be possible because two world-viewed concepts are facing each other. And don't pretend that this coalition won't face ideological issues. Privatisation of state property, intervention in social security systems and, last but not least, re-politicisation of the area of capital investment management, are sites where two ideologies will continue to be faced in this National Assembly. One that says that the country must be self-limited is given adequate autonomy but also responsibility, and another that may think differently, which by liberalisation and privatisation seeks to achieve its economic and other political effects. The transition isn't over, it's a real coalition deal. That's a dangerous thought. Personally, I think it's one of the more dangerous coalition commitments. Let us accept the fact that the transition is over, because this is the only way to get in the way of normalising our society, which will prevent further radical divisions in our community and allow some of the processes that marked this transition to end. This will be the path that will prevent emergency situations and emergency measures, a path that will prevent logic from devoting resources to the objective. The new government wants a lot of success. I don't want to be overly dogmatic, I want to give her a chance to look at the expected effects in controversial measures and find the best solutions together. In doing so, we often have a very short memory and forget why we decided to withdraw from the economy, why we decided to limit public spending and so on. Finally, allow me to thank the government so far for the contribution that will certainly be recorded as controversial in Slovenian history. Personally, I am convinced that this power was good intentions, which tried to do its best to keep Slovenia as an island of stability in the world, which will obviously remain unpredictable for the long term, so that the best among us can be supported in order to raise the whole community. I thank this government, everyone who has participated in this contribution, very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I am informing you that there has been a technical error and therefore, my colleague, Richard Branisel, I am informing you that Gregor Virant's National List is still available for 20 minutes and will have a chance to discuss it when it is due. I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, to prepare Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We will decide about the government, about the government team that will lead Slovenia in the next four years. In their presentations on the parental committees, the candidates presented the work programme and received support not only from coalition parties, but also from opposition parties to a large extent. It is commendable that the opposition Members have also shown their constructive approach and have also greatly supported good solutions, regardless of the fact that ministerial candidates do not come from their own species. I also assess the programme baselines presented for the candidates themselves for an adequate and mainly targeted solution to the current crisis. I myself have listened to the hearing of five candidates for ministers, and at their presentations, everyone has shown a good knowledge of the area, highlighted the issue and presented the programming frameworks for further work and presented measures to address the current situation, with a strong focus on the consistent implementation of the legislation. Under the Coalition Treaty, the powers of officials and holders of public powers will be increased while increasing their responsibility for the legality and efficiency of the work of the authorities. It is in this area that much will have to be done to restore citizens' confidence in institutions and the rule of law. The ministerial team will start its work in difficult situations that require thoughtful action against crisis. The work will certainly not be easy, but I trust the ministerial team presented, and I wish her good luck, so I will also vote for the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u95	Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u96	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! After eight months and a few days, political agony ends in this country. After eight months and a few days in this country, it ends up, so to speak, the entire structure of the social subsystem, which depends on the functioning of the government. Since the fall of the three referendums on 5 June, the time has come to halt the backlog and the economic, political, economic and any crisis has stopped. Everything that's happened in these eight months, and how our ratings dropped, it's terrible. If we had 200 million, 300 million interest in the balance sheet a year ago, today we have close to 800, 900 million euros just to pay off interest. Why this was necessary and why we had to go through this calvary, there is, in fact, no one in this country, except perhaps some in the outgoing government. We had to hold our positions to the end, until the last minute, as far as we could. This has also been done by all other actors who, after the elections, draw up a timetable for the new government. Now we're where we are, and how we're gonna have to roll up our sleeves and drive the cart forward. Otherwise, I'm afraid there's something missing, so it won't be possible to make it up to you. It would be very interesting today to listen to the outgoing Prime Minister if he walked through the government's programme three years ago, what and how much of this has been realized. I only remember one segment, this is the use of European funds. What everything and how much wisdom has been shed in the National Assembly, what will be done to make this use as good as possible, so that we can move forward so that we can spend everything. Data, tables, numbers are reality. You're leaving with this, and you're taking responsibility. What responsibility?Oh, my God! That you lost in the elections and now you're in the opposition. I think it's too little responsibility. The problem is that investments stopped, hundreds of Slovenian companies went bankrupt, thousands of people lost their jobs, and thousands of people lost their work permits and had to go back to where they came from. So far, it has been possible to use 2.6 billion European funds, only 1.3 billion have been used. And here is actually the biggest problem I think is how to make full use of 4.2 billion by the end of 2013. Yes, all contracts must be signed. The time of arrival of money from Brussels to our treasury can be extended by two more years, so until 2015, but it will not be if they are not 30. In 2014, the contracts signed, according to the experience we have from 2004-2006, are at least 30% higher than the availability of funds. The urgent signature of such a percentage of contracts is because everything in the process is not then realized or implemented or not in accordance with the applicable legislation. I am pleased to note that in these programme starting points arising from the coalition contract, it is stated that one of the key arrangements in revitalising economic activity will also be a key non-discipline of payments. Yesterday, when I went to Ljubljana, I stopped at a point where small entrepreneurs told me that one of the companies that owned the country had sent them a letter two days ago that their payment hands were changing from 90 to 120 days. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government, these are the ones that will have to be put on their toes. I'll tell you a quick calculation that we did with these entrepreneurs yesterday just like that over our thumb in a few minutes. Twenty years ago, the director's salary in the same company was about three times the average Slovenian salary. The average Slovenian salary was the salary of the locksmith, today the locksmith has about 70% of the average Slovenian salary. This means 300 euros less. In 20 years, this company has collected €72 000 for this locksmith’s work. This same director, who was also 20 years old and who is still today, then had a threefold salary of a locksmith — that is, an average one — today has at least ten times the average salary. Colleagues and colleagues, calculate how much more this director has earned in 20 years without raising 72 000 euros for the worker. A little over a million euros. These are directors of companies that are monopolies that are majority-owned and then consider themselves successful, capable. True, they were successful, but unfortunately for their pockets. Prime Minister and Ministers, you're gonna have to do something, you're gonna have to work hard to give back the locksmith's dignity in the form of a salary, and you're gonna take that corrupt director's stolen property into a labor account. This will be one of the elements of the composite package of the rest of the legislation, which will make it clear that belts will need to be tightened. I believe that people, citizens and citizens will be ready, but they will have to show that, as is, thank God, it is written here, everything with the aim of returning optimism to the Slovenian economy and among people as soon as possible, to start creating new jobs in the economy, to increase general prosperity, and what is most important now that Slovenia becomes a just country. Another part states that this country will act on the legal basis, by law and, of course, for all the same. Personally, I have said this several times that although Slovenia has had a disastrously bad government for the last three years, which has indebted the country in three years as much as it did in those 16, 17 years, it has built a highway programme so that the country would be significantly better off if it had regions, regionalisation, because the control of resources is also at the municipal level and would be significantly better. I am pleased that we will be in favour of prosperity, as stated here, that the decentralisation of the country is particularly important by promoting coherent regional development. If we look today at the backlog of the most backward regions such as Pomurje, Podravje, Posavska region, Koroška region for the average or Central Slovenia region, I hope that this time the opposition will be able to listen to the coalition's proposal if it puts legislation on regionalisation back on the table. Six laws have been drawn up, as have been the case for three votes in 2008, and this has had a catastrophic impact on this backlog, halted the possibility of development, not just to start reducing the differences. I am confident that the government coalition's forecast, which clearly stated that tax evasion will no longer be tax confidentiality, that such things will also lead to a lot of unfair, unfair, fraudulent acts and that this will also accelerate further development in this country and a fair continuation of work. You know, I'd like to wait for a moment when any company, whatever it is already owned, will also do something like an Australian entrepreneur who sold one of his companies a few weeks ago and, among other things, distributed that part of the purchase among the workers, of course, according to the number of years they worked in this company. I'm afraid it's the other way around. Those who are the longest employees of an individual company end up the most "souring" and benefit individuals. Bringing Slovenia out of the crisis will, of course, be difficult work, and I believe that with all these measures, we will succeed. It will be important, however, to restore the trust of citizens and citizens and to restore the normal functioning of society and of all subsystems. I will be happy to support the government that is being proposed today, and I will also be happy to stand by it all the time, in preparing solutions that will lead in two directions, economic growth, economic growth and prosperity for all citizens and citizens, and, secondly, the normalisation of the whole society and all subsystems.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u97	The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Please, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u98	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues, I won't be as long as you, don't be afraid. Look, a lot of respectable people at this point are warning us that the food crisis is coming. This crisis is likely to be much more sensitive than it is currently a financial-economic crisis. Why is that important? Because we are the first signs that the financial and economic crisis is coming in 2007 and 2008 we have completely overlooked – not only in Slovenia in Europe – and that is why it is harder for us than it would have been for us to react properly. As we now know that there is a food crisis, it is only a matter of years, at least some of the main answers to how to act effectively are already known. We are talking about the need to protect natural resources that are limited, that is, drinking water, air and agricultural land, that we need new technologies in agriculture, food production and more, and that we need to prevent what is currently happening, that a third of the food we produce does not end with us — people, but ends up in dumpsters. This is why it is the right direction that a large ministry has been created in Slovenia, which has the main task of protecting natural resources, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and I personally and also support the Group of Members. We know that there is a certain fear in the professional public and in the official public that the agricultural resource will be stronger than the environment. I believe that this will not be the case, but the new government will confirm by its every action and confirm each of its actions that both sectors are balanced and act in a sustainable manner. That's why I believe these fears of the profession are unjustifiable. Part of the office is also scared and their voice needs to be heard. However, it should also be borne in mind that the time when we could also observe the laziness of the official office, when we could observe the Cabinet's conduct rather than the conduct on the ground, and when officials were making up laws and other legal acts that they themselves did not know how to carry out, that time must end. Since this was exactly the vision of the candidate for the Minister of Agriculture and Environment, Mr Franzi Bogovic, I support him and believe that he is also supported by the entire parliamentary group. If we had the opportunity to vote on individual candidates, Mr Franz Bogovic would have received more votes than the new government that will be elected today. I must also say that Mr Srečko Meho, with whom we were on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space because he convinced us, also supported Mr Cernač. We supported it because we have noticed that it is thinking about interventionism in infrastructure, which is important, because only by saving the country can we not save, but also by investing. He also convinced himself that he had begun to distinguish between efficiency, which meant quick and good decision-making, but did not necessarily mean less protection of natural resources. This gentleman has also received our vote, but because the government will come before us "in the package", he cannot get a vote as a government as a whole. Among other things, we have heard things that we absolutely do not support. Such an example is neoliberalism, which would like to sell our state property, which is wrong. We have a lot of these cases nearby if we look at Eastern Europe. Before you decide to sell Slovenia, at least check these things in practice. Secondly, what I do not agree with is the reduction of the social state. Social differences are already too great in both Slovenia and the European Union. The people who work, the pensioners who worked, are not to blame for the large financial holes made by the financial institutions, and it is not right that you intend to save Slovenia on their shoulders. Save her in such a way that those who cause such a situation will be punished! In the end, there's something else I'd like to say. I am pleased that most of the debates today have been focused on the future. The future can be talked about by those who know something, and this national assembly impressed me. There have also been some discussions on the past. One was how cohesion funds are used. If we knew the numbers, we would probably notice that last year we were able to use more than 800 million cohesion funds, this year, if you don't make any big mistakes, we're going to make a billion and then we're going to start at 300 million before last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u99	Mr. Mirko Brulc. Please prepare the mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I do not agree with my colleague, because today many experts in the position have assessed how it was, how it would be, how it would be and how it would be. We will listen to this for three, four years, because colleagues Grims, Pukšič and others are just so that they can drive these things like this, and the position will also urgently need this – a constant inventory of how bad it was to justify their own problems and mistakes. Well, I was fortunate enough to have been pleasantly surprised by the presentation of the candidate for justice and public administration, because all the questions I have prepared have already been answered literally in the introduction, so I am evaluating him as a good minister. And I also asked myself which coalition he was actually preparing the answers for, whether for the one who's leaving or for the one who's coming. But I'd like to draw your attention to a few facts. I am concerned about the announced redefinition of bureaucratic problems, the merger of ministries and so on. Such saving can sometimes bring only additional costs or, by removing one bureaucratic obstacle, cause two new ones. This is where you need to be careful. On the Committee, no one touched on the programme to establish a database to support human resources management – databases on all co-workers and co-workers in public administration, on public competences, including job failure. We all know what an information officer's response is to this mega base, so I'm interested in what competences will be entered into this database. There was no talk of this at the presentation. There was relatively little or almost no time devoted to local self-government as well. Even in the coalition contract, local self-government is mentioned only in a few sentences. I think it's an important branch of power, I would say, in our country, and it also needs to be given more attention. In my dialogue with the social partners, I wish the future minister great happiness, and also patience, I think it is, and I can say that the Social Democrats will really support all the programmes needed to build a more efficient judiciary, people-friendly administration and build an excellent state office. We Social Democrats intend to transfer the State Prosecutor's Office under the authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, even when this was proposed in the previous team of cooperation of the future imaginary coalition. I wonder where you're taking coalition partners of this kind after what times of our past history. This is not the case today, so I call on the candidate, as he has promised, to prepare a new law on the government as soon as possible and to put it into Parliament as a matter of urgency, and I am giving him 46 votes and more. However, it is only necessary to wait for an assessment of the government's work in leaving. I think it's time to get the right grade. At that time, all those who have destroyed this government for three years will realize how much good she has done. Let's stay away from the constant evaluation of how it was, and let's see what it's like. I wish this government much success, because this will help me and my family and my friends to live better, but of course you will choose coalition partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u101	Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Please, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u102	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. President of the Government, colleagues, colleagues! The content of the coalition agreement gives some hope and optimism that the Slovenian economy will once again become competitive, the coalition contract gives hope and optimism to create new jobs. The measures envisaged by the Coalition Treaty will certainly provide a favourable and environmentally friendly environment for the economy. It should be stressed that only a competitive and successful economy ensures a fair social policy and the creation of new jobs. Faster support will be needed to attract foreign direct investment, more efficient governance of state assets will be needed, rapid and effective recovery of the banking system will be needed. I am convinced that the 10th Slovenian government will be able to listen to the economy, what policy support it needs to take to tackle businesses in crisis, but not at the expense of creditors. The first step and objectives of the 10th Slovenian government are to stop the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the standard of living of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The second part is that Slovenia will grow again faster than the average of the European Union. The Prime Minister and his team, with their experiences, references and personal characteristics, must ensure that the content of the coalition agreement is also implemented and implemented. That's why I'm going to confirm this government team today. I therefore wish the new 10th Slovenian government happy and successful on the way to a better Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u103	Mr. Just Bevk. Please get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As I said at the time of the appointment of Prime Minister Janez Janša 14 days ago, it is clear today that the mistrust of the Borut Pahor government brought more harm to the country last September. We had to go to early elections, the country stood still, and for six months we have been waiting for a government with full powers. However, the first substantive meeting of the National Assembly was not scheduled for April. We have received a Prime Minister who was not a winner in the national elections and whose President of the State of the Contest is fully legitimate. During this time we have already twice experienced a reduction in Slovenia's credit rating, and money becomes more expensive for both the country and, in particular, the citizens. At the outset, the new finance minister predicts that only with the 2012 budget rebalancing will we have to save €800 million. The incoming government would in many ways facilitate its work if the majority of the previous opposition did not so consistently oppose the reform policy of the Pahor government. The future Minister of Labour also admitted at the hearing that he was sorry for the fall of pension reform. It is precisely because of the consistent collapse of the reform policy of the previous government that this time the measures will be much more painful. These measures were announced today by Prime Minister Janez Janša. I guess we haven't been completely satisfied with any government so far. This, of course, first appears when the mandate holder presents his ministerial team, his staff offer. This also applies to candidates for a minister and ministers whom we will decide on today, although some of the presentations on the committees have been quite solid. In the coalition agreement, which we have initialled, we have set ourselves a fundamental objective of creating the conditions for accelerated economic, innovative and entrepreneurial activity, where new investments would achieve stable economic growth by the end of the mandate to reduce the gap between the development of Slovenia and the European Union. Among the key infrastructure investments, I am talking about projects for Primorsko, and we specifically mentioned the third dock of Luke Koper, the second rail track and the fourth transport development axis. Unfortunately, in the coalition contract of the parties that will actually form a new government, these projects are not named after each other, although the SDS, National Gazette, DeSUS, SLS and NSI are significantly larger. What is actually hiding in a very general coalition contract, we will only see. The first opportunity we had with our questions was already at the presentations of individual ministerial candidates. However, a much clearer picture will be shown when the new government proposes a 2012 budget rebalancing with appropriate development plans. In those days, I participated in the presentations by Ludmila Novak, Dr. Žiga Turka, Aleš Hojs and Karl Erjavac. I also closely monitored the other presentations through the media. The main comments are directed at the subordination of the State Prosecutor's Office, the distribution of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the relocation of economic diplomacy and the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. It seems particularly incomprehensible to me that the association of the cultural sector, although three parties had different views about it, and the National List and DeSUS even initialled a contract whereby we had independent ministries of culture and Slovenia around the world, which is what Nova Slovenije, of course, also wanted. Yesterday, the candidate for Foreign Minister highlighted very good relations with neighbouring countries. This is certainly the result of the outgoing government, which has regulated more than 20 years old issues of relations with Croatia and has also contributed to the historic compromise in the creation of bilingual tables in Koroška. Until 2009, we had incidents in the Gulf of Piran. In 2004, our politicians broke up at the state border. Eight years ago, the President of the Austrian Parliament claimed that the discussion on the Slovenian National Minority could not be conducted on the legal basis of the Austrian State Treaty, because it was not a treaty between the countries, which is, of course, contrary to historical facts and international law. Even in 2006, the Korean country chief ransacks on Slovenian marginal inscriptions, and today the situation is completely different. I just wanted to point out that the legacy left by the outgoing government is not as bad as some would like to present it. It would be even better if the National Assembly gave her the opportunity to carry out her term of office in September. Even though I will not support the government today, I wish it a success in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u105	Mr Happy Meh, who will also be the last discusser. Then he'll have the word of Prime Minister Ivan. [[John]] Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u106	Dear Members and Members, Mr President, a kind greeting! I'll try to say some thoughts. Maybe this first. If Mr Pukšič says that they have made a good solution in Australia, then I ask him why he has not supported the law on profit participation so that we can specifically do something for our workers and workers who have always tried to live fair and good. Someone said today that the electorate and the electorate decided that it would be such a coalition. That one was wrong. I'm sure you don't. Voters and voters gave us votes, customers and people. But you have decided that the coalition will be such, which is, of course, legitimate and legal, but not to say that it is the choice of the electorate and the electorate. They gave each other a relative victory and imagined that this story would run differently. But that's the way it is. The special question is that today we have talked a lot about the past, about what happened, about what no one has done, about how nothing has been done for eight months. But we have not talked enough about what it would be like to do today, tomorrow, and what we need to do and where we need to coordinate for future projects. That is why it would be right to talk about this, and that is why we, at hearings or discussions with candidates for ministers, talked about projects and received very positive answers. If we were to vote on individual ministers here today, the majority would also get very much our votes. Not all of them, I assure you. Above all, when we speak here in Parliament and accuse someone, we say that someone is guilty of something, of course, we have all the right to do so. However, it is necessary or right to argue. The talk was also about the only guarantee that the government will work well are members of the government, co-workers in ministries who work on average and the committee and parliament here. Of course, the guarantee is also that the opposition currently held will be significantly different from the opposition that has been in the past years. So many referendums, so many protests as there were, I don't believe it's possible to produce, and I'm sure you won't have them, except when it's really necessary. I cannot support the government of Mr Janez Janša for a number of reasons. The first is that the will of the electorate and the electorate has not been respected. Second, it's not the Ministry of Culture. That the prosecution is where I don't think they should be. And I fear that, not because of the transfer of individual parts of the current ministries, a different organisation to the new mega ministry, that this may be wrong. It can be, but it'll be a priority. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a priority to redistribute and reorganise ministries, the priorities are new projects, there are new products, it is what the candidates for ministers have said that they will do something new and quickly to get away from what you said. I'm sure that's the right thing to do, and you'll have our support. However, in the opening statement or address of Mr Janez Janša, I was struck by a few things that I would specifically ask if you could say specifically, Mr Janša, how you imagined it. This is a comparison between 2008 and today. What are you gonna do today? Then let them be rich and prosperous in Slovenia. Sorry, there are too many rich and too poor in Slovenia. It is necessary to do so and those who are poor cannot participate in what we talked about here today. No one should be poor. And when you were talking about solidarity, about social assistance, about unjustifiable solidarity and social assistance, maybe I misunderstood you, then everyone who receives social assistance, is his human dignity from below every level, and this person would rather have a job instead of social assistance, and maybe even a share in a profit with which he could live well and children would need nothing more than simply doing what children don't do. For the reasons I've listed, your government or your government will not support this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u107	Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u108	Thanks again for saying that. I will try to answer some questions, although at the very beginning there is a question about the meaning of this answer or controversy if someone says, "I ask this and that, but I say in advance that I will not support this government." So I'm doing something that I won't convince anyone because he's already made up his mind. But because this meeting is also accompanied by the public, but a few answers to some of the key dilemmas that have been raised. It is obvious that this government has presented some neoliberal concept of governance. Those who make these statements must say that they do not even know what neoliberalism is, and it would be good to learn about some basic concepts that are sometimes used with great ease. It is true, however, that this programme, which we have presented today and for which this team, which we have proposed, is not the same as the Social Democrats programme in the last three years. I'll say, thank God he's not the same, because if he were the same, then it would mean that we're going to drive the country in the same direction as it's been going in the last three years. And we've seen the results. The government that lost its confidant in September last year was then not overthrown by the opposition. The opposition to that government never provided the majority, the coalition itself had the majority, and the government was demolished from within, the coalition collapsed. You argued with each other, so there were early elections. It's not the opposition's fault, and I'm surprised it's forgotten so quickly. And also these moral winners or losers of the last election, I don't think it's very appropriate for a party who had 28 seats to talk about, and now they're only 10. Some self - criticism must also be borne in the use of such big words. But now to this main observation, you're saying that this program that we've presented is neoliberal. As far as liberalism is concerned, it is not enough in Slovenia. There's too many transition covers and all that makes us feel the way we are. The Slovenian Constitution makes it very clear that we are a country, that we are the regulation of the socio-market economy. This is what it says, by the way, in the programmes of most of the parties that are in this Parliament, and this is also found in the programmes of most of the European parties, the serious European parties represented in the European Parliament. So this is a Slovenian concept and this is also a European concept. There are some minor differences, but the socio-market economy is at this moment and in the early 21st century a European development and social model. And this model is impossible if we use theoretically pure terms to divide it into social-democratic and neoliberal terms. It's not like that. It's too similar now in these different concepts. No modern European country can be built without a decent social policy, where solidarity helps those who need help. Not to those who claim to have the right to live on a foreign account. These are two important differences. The difference between these two positions is night and day. One thing is, if you're solidarity with someone and you're helping them, it's one thing, if they've spent years and years paying social transfers and filling the state budget, then they're unemployed and they're getting social assistance. This is not charity, he created this wealth, from which now something gets back when help is needed. And the other thing is, if someone could work, they don't want it and they prefer it on social transfers. These are very big differences. As long as this is clouded by the upheaval we have heard today, we will be far from stimulating people to do more and better to create more. As long as the differences between social support and minimum wage are as minimal as in Slovenia, there will also be no real motivation for work and employment when there is opportunity. I think there is nothing wrong with taking Slovenia as a society of rich people. I was very embarrassed to hear that this was wrong. Then what is the goal? That Slovenia is a society of poor people? I don't think that's our goal. Our aim is to make the people of this country as rich as possible and to reach, on average, Slovenia, as far as the personal standard of individuals is concerned, at least some European averages and, on this basis, given that public finances are being filled by citizens, there is also a strong public sector that ensures equal access to this service and prevents discrimination that is established if individuals weigh only according to the weight of their own success or wealth. This has nothing to do with social differences. It's known, it's a stronger middle class, it's less social differences. The way to overcome social differences, the way to swear this gap between the poor and a handful of rich is to strengthen the middle class, which is usually the most creative. We eliminate poverty by turning those on the social side into the middle class. It is therefore necessary to enable them to work, to take advantage of their creative potentials. This is probably the key conceptual breakthrough or the difference between the concept of social democracy colleagues, which comes from a second century, where there was a level playing field in poverty and we had a country that owned everything and was the richest, and on the other hand there were 90% of poor individuals. I can honestly say that this is not the goal of this government and this coalition. If there are differences here, we'll already know how to defend them. I would also like to respond to an observation that now appears persistently but is unrealistic. I think that in this Chamber we are the presidents of all the parliamentary parties sitting in Villa Podróžnik, where we discussed some of the measures that need to be taken and agreed to support some of the laws proposed by the government that has been in the process of doing business. There are some who have been openly told that some laws are an emergency procedure, while others are not necessary because they need to be finalized. This was also my public statement right after that meeting, and I made that clear at that meeting. I've also said the reason I'm going to repeat it again today. In the Public Finance Act, which we rejected the last time, the government proposed to cut public debt in gross domestic product to 48%. At the same meeting, however, experts from the Ministry of Finance said that we have already exceeded this limit, that we are closer to 50% than 49%. What is the point of adopting a law that limits you to a level that you have already exceeded? And we didn't agree to do it. We have agreed, however, that the current-acting government will draw up a proposal for constitutional changes to record this anchor in the constitution. And that's not what this government did, that's the only deal that was broken. We have not yet received this proposal, so do not mislead the Slovenian public with incorrect information from a closed meeting. As for the assessment of the government's work, which we will succeed, if you support the majority of the team that we have proposed, I have promised for the last time that we will not deal with this much. What each government has to do is to verify the situation it has taken over, and of course we will do so. But we will not blame our predecessors or our predecessors or the previous government in general for the problems we face and which I hope we will solve together, because this will not lead anywhere, and we will always have to answer some of the obvious. So I think that we can both contribute to making these discussions about the past less than it has been before. There will also have to be some way of making this clear, and for some things the responsibility will have to be transferred. I had previously received a letter from the Chairman of the Organising Committee of this unfortunate university, you appointed the committee in the previous term, but the university has decided, I think, that the National Assembly in 2008 or the National Assembly of the previous reference. And now the Chairman of the Organising Committee writes, on February 16th, there will be a meeting, we will all resign, then this international committee will decide in two days what to do with this university. Slovenia has assumed an international obligation, and the fact is that we have not built any buildings since 2008. Nothing has happened in three years. These are not my words, this is written by Mr Vogrinec in this letter, which will probably also be sent to the Slovenian public. If nothing has been done in three years, it would be fair to say, at least last year, that Slovenia will not organise this event, that this international committee responsible should find another organiser. There were several candidates, and Slovenia won some competition. And you wouldn't have to pay for the pens, and there wouldn't be any shame for the state. If such an event is not carried out by the State which has taken over this obligation, then it will probably be in a bad voice for another ten years when it can run for any other sport or international event. But someone will have to take responsibility for such things. A minister was responsible for this, a minister should come to the National Assembly no later than last year and say, "The crisis is, we have no money, I will not do it." Not that we sent false messages abroad, but that no object had ever been built. The test games should be in the fall. These are things for which the new government will not take responsibility. Someone else will have to do that. But as I have said several times in the last days, this is not our biggest problem in the financial, no other sense, there are others, around these will need to be harnessed. The government is offering cooperation hands, there will be a lot of work in any case, including the efforts that will have to be made, will be huge and there is still time. Slovenia is not in a position, partly thanks to the government, which is likely to have a final mandate today, in which some of the countries with which we joined the European Union in 2009, when they had to drastically, effectively cut themselves into the functioning of their own countries, in public administration and in the public sector. And, thank God, he is not yet in a position such as Greece, where foreign financial institutions determine the level of minimum wage, the highest pension or the number of employees in the public sector. To avoid such a situation, however, we need to act with soundness of mind. You don't have to. I said the situation was serious the last time, but it's not extraordinary. No exceptional measures are therefore necessary, but serious discussion is needed. Intergenerational and social, based on arguments and numbers, not based on any deception, czech, we have still maintained the social state and the new government will destroy it. This maintenance of the so-called social state went from €6 to €8 billion, which is now gone, which we have not created, but which will have to be repaid. It is necessary to be aware of this and in these contexts it is necessary to seek solutions and Slovenia can then go peacefully without any drastic cuts and denials to the normal path of development. Europe will also overcome these crises, with a larger number of European countries. But they're not everything. And by doing so, we need to imitate certain help, as we are in solidarity with others, and we can expect them to. It's right that we make friends there, not our opponents. I am also obliged to thank you for today's largely very constructive debate, including the thanks of Positive Slovenia, which practically gave up the debate. Thus, we have also been given several hours to hold the first government meeting today, so that the government can be set up, start work and hold the first meeting next week, where there will be many problems that have now been waiting for at least a month and a half too long, more than it would normally be for the state to obtain executive power after the elections. Once again, if you support the team proposed by the coalition and I on its behalf today, then I guarantee you not only productive cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, which is in itself conditional, I also guarantee cooperation between the government, the government coalition and the opposition through these normal mechanisms, which otherwise exist in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, including by coordinating key solutions earlier, before the government will even send them into the procedure. The offer is valid whether the possibility of such cooperation will be written or agreed, and we do not really care. It is only content and it is the weight of these decisions that will have to be taken in this context. You're going to vote ten, someone said, jubilee government. In the time ahead, it is less jubilee, there are other challenges, yet this is an event, we are also aware of some festive sermon, and if you give it to us, we will accept with the necessary humility that the executive branch must have before the legislative authorities, and with a firm determination that the measures we have written in our programme will be carried out in common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u109	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this debate. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. If I understand correctly, there is no longer a desire for a debate, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers and ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for the Minister and Ministers in full. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote the motion for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Mr Franz Bogovic as Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Zvonk Černač as Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tomaž Gantar as Minister of Health, Mr Vinko Gorenak as Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs as Minister of Defence, Mrs Ljudmilo Novak as Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia worldwide, Dr. Senk Plicanič as Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr. Janez Šušteršič as Minister of Finance, Dr. Žigo Turka for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Mag. Mr Andrej Visiak as Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Mag. Radovan Žerjava as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. We will vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 50 votes against, 10 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that the Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. / applause/ I invite the Minister and ministers to occupy the seats assigned to the Government in the Chamber, both those who move to these seats from the benches, as well as the others. I congratulate the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish them a successful ministerial duty. I ask the newly appointed Minister and Ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll invite you to take an oath in alphabetical order. Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will be the first to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u110	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u111	I take the oath to invite Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister for Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u112	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u113	At the oath of invitation of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u114	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u115	I take the oath to invite Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u116	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u117	I take the oath to invite Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u118	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u119	I take the oath to invite Mr. Aleš Hojs, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u120	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u121	I hereby call on Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, Minister without a Resource, for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u122	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u123	I call upon Dr. Senko Plicanič, Minister of Justice and Public Administration to take an oath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u124	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u125	I take the oath to invite Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u126	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u127	By oath, I invite Dr. Žigo Turk, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u128	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u129	By oath, I invite the Magus. Mr Andrei Visiak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u130	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u131	I'm calling for more mags to be sworn in. Mr Radovan Žerjava, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u132	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-10-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u133	The oaths are done. Once again congratulations to all and successful work for the good of Slovenia I wish you! I would also like to ask you for some patience, for some formalities, both the Minister, ministers, the President of the Government, the Member of Parliament and Members. Because they were Ambassador Ludmila Novak and Members of Franz Bogovich, Zvonko Černač, Karl Viktor Erjavec, Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Andrej Vizjak and Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav appointed Minister and Ministers, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, they are no longer able to perform their duties as Members. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to communicate to the National Assembly which candidates will replace that Member and Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates to the National Assembly and report on its findings to the National Assembly. This will be decided by the National Assembly within the framework of the 3rd item of the agenda of this meeting, in accordance with the meeting of the Assembly on Tuesday 14 February at 2 p.m. So we'll complete on Tuesday afternoon. The Member and Members who have been appointed Minister and Ministers are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members, and the National Assembly shall be informed of the following conclusions: First Decision: On the basis of the first paragraphs of Article 20, 199 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: It shall be established that Ludmili Novak, who is temporarily unable to act as a Member of the Parliament, has ceased to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. It shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. Second Decision: On the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: Members and Members who are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members of Parliament have ceased to serve as Vice-President of the Health Committee, Mr Bogovic, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and Mag. Mr Žerjav as Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior. Their function shall cease from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. Now, I invite the Minister and the ministers to the lobby of the great hall on an official photo date, and I invite all present to receive us and thus conclude this item on the agenda. I interrupt the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday 14 February at 2 p.m.
