ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Alenka Pavlič, Irena Tavčar, Jakob Presečnik and Branko Marinič. I welcome everyone else here. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Janez Šuštersič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u2	Dear Members, Members, President, good morning! Allow me to briefly present the reasons for these changes to the Tax Procedure Act. As is often the case with such changes, it is easy to transpose European Union legislation into the Slovenian legal order, specifically for a directive on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims relating to taxes, customs and other measures. The essential changes proposed by this amendment to the law are the extension of the scope of administrative assistance for recovery to these claims, namely in relation to taxes and customs that have not yet been covered under these international arrangements or European legislation; the introduction of new legal institutes, namely a single executive title and a single service form, which should facilitate administrative cooperation between Member States; and the possibility of the presence of foreign authorised persons in the performance of the duties of the tax service is also introduced as a direct way of exchanging data. The deadline for transposition of this Directive into national law was 31 December last year, and the Government has also proposed that this amendment of the law be considered in a reduced procedure. I think that, as an introduction to this consideration, is sufficient and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u4	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister with a co-worker, audience on the stand, welcome! At its 2nd meeting, on 4 April 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. This procedure was also endorsed by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which in general draws attention to some of the uncertainties of the solutions proposed for the use of different terminology that show different content or certain inconsistencies. The Legislative and Legal Service has also made specific comments on certain articles of the legislative proposal. On the basis of that opinion, the coalition parliamentary group tabled amendments to Articles 1, 4, 6, 13, 14 and 16 of the legislative proposal. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee was informed of three other proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose of the solutions submitted. The Committee explained that the text introduces the Council's sectoral directive on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims relating to taxes, customs and other measures into the Slovenian legal order. This extends the scope of such mutual assistance to claims relating to taxes and duties not yet covered by mutual assistance. In its presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups and the Committee were largely sufficient for the comments made. At the time of consideration of the individual articles of the text submitted, the Committee did not discuss. As amendments to the Committee, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5, 14, 27 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, the Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 1, 4, 6, 13, 14 in the work adding Article 223a and Article 16 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 14 in the article 223.b to Article 223.b became irrelevant as a result of the adoption of the Committee's substantively broader amendment. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. You may remain for the speaker, given that the views of the groups of Members are being presented and you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The European Union is based on certain starting points, and this is the free movement of goods, services, capital. And since it is based on such solutions, which are the basis for the functioning of the European Union, we also have a common currency in the European Union, as well as capital. This capital moves from country to country and it is important that this capital is taxed. If this capital and this income are not taxed, then tax evasion occurs. And these tax evasions need to be sanctioned. We have one currency and each country has its own tax administration, which of course means that cooperation must be deepened, especially because tax systems are also different in countries. Usually, individuals can be taxed where they have a permanent residence where they have a temporary residence where they have a life or economic interest. This means that individuals are going under the jurisdiction of different tax administrations. They can also receive income in different countries and, therefore, this amendment to the Tax Procedure Act will allow us to have more control over these individuals and thus a smaller number of tax evasions. It is similar with legal persons who are normally taxed per seat, where they have a seat, but also where they operate, by business units and so on. In short, incomes come from different sources, from different countries, because of this taxation is actually in different countries. This means that one tax administration needs to know what another is doing, especially with regard to a specific taxpayer, and that they need to exchange information on what and what taxes individual taxpayers pay in different European Union countries. By supplementing the Tax Procedure Act, we will increase the efficiency of tax evasion prevention, reduce the number of tax evasioners and increase the efficiency of tax administrations. This is why the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act, which, last but not least, has been tabled by the previous government, the government of Borut Pahor. The draft law transposes Directive 2010/24 into the Slovenian legal order. This is the arrangement of mutual recovery aid, which was first laid down in Council Directive 76/308/EEC of 15 March 1976 on mutual assistance in recovery of claims arising from an operation which forms part of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund financing system and the claim of taxes and customs duties transferred to Slovenia in 2004. Those Directives and amending acts were codified by the 2008 Council Directive. Directive 2010/24 only builds on the content of mutual recovery aid between Member States by extending the scope of mutual recovery aid and the tax and customs claims that have not yet been covered by mutual recovery aid and facilitates its implementation in practice. Transposition thus means a substantially less difficult harmonisation of the law with European Union law. For all of this, which also means simplification, we will support the Social Democrats' proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette of Gregor Virant, Mr Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! As I said meaningfully yesterday, what I think about the transposition of directives into our legal order, I would say today, on this occasion, that the Parliamentary Group of the National List will not be presenting its position here, as this is only known. The transposition of the directive is mandatory, so I do not feel that there is a need to repeat views. I also propose on the following points that we shorten our performances a little. Of course, we will support this because otherwise it cannot and cannot. We must transpose these directives into our legal order, because we are already late with everything. I believe that automaticism should be established in this regard, that the professional services prepare the current implementations of the directives and then inform the National Assembly accordingly, which then confirms the writings of these amendments to the laws, so that we are also, of course, aware of what is going on here. After all, I find it pointless to discuss and give views on things that have already been adopted and cannot be changed, and we must not change them. However, I have already said that it is possible to pay little attention to the adoption of European directives, where everyone has the right to propose a different version or other thing, and then the impact on what this European directive will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u12	Good day and good bye! Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will, of course, support the proposal, as we are also discussing it on various committees. This is the transposition of the Directive, which builds upon mutual recovery assistance between Member States, by extending the scope of mutual recovery aid to tax and customs claims. I hope that these relations will work, because otherwise these things will not make sense and that the controls will be consistent. The proposal does not substantially change the basic principles of law and existing solutions to the current law, so, as I said in the introduction, we will support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We will support the proposed amendment because it is less difficult to bring the law into line with European Union law. In this way, we are helping each other to recover tax, customs and other measures that have not yet been covered by mutual recovery assistance and facilitating the implementation of procedures in practice. The Regulation lays down several new legal instruments, at the same time introducing models of standard uniform enforcement forms and several rules on service. While we are concerned about the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which points out the inconsistencies of terminology, we agree that the amendment of the law can also be intended to harmonise or unify the terminology of the law. The deadline for transposition of the directive into the national legal order of the Member States was 31 December 2011, and this did not happen because of objective circumstances, and we believe that now is the time for transposition of the directive in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Mr. Minister with co-worker! With the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, we transpose Directive 2010/24 into the Slovenian legal order. Mutual assistance between the Member States of the European Union for the recovery of claims and the claim of the European Union contributes to the proper functioning of the internal market, ensures fiscal neutrality and allows Member States of the European Union to remove discriminatory safeguards in cross-border transactions adopted to prevent fraud and budgetary losses. This Directive builds on the content of mutual recovery assistance between the Member States of the European Union by extending the scope of mutual recovery aid to tax and customs claims not yet covered by mutual recovery aid and by facilitating its implementation in practice. Directive 2010/24 as a novelty introduces a uniform enforcement address and a uniform service form. The adoption of a uniform enforcement address in the requested Member State of the European Union and the adoption of a uniform form for the service of acts solves problems relating to the recognition and translation of acts originating in another Member State of the European Union, as these problems have been the main cause of inefficiency of the regime of the receiving administrative assistance. This means that it is no longer necessary for the Slovenian competent authority to supplement or amend, in any other way, the act it receives in enforcement from the requesting State, since the single executive address contains more detailed information on the debtor and the claim for which the aid is requested. In New Slovenia, we would like to point out once again that the tax procedure represents a sensitive relationship between private and public benefit, and therefore the application of the basic principles of the tax procedure is particularly important. The principles set an acceptable framework between private and public interest. In view of the exceptional importance of complying with the principles of the tax procedure, it is necessary to recall at least the most important. These are universal and also applicable within the European Union and are as follows: the principle of legality, the principle of proportionality, the principle of tax confidentiality, the principle of legitimate and timely compliance with tax obligations, the principle of the duty to give data, the principle of the right to appeal, the principle of certainty, awareness and assistance, the principle of material truth and the principle of economics. Since the European Union is a voluntary community of countries and Slovenia is an equal member of the European Union, the New Slovenia Group supports the implementation of Directive 2010/24 into the Slovenian legal order, so we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The amendments under consideration, together with the amendments adopted on the parent committee, have already upgraded the existing mutual assistance institution to recover the tax claims laid down in the rules of the European Union and also the rules of the countries that are members of the European Union. The Directive, which we introduce in our legal order, extends the scope of administrative assistance to each other, sets out the taxes which are the subject of the procedure, the powers and details of the administrative and administrative technique which is initiated on the basis of the request for assistance. The agreement with the bill is logical, but I would point out in advance, paragraph 26 of the draft law governing the notification and reporting to the European Commission of the number of requests for assistance, the amount of claims and amounts recovered. However, since these procedures, which we are now talking about, are not from yesterday, but I already have quite some experience in our institutions, it would also be interesting to know about the procedures that have been carried out so far, their scope and effectiveness, in order to know what we are actually talking about today and what we will be deciding on from practice. While the Group supports the law, it is likely that it is mature for a larger reconstruction in particular in order to simplify the tax procedure and increase the efficiency of tax collection. I'm also talking indirectly about the revenue side that we're about to meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a bill on amendments and additions to the Act on Payment Services and Systems. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u20	Your Honor! This is another of these laws, in which I agree with the principled position of the Civil Gazette. This may not surprise us that there is not enough to add to what we need to transfer to our legal order. We must because, of course, we have decided, together with other Member States, that there will be no mistake. Of course it's our own decision. It is, however, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems, namely the transposition of a directive setting out the competences of the European Supervisory Authority. As was the case with the previous law, the deadline was the end of last year, and the previous government started this homework, and we are now finishing it. The draft law requires the Bank of Slovenia to notify the European Systemic Risk Committee and the European Supervisory Authority if insolvency proceedings against any member of payment systems are initiated. At the same time, it must inform the European Securities and Markets Authority of important payment systems. It is therefore an obligation to report on things that may be at risk, and this reporting is now also being regulated at the level of cooperation of the European supervisory authorities. The requirement to calculate initial capital for payment institutions and the electronic money company has also been amended. The validity of licences issued to these institutions for the provision of payment services shall be governed when these payment institutions are involved in the statusal transformation of companies. This is said if payment institutions are to be involved in the merger or division of certain companies, they will have to be authorised by the Bank of Slovenia in order to maintain the authorisation to provide payment services. Finally, there is also a distinction between a pure electronic money company and a hybrid company, which also provides payment services other than electronic money. We propose that such a bill, which already includes the amendments adopted, be supported. I also apologize to you for probably not being able to be here until the end of the discussion of this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We wish you a happy journey, Minister. The position of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which considered the proposal to be the working body of the mother, will be presented by the Chairman of the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance has also been a parent worker this time and has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems. This law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. He was treated on short notice. This reduced procedure was endorsed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on the provisions of Articles 5 and 18 of the draft law. These comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance gave a more detailed presentation of the purposes and objectives of the law. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were duly taken into account in both amendments. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 18 of the Law. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Again, good-bye! I'll follow the instructions, Mr. Minister, and I'll be relatively brief. In the Group of Social Democrats we will support a law whose aim is to transpose the directive into the Slovenian legal order. I will not say what this directive means and what we are introducing, but I would also like to remind the Minister that they are also doing their homework. Social Democrats are missing real measures to prevent payment non-discipline. For example, the government of Janez Janša has not adopted amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments made by the previous government, whose measures would have a beneficial impact on the development of the economy in Slovenia. The question is also raised as to whether the powers of the APIS should be extended in order to become some new so-called SDK. As I mentioned at the outset, we will support this directive. We expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to actively cooperate and work to prevent payment non-discipline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Marija Plevčak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services. It is less difficult to amend and supplement the bill in order to comply with European Union law. The European Directive on the finality of settlement in payments and securities settlement systems is transposed into the Slovenian legal order. Banka Slovenije will have to report on the initiation of insolvency proceedings against members of payment systems. The specific situation of the electronic money company as a participant in the payment system is also identified. I would add to this personally, and I agree with Mr Han that there is a need to exercise control over the flow of funds. Those of you who are a little older are reminded of the SDK service, which has closely monitored all the operations and financial flows, and I think we are missing this, because we are not yet an adult democratic society that would work honestly and think honestly. As it is said, this amendment also has the support of the entire parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party – Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u28	Your Honor! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services is another type of legislation whose main purpose is to harmonise national legislation with European Union law. The main purpose of the proposed law is to transpose a directive amending the powers of the three European supervisory authorities: the European Banking Authority, the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority into the Slovenian legal order. In addition, the proposed law amends and complements certain provisions of the basic law which have been shown to be clearer in the implementation of the law. This is mainly the case with provisions relating to electronic money companies. The proposed law thus lays down the obligation to notify the competent authorities in the event of insolvency of payment system participants, setting out the specific situation of electronic money companies in such a way as to bring their situation closer to that of payment institutions. The proposed law also makes the procedures for issuing electronic money for hybrid companies clearer. For a hybrid electronic money company, it is established that the capital requirement for electronic money is increased by the value of the capital requirement for the provision of payment services, if these are not related to the issuance of electronic money and it is also clearer to calculate the capital requirement in other cases. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed law allows for greater transparency as regards the status of payment system participants, which, in our opinion, will improve the situation of payment services within the European Union, so we will unanimously support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Maja Dimitrovski has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The main purpose of this time and the completion of the Law on Payment Services and Systems is to transpose Directive 2010/78 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 December 2010, which changes several directives already issued and regulates the powers of the European Supervisory Authority, namely the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. The bill amends and complements the provisions of the Law on Electronic Money Extradition Companies, for which it has been shown in the implementation of the law that they need to be written down more clearly. The aim of the new rules is to establish a way of informing the European Systemic Risk Committee of other Member States and the European Supervisory Authority of the initiation of procedures and measures for insolvency of a participant in the payment system and to determine how to inform the European Securities and Markets Authority of important payment systems. The draft law follows the following principles: the principle of aligning the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union; the principle of legal certainty as regards the issue of electronic money; and the principle of greater transparency as regards the notification of the initiation of procedures and measures for insolvency of a participant in the payment system. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law to comply with these principles and the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services. The content itself has already been clarified. Here, in particular, let me stress that this law achieves and enforces greater legal certainty and greater transparency in Slovenia's legal order. At the same time, greater certainty is also ensured, as this law also regulates the capital and capital adequacy of certain payment institutions and also regulates more precisely the control and control mechanisms of those legal entities that issue electronic money. This law brings greater stability, greater control, greater legal certainty and greater transparency to the country, so we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for commitments from the long-term loan of EUR 440 million for the financing of the project for the establishment of a compensatory block of 6 600 MW in the thermal energy sector. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members, with the first-signed Srečko Meho. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Bevk, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Srečko Meh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u34	Dear Members and Members! The Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is a law by which we will pay 440 million euros in long-term loans to the European Investment Bank, leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., to finance the construction project of the replacement block 6 by 600 MW at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. The guarantee is necessary because, otherwise, the State should write down almost a billion value of its assets and provide around 450 million by recapitalisation for the so-called revitalization of Blocks 4 and 5 at the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant with the continuation of production and contribute at least 300 million or close to 300 million funds under specific laws for the closure of Velenje Coal Mine. The adoption of the Guarantee and Loan Act by the European Investment Bank is economically most useful as the loans provided by the European Investment Bank are either favourable or very favourable. The adoption of the proposed law will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, by which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the lender – the European Investment Bank – for the liabilities of the TEC under the loan contract. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the main condition for drawing up a loan of EUR 440 million, which will allow the TES to continue the investment smoothly, setting up a replacement block of 6 Power 600 MW at the thermal power plant Šostanj. Today is the first consideration of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the law. I expect that the Government will prepare, in parallel with the guarantee law, all necessary so that the guarantee for the actual lending of the European Investment Bank can be issued as soon as possible. It is also necessary to prepare for the ratification of the guarantee contract, which the National Assembly still needs to adopt. Thus, the International Guarantee Treaty will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order and the assumptions for drawing credit will be met. The adoption of the guarantee law TES 6 is possible and, in my opinion, necessary before May 20th, which should be the deadline for the conclusion of the final drawdown contracts or contracts with Alstom. At the expected May session, I expect support for the guarantee law, as the Government has supported the law, with comments and demands, of course. In particular, the Government of Janez Janša has already included the TES project in the resolution on national development projects on 7 October 2006. In particular, I would like to point out that TES 6 is a replacement investment for blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, with 1, 2, 3 and 4 actually going into liquidation and 5 remaining in the cold reserve. In comparison with existing Blocks 4 and 5, TES 6 will use almost one million tonnes less coal, emit 1.2 million tonnes less CO2 in air, and reduce CO2 emissions by 30 % by 4 thousand 522 tonnes and 66% respectively. On the basis of this project, we will actually contribute to reducing releases. It is also worth mentioning that this energy project will provide reliable electricity supply in Slovenia. Even this year we can see that in a very small watery year and cold weather there have been problems in the supply of electricity from domestic sources. The adoption of the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the Construction of Substitute Block 6 has a long history. Much was said and written, but of course much was done, as the investment in Šostjanje is flowing and is already in good condition, if we can say so. Today, MEPs and Members can take an important step towards building an important energy project. I suggest you support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. A presentation of the Government's opinion was to follow, but unfortunately the Government could not provide representatives who could deliver this opinion. The Minister of Finance personally apologized and gave reasons. Minister Zvonko Černač, who will be with us here, is on his way. Nevertheless, you have all received a written opinion from the Government. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Minister Zvonko Černač will be able to participate in the debate later in the general debate. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Nationals of Gregor Virant and on behalf of Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u36	Another good day, all of it! We will be Members of the Civil Gazette all the time we have adopted this law in a dilemma. We're running out of answers to a lot of questions. We know that the investment is ongoing, we know that the volume of investment is extremely high, it is over a billion 300 million euros. We know that this investment has already been undermined many times, and we know what the Government's opinion is to support the country's proposal for a guarantee under certain conditions, but questions are still open or not sufficiently familiar with them. Even if we read various opinions and debates over the past four years after the media, we do not get any precise information that is badly needed for such an investment and such a decision. We don't have one clear elaborator, what will be the profitability of this investment, how it is with environmental impacts, whether it's enough coal, we've heard something about it, but we don't have any reliable data. We are getting different information, in particular how the investor Termoelectrica Šostjanj and its owner Holding Slovenian Power Plants approached, that this approach and the start of construction, without all the necessary documents, obtained all the consents and covered financial structure, is very clumsy to run one such big project that can really have an impact on all citizens. We can assume that the decision is the right one, we will not be able to agree that the price is increasing so dramatically. We are also disturbed by various letters from the European Union asking us to do everything in order to protect the environment so that this construction does not continue. I think the most important thing for us is to provide us with accurate information, what is the nature of the loan itself, how credits from the depreciation itself or from the revenues that this new investment project will create. I don't know if there's enough money, or if there's enough profits, or if there's enough resources to be generated by the current selling of electricity so that this loan can come back. If this credit does not come back, then this possibility will arise that the state will have to jump in and return the whole matter. We already know quite a few examples in the electricity industry when we were planning because we had dilemmas and talked about various inherited investments. I do not want this to be any further investment, then of course it can be a major problem and better to end it as soon as possible. In fact, it is necessary to do everything possible to clear up the future. Here I am disturbed, for example, by certain things also in the functioning of the entire energy market, changes in these markets, redistribution of profits and income. Among other things, that the electricity industry places profits in the New Credit Bank by order of the country, which is also the owner and manager of our electricity distribution system. So there's a lot of dilemma as to how electricity prices are determined. This is becoming increasingly marketable, so that in fact we will wait somewhat for some good arguments in our decision, and then we will decide and hope to make the right decision not only for some individuals, but for all citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u38	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act on long-term loan liabilities of EUR 440 million, leased by Termoelectrica Šostanj, d.o.o., to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the replacement block project 6, power 600 MW at the Termoelectrica Šostanj. We have before us a proposal for a law that divides the Slovenian public into strong advocates and strong opponents of the project TEŠ 6 and the state guarantee to the topic. We have also carefully weighed the arguments for and against guarantees in the DeSUS Group. In doing so, we listened to the arguments of investors who tried to convince us why we should support the proposal of the law, as well as the arguments of those who strongly oppose the State guarantee for ecological reasons. On the one hand, we have faced suspicions of corruption and lack of transparency in the implementation of the project, possible increased environmental burdens, possible inability to repay the loan, additional public debt burdens and the like. We also had concerns about the use of fossil fuels used by the thermal power plant because we are living in an era of renewable energy resources that are much more environmentally friendly than lignite. On the other hand, we can see that the project has gone too far to be stopped. Too much money has already been invested in the project, huge interventions have been made in the environment to build a new bloc and too many performers have already been involved in the project. The compensations that should be paid due to outstanding deadlines are too high to be afforded. Failure to complete the project could also constitute a major social bomb for the area of the Savina-Shales Valley. Other companies depend on the construction of the new block, such as the huge mine and, of course, many others. Thermal power plants, according to our assessment, are among the more stable sources of electricity, as they do not depend on each weather phenomenon. Due to the extremely low water level of the Slovenian rivers, the current drought has made hydroelectric power plants very difficult, which will significantly reduce the amount of electricity supplied. Given the increasing consumption of electricity in Slovenia and the whole of society, it is essential that we be as independent as possible in the field of electricity supply. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the new bloc will be a useful tool for Slovenia's increased self-sustainment with electricity. We are afraid that in the event that the guarantee is not issued, the state should write down almost a billion of its assets and recapitalise some 450 million euros to revitalize the blocks 4 and 5 and contribute close to 300 million euros under specific laws to close Velenje's coal mines. Today, however, Slovenia simply cannot afford this. As has already been said, we are inclined in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia to approve the guarantee for the construction of the new TES block, so we will support the proposal for a law at first reading. However, we expect that the investor will meet all four conditions set by the Government: lower the value of the project and reduce costs, conclude a contract on the long-term supply of lignite at the maximum price of NIP 4 between TES and Velenje Coal, ensure completion of the project according to the attached timetable and limit CO2 emissions under the investment programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The history of the project to build a new Scottish thermal power plant dates back to the 1990s. There was also a different situation on the electricity market. Investment in modern technology in the field of thermal power plants has also been in the full course of the Western European countries, which today, 15 years later, are very indecisive about their energy future. The decision for the sixth block is also due to the fact that the youngest of the five blocks of the Scottish power plant, which together produces about a third of the energy in the country, and in times of crisis almost half the age of more than thirty-five. I probably do not need to stress that this is an outdated technology and it was decided already in June 2004 to build a new, modern, more powerful and also, in a loving way, a much more environmentally friendly sixth block instead of a complete restoration of existing infrastructure, with the new technology of the environment, than could ever have been old-made blocks. The financial savings between the reconstruction and the new block are clearly visible. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we understand that electricity production is also closely linked to high investment, search for greater savings, exploitation and so on. By the end of 2008, major project controversy had not been detected, but it is true that some concrete millions had not been invested in the new bloc by then. There were just paperwork, a few contracts, and so on. Then came the global economic and financial crisis. The situation deteriorated; the shock for the Slovenian economy was severe. At that time, for the first time in the Slovenian People's Party, the question arose whether, given the substantially changed economic situation and also the situation in the financial and credit markets, the scope of the project was still meaningful. No one was upset at the time either. In the week, so the previous coalition started its work, then the second largest coalition party, out of Parliament today, the biggest critic of the Sixth-Block project was not burdened by this problem at all. The question of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to the then President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, about the reorganisation of Slovenian energy, or about the amendment of the national energy programme, followed with great courage. Of course, the point of the question was TER 6. Today's Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franci Bogovic, wanted to hear from the opposition MPs the very clear and loud position of the then government on this project. Therefore, regardless of the changed economic situation, the general decline in electricity consumption due to the decline in economic activity, the fall in electricity price following the adopted energy package adopted by the European Commission, it is indeed time to seriously and responsibly consider a project to which only EUR 25 million was linked at the time. This was a potential loss of EUR 25 million at that time. The National Assembly even held a general debate on this issue. There was no greater interest in our call to at least seriously consider reducing the project, i.e. not a complete stop, but whether the 600-megawatt block is truly optimal or could be met with smaller ones. The project continued unaltered. More. In the spring of that year, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia made a clear promise to the leading people of the European Investment Bank, the main project funder, that the country was fully responsible for the project from a financial point of view. It probably does not need to be emphasized that the words of the Prime Minister apply in all Western European countries. This is probably what investors believed in this project. Today, again as a country, we appear to be a completely non-creditable partner in international business. Just like in many other areas. Because in the past we have spoken one thing to foreign partners many times, and in the end we have done something completely different. The so-called TER 6 block also has an environmental dimension. We all know that a certain degree of pollution will continue to occur, but because of more advanced technology, it is less than it has been so far. The idea of how mankind will acquire energy only from the sun, wind, or water sources is unfortunately still very, very far from being realized. At that time, our country needs electricity. Are we going to buy it abroad at these oil prices, gas? No, no, no. We need our resources to provide our economy. In the event of any crisis or shock, a country without at least a partial energy supply is totally dependent on the welfare of other countries. Or simply put, it is an area where we cannot rely on others, for we can find something quickly in the dark. However, without new and more concrete capacities, we cannot achieve this objective. At this point, the coal industry as a source of energy has not yet written off. In the Slovenian People's Party, we reviewed the data once again, and coal is no doubt the problem of this project. Today, over half a billion euros are invested in the project, the construction is practically standing, the equipment is purchased. So let's stop him now? And then what? Do we have an alternative, do we have a backup plan, or can we afford in the times that await us a bag of dozens and dozens of millions of government money without getting one megawatt of electricity out of it? It seems important to us in the Slovenian People's Party that the European Investment Bank and others are still very strongly involved in the project. Believe that these two banks are not doing things in mind and that they have studied this project well, as well as the financial situation of the Slovenian state, to assess how well they can assess future trends in electricity prices, I am not even talking about. They obviously believe in this project more than we do. Let's be perfectly clear, of course. Today in the Slovenian People's Party we are talking about the project as such. The other thing is how he was guided, what was going on there, whether the behavior of all the administrations was rational and so on. But, fellow Members, we cannot answer these questions. That is why this country has institutions that can investigate, revise, question, review, call for accountability and so on. Once again, the position of the Slovenian People's Party is that if someone has done something wrong in this project, they should also be responsible. However, there is no way that judgment can be given on the basis of allegations, media charges, cross-indictments. However, anyone can report irregularities, but we also need some epilogue in this matter and not just each other's accusations. Although it is difficult for us in the Slovenian People's Party to imagine the consequences of non-voting the guarantee. The worst, so the withdrawal of funds, can also be stopped by the project. Who's gonna pull the plug out of this for a little while? National energy companies have already invested their money. In the Slovenian People's Party, we fear that by not being able to take a united position in this area today, when we politicise and similar things, we are particularly hurting ourselves and our craftsmen. Today, the responsibility for the continuation of the project had to be taken over by the current government, the one who inherited all the events described two months ago. Today in the Slovenian People's Party we hope for a proper debate. However, we must be aware that we are making a very important principled, strategic and political decision. I therefore hope, in particular, for a further constructive debate, which will not only consist of accusations, but we will look at what we can do with the project today, when the situation is as it is, and that we are not causing ourselves additional costs. More in the debate below. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will give the law a green light at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u42	Dearly beloved Vice President, dear colleagues, welcome! While in Slovenia we are currently earmarking a billion euros for a thermal power plant, billions of euros across Europe are earmarked for renewable energy sources. Today, I do not want to discuss the meaning of the Termoelectrica Šostanj 6 but, above all, the guarantee, which is also the subject of today's debate. We have to ask ourselves who we're giving bail to, what kind of company. I would like to quote you one article that speaks very eloquently about the business of this company and was published on the media portal RTV on February 25th, and says: "The findings are inexcusable. TES purchased computer equipment via brokers on the way to TES and the price of computer equipment has risen rapidly in some cases. That's not all. In the chain of intermediaries there are so-called "missing traders", companies that do not pay VAT in the tax workshop. Follow the money path: TES from HP via DISS distributor, d. o.o., buy computer equipment. DISS equipment, which has cost HP 707 000 euros, provides Strok with a product of almost 754 000 euros. For the poor 4 000 euros more, equipment goes further to Netlink, and from there for astronomical 928 thousand euros more to Trendnet, which is otherwise HP's partner. To the final customer – TES comes all the delivery, so it appears, on the same day, 3. Ten. 2008, 120 grand more. A thorough review of the companies in the chain reveals, so informally Durs that Netlink, "missing trader", is the task of the company in the chain, is only to raise the price." This is just one of many articles that has appeared on the business and business method of TES. Among other things, the Anti-Corruption Commission notes in its findings that the project was designed and implemented in a non-transparent manner, with inadequate supervision and burdened by political and lobbying influences. I think you all know this graph, I printed it for all those newly elected Members who may not have been following all the things from the beginning, but the TES 6 project was still standing or was estimated at 600 million euros in 2006 and then grew strong over a billion euros. Among other things, the Anti-Corruption Commission notes that, in dealing with three different suppliers with which ten contracts totalling EUR 2.8 million were concluded, the management of the TEC has shown a lower contractual value in order to avoid obtaining the supervisory board's consent. The State is therefore to provide a guarantee to an undertaking that hides things even to its own supervisory council. Is this an economic act? It further states from the anti-corruption commission that, in the process of collecting bids for the acquisition of the main technology equipment, the management has made it possible to inform the business secrets of one of the tenderers to the other tenderer, which was eventually chosen. Do you think this is a healthy competition? They shall continue to determine whether a member of the technical commission for the acquisition of technological equipment has been involved in a business relationship with the selected technology equipment provider. This is something similar, as if the chief or visible union leader were the main government negotiator. The revision made by PricewaterhouseCoopers in TES showed a number of shortcomings. There was no real response when the Government requested certain measures from HSE, HSE so written to the Government that the Government is not even competent to ask him to do so or to give such conclusions to the AUKN. It's about as if I were to warn you that there's a danger behind the curves, but you'd say who you are to warn me about such things. Any reasonable person would take such a warning. We therefore intend to provide such a company with a guarantee. In New Slovenia, we are simply not prepared to take responsibility for such things and therefore we will not support this guarantee. However, we are interested in why TES needs a guarantee, but if it constantly stresses that the project is entirely economical. Why, then, do they not acquire funds from commercial banks if the matter is fully economically justified? How can we make a guarantee if the state guarantee requires a 9% return, which, of course, is a T6 project that is not being achieved. The government has made four conditions for this guarantee. One of these was that the investor is trying to negotiate a lower price with all suppliers. What happened in this last period? The public has been informed that only costs have increased by EUR 100 million over the last period due to the installation of equipment. This is, for example, a very concrete response to a government request. Then the second requirement was to relatively fix the price of coal from Velenje Coal. And I think the representatives of TES have said publicly that this is virtually impossible or very difficult. The third condition was that public frameworks should be put in place, when and how this investment would be ensured and it was also said that restrictions on CO2 emissions should be ensured, which will also be very difficult if we know that at the same time the Thermoelectrical 6 will work 5. We estimate in New Slovenia that no conditions have been met for the State to guarantee this project, so we will also oppose this guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia has the floor of Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u44	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The technological part of the project for the construction of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant was established in 2003 as a compensation for all existing blocks of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant. The total power of the buildings so far exceeded 700 megawatts and block 6 would have 600 megawatts and would have spent almost a million tonnes less coal to produce 3.4 terawatts of energy, with almost 1.2 million tonnes less CO2 emissions, will also reduce NOx emissions by over 4 thousand tonnes. The energy licence for the 600 megawatt block was obtained by TES in 2006, although it was essentially issued for 520 megawatts. In the same year, Block 6 was added to the resolution on national development projects of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and confirmed at the HSE Assembly and introduced into the HSE Development Plan. The Environment Consent of the Ministry of Environment and Space for the Termoelectrica Šostanj was issued in 2009 and the Environmental Protection Authorisation in 2011. The building permit for the refrigeration tower and the building permit for block 6 as a whole was issued in 2011. The financial structure required for the construction of TEŠ 6 is as follows: the European Investment Bank loan of EUR 550 million, of which EUR 440 million is secured by the State guarantee and EUR 110 million by the guarantee of commercial banks. The European Bank’s loan for development of EUR 200 million is secured by the guarantee of HSE and the withdrawal of long-term TES claims to HSE and the own resources of TES and HSE are totalling EUR 552 million. For loans from both banks, TEŠ obtained the consent of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance and a letter of support from the Government of RS in 2007 and 2010. In 2010, TES signed a project financing contract with the European Investment Bank totalling EUR 550 million and concluded a guarantee contract with five commercial banks for EUR 110 million of EIB credit; these also issued a guarantee. In 2011, TES signed a contract with the European Development Bank for the financing of the block 6 project totalling EUR 200 million with the insurance of HSE parent company. On the basis of these contracts, TEC has been drawing up EUR 110 million of the EIB loan and EUR 82.5 million of the European Bank for Development credit by the end of 2011. By the end of 2011, TES had already paid EUR 447.5 million for the project. The HSE bridge financing was concluded for the period until the Republic of Slovenia guarantees an EIB loan of EUR 440 million. This guarantee, however, will allow €117.5 million of the European Bank's development credit to be drawn up in connection with the two banks' contracts. Support for the construction of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant is based on a large part of the professional facts. Let me summarize some of these. Given the fact that all countries in Europe use coal, it should be noted that Slovenia is no exception to the production of electricity from fossil fuels. On the contrary, when we talk about a carbon-free society, the energy sector has 60% of carbon-free energy produced and thus meets environmental criteria with the envisaged thermoelectric technology of Šostanj 6. It is also important to mention that this percentage of energy is mainly produced from domestic coal stocks and lignit from Velenje coal mines will be the only fuel for TES 6. It is also true that it is easier for thermal power plants to cover fluctuations in the electricity distribution system and thus ensure a certain degree of energy independence. Central Block 6 by exploiting waste heat or secondary energy for heating facilities in the Shaleska Valley gives an additional positive effect to the operating costs and certainly allows the completion of mining in Velenje without burden for taxpayers. The provision or maintenance of jobs in the coal mine and in the Šostjanje Termoelectrica and indirect jobs in the Shaleška Valley in such a large facility is also irrelevant. Of course, it is not possible to avoid further opposition to the construction of TES. Environmental protection organisations mainly base their concerns on the usefulness of the construction of TES 6 and on the potential for green electricity generation in a more cost-effective manner and according to them. Their main opposition to the continuation of the construction of TES 6 is due to the possibility of simultaneous operation of blocks 5 and 6 and thus the possible increase of releases above the authorised, allowing for an environmental permit and therefore supporting the renewal of blocks 4 and 5, which is the passport. The first claim is excessive because the coal mine is physically unable to provide sufficient coal for the simultaneous operation of both over a longer period of time, as well as the use of block 6 technology, which is over 43%, means more energy, less CO2 emissions per unit of energy produced, so the operation of block 5 would also exacerbate the operational results of the thermoelectric power plant 6. The renewal of Blocks 4 and 5 would also, according to some estimates, represent smaller savings, higher releases and lower energy independence. The facts that are not in favour of supporting the construction of TES 6 are also the following: the TES 6 project is not in the current national energy programme, which is based on the energy law as a document providing a broad consensus of citizens on long-term energy policy. It is true, however, that three out of five proposals now contain new options for the national energy programme. We must also not overlook certain claims that Block 6 is likely to be re-designated, which increases the risk of achieving the profitability of sectoral policy at the time of operation of TES 6. The Commission has also drawn up interim findings and views with regard to the TES6 project due to numerous evidence of irregularities in the implementation of the project. We can argue that the procedure whereby this guarantee law is adopted is unusual and the Ministry of Energy responsible for energy cannot place the responsibility for the implementation and status of the project on the legislator or on HSE and TES. At its 3rd meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered the information on the project Replacement Block TEŠ 6, the state of February 2012, and adopted a decision on the willingness to take additional risks for the issue of the State guarantee for the TES6 project, at a cost of EUR 440 million, provided that the investor, through negotiations with all suppliers, reduces the value of the new investment programme 4 and brings them as close as possible to the value of the NIP 3 project, all costs must be borne in the final value of all costs, between Coal Velenje and the Termoelectric Company of Šoštanj, before the approval of the State guarantee, to conclude a contract on the long-term supply of lignite at the maximum price of NIP 4, that is 2,25 euros per giga joule, that the investor must ensure the completion of the project according to the agreed schedule and obtain a usable permit by 15. 2. 2016 that the investor must ensure all conditions for achieving the profitability of the project in accordance with the sectoral energy policy and that it must ensure a CO2 emission limit in line with the investment programme. It is worth noting that the report on the measures taken by the Government, TEC 6 and HSE was delivered by 15 March. However, the government has not yet informed the public of the report. At the time, TES felt that the Government’s requirements had been met, although it could not claim that the project’s costs could be reduced by EUR 100 million. It follows that TEM has not fulfilled or has not yet been complied with the government’s conclusions on the reduction of the value of NIP 3 and that these costs could be even higher than those assessed in NIP 4. The question is also raised whether the TES will be able to provide all the conditions for achieving the profitability of the project in accordance with the energy sector policy and whether the investor will ensure completion of the project in accordance with the attached timetable. At the time of its consideration of the opinion on the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for the long-term loan liabilities leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, the Government adopted the following conclusions. It entrusted the Ministry of Energy with preparing comprehensive information on the project for the next meeting of the Government and on the basis of the audits already carried out on the preparation of the TES 6 project and, on the basis of the NIP 4 review report, to carry out appropriate procedures to exercise responsibility for identified irregularities and deficiencies in the project by 30 April 2012 at the latest. It ordered the management of TEŠ and HSE to sanction the irregularities identified in the preparation and management of the replacement block 6 project so far and to prepare a written report by 15 March 2012 at the latest on the implementation of the measures referred to in the statements of the thermal power plant and HSE’s management of 5 October 2011. The current government cannot avoid political responsibility for the TES 6 project through its conclusions. The government is almost in the same composition as it was in 2004-2008, so the New Slovenia Scepticism for this project, or the government's consent to the guarantees, is absurd. The former, or already deceased President of Nova Slovenije and then Minister of Finance, in addition to the then Minister of Economy, are politically responsible for the project TES 6. To date, positive Slovenia has not been informed that TES and HSE would sanction the irregularities identified. In addition to the initiation of criminal proceedings in Positive Slovenia, we are also referring to the identification of compensation for the conclusion of harmful contracts, negligence and abuse of the situation. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission found that TEM 6 was largely due to inadequate supervision, non-response, systemic irregularities and non-coordination of state authorities. The focus has been on all governments since 2007. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission points not only to criminal liability but also to all forms of accountability related to conflicts of interest and integrity in the public sector, stating that the project has been burdened with political and lobbying influences, which have led to high risks to corruption and conflicts of interest in relation to the project. These risks are still present today, as the government, apart from the Minister responsible, has not done anything yet to change the leadership of HSE and TES. In Positive Slovenia we support the completion of TEŠ 6, which we also wrote in the pre-election programme. At the same time, we requested a review of the procedure, which was not fully carried out. Therefore, we do not want to take responsibility for a project which, in our view, has not been conducted transparently by our vote in favour of the guarantee. Ambassadors and Members of the Positive Slovenia will abstain in the vote or vote in their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, headphones and listeners! Today we are talking about a financial law, we are talking about a law by which the state is supposed to give a guarantee to the European Investment Bank for EUR 440 million to be obtained by the company that is building TES 6. This means, of course, that energy issues are also important for Slovenia, but it is based on the financial issue and the basis of this project is how it was led. And if we are talking about these things now, then it must first be said that the price of this project has risen in four, five years from 691 million to 1.3 billion. This means, of course, that a number of annexes to existing contracts were signed to the first contract when the first contractor was selected. And this first contractor probably did not make the final offer and the final price. Perhaps someone else gave the final price and might not be here today and would not consider this law. Perhaps the project would have been completed by then, or it would have gone to the end. This means that this project is similar to managing a number of projects with which we built motorways in Slovenia. As a result, of course, this project needs a review, a full revision of the financial area, a complete revision of the economy, and also a search for those people if they have violated any legal standards regarding criminal laws. The cashing of the guarantee does not constitute an additional obligation for the Republic of Slovenia and the financial effect of this guarantee actually amounts to 11 million. The European Investment Bank loan of 11 million is more favourable than any credit that this company would have received on the market. Because of this and because of certain irregularities, which have already been pointed out here, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a number of conditions that must be met with regard to this project, with regard to the continuation of the project and also how this project will be conducted in the future. It is certainly necessary to lower the price, after all this price has doubled during this construction period. In any event, it is necessary to review all contracts, as well as the legal viability and usefulness of all contracts, both with the main contractor, with equipment suppliers and with subcontractors. On the basis of the report, it is possible to decide whether to continue the project or to seek any other solution. Given that we are talking about the guarantee today, but we are not talking about the whole project, it is clear, of course, that the 11 million annual savings, which results in the effect of the European Investment Bank's loan or loan, are, after all, few for the project, despite the fact that this value has doubled to 1.3 billion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will await the final definition of this project in all the reports made by the competent institutions and the government on the basis of this report. The Coalition Treaty states that this government will support this project, with a fundamental audit and supervision of the implementation of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u48	Nicely greeted! President, I'm asking if it makes sense to continue because there is no one from the government, there are no ministers, there is nothing, and we say something to ourselves here. Do you want me to continue anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u49	Here you go. We'll move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u50	If you don't have to, you can go outside. In the Social Democracy, the majority of Members support the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for a long-term loan obligation of €440 million, leased by the Termoelectrica Šostanj. This credit shall be leased to the European Investment Bank to finance the replacement block project 6, power 600 MW, at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. The issue of the guarantee is necessary because, otherwise, the State will have to write down almost a billion of its assets and by recapitalisation provide around 450 million for the so-called revitalization of Blocks 4 and 5 in the TEC and contribute close to 300 million assets under specific coal-locking laws. The adoption of the law guarantee and the lending of a loan to the European Investment Bank is economically most prudent because EIB loans provide the most favourable loans. Although the novelty of the energy law allows for the possibility of TES setting up facilities as collateral for credit, the price of credit would be significantly higher than it would have been if the loan was secured by the State guarantee. However, the additional financial burdens of the project result in a higher electricity price or a worsening of the investment economy. The direct financial impact of the State guarantee debt is 2.5% lower the interest rate on the loan by EUR 440 million, amounting to EUR 11 million per year. On the basis of a practical calculation for a 25-year loan, this means that the loan of EUR 180 million will be lower than the non-guaranteed loan for TES 6. The adoption of the proposed law will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, by which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the EIB lender's liabilities under the loan contract. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the main condition for drawing up a loan of EUR 440 million, which will allow the TES to continue its investment in a smooth manner. However, in principle, in Social Democracy we support the additional conditions laid down by the Government with regard to the approval of the guarantee for TES 6. In any case, we agree with the investor to negotiate with all suppliers with a view to reducing the value of the revised investment programme number 4 – this is a billion EUR 302 million – and they are as close as possible to the value of the also updated investment programme number 3, with all costs, including the costs of connecting water, to be included in the electricity system. It is also logical that a contract on long-term supply of lignite must be concluded between Coal Velenje and Termoelectrica Šostanj before the approval of the State guarantee at the maximum price of the new investment programme No 4 at the maximum price, according to 2.25 euros per giga joule. For all of this, the majority of the members of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for a long-term loan of EUR 440 million leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj d.o.o. to the European Investment Bank to finance the replacement block project of EUR 6 power 600 MW at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj in the first reading. However, I expect the coalition or the government to prepare proposals for amendments that will take into account the additional conditions of the government on the guarantee law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before continuing the general debate, I would like to inform you that I have received a notice from Minister Cernač, who apologizes for having had to attend the government meeting. However, the Secretary of State is on a business trip abroad. In the general debate, Minister Cernač is expected to join us after the end of the government's meeting. I propose that we continue with the general debate of Members and Members. Procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to continue the meeting of the National Assembly. The relevant representative shall be present at the meeting. As we presented the views of the parliamentary groups, we have waited patiently for the announced presence of Minister Montenegro to take place. However, before the debate continues, Members and Members, I am procedurally proposing that we suspend the meeting until the Minister is present at this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u53	In view of the fact that the law has been tabled by a group of Members for consideration by the National Assembly, the Government is not a proposer in this case, so its presence or the presence of government representatives is not necessary. But I certainly have to agree with you to be desirable and appropriate. The excuses given by the Government seem justified to me and we expect the Minister to join us as soon as possible. I propose that we continue, and before that, Mr Möderndorfer is obviously procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u54	Mr President, I am truly sorry, but my colleague has made a very clear proposal. We're talking about a marriage that's been filed, a guarantee of 440 million, and we're talking about things that aren't just like that. And if the government doesn't have time, we understand them and we respect them, but let's stop, let's wait. It's nothing wrong if he can't. They have obligations, they have a meeting and they will finish. But let's stick to one rule. Parliamentary practice shows very clearly that these things need to be respected, because otherwise I will consider that there is no parliamentary practice here and that "the book" should follow the rules of procedure. But the book is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. One more suggestion, apparently. Mr. Weber, do you have a procedure? [[advertising from the hall]] The absence of a representative of the Government or of another motion for a case at a meeting of the National Assembly shall not constitute a commercial reason for the suspension of the meeting. I think and reiterate that the reasons why the Government is absent are very justified and justified. Once again, we expect the representatives of the Government to attend the next meeting, we are holding a general debate and I propose that we continue unless you have a procedural proposal again, Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Now, if not the other, I expect the President to put a procedural proposal to the vote. My procedural proposal was for the meeting to be suspended until the Minister arrived at the National Assembly Hall. I hope I made myself clear! This is a procedural proposal, on which at least, I expect us to vote and procedurally request that you vote on this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u57	I agree that we will put this proposal to the vote, but I propose that we suspend the meeting in 15 minutes before this vote. I am adjourning the meeting for 15 minutes and we are voting or continuing the meeting at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. We have a procedural proposal to suspend the meeting until the government's representatives arrive. I will put this procedural proposal to the vote. Does any of the leaders of the parliamentary groups wish to discuss this procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I'd like you to check on the voting devices. I propose to put to the vote that the meeting be suspended until the participation or the arrival of representatives of the Government. We vote on the decision. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 31. Against 31. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 31.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We're moving on to the session. The general debate will be held between Members and Members. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Procedurally, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, President. In view of the fact that we are reunited with the total ignorance of the Government, both to the part of the National Assembly and to the social dialogue, I propose that you convene a meeting of the College, at which, in accordance with Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure, we agree who will be able to represent the Government in this Chamber at this point of the agenda. The information was, I think the Secretary of State is abroad, and if nothing else, perhaps at least this business arrangement could be used and looked into whether the College could agree on how this meeting could proceed. It seems irresponsible to me that the Government, at the point of the agenda, which is one of the most important points in this reference, I hope the words of the National Assembly, when we decide on the Velenje Coal, when we decide on the Šostjanje Termoelectrica when we decide on the energy destiny, I will also say Slovenia, there is no appropriate representative of the Government. I propose that you convene the College and agree on who will represent the Government in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and this Article, which somehow also allows us to try to reach agreement on at least that minimum standard of government relations with the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you. Dear Mr. Webber, just so we can understand each other. The Rules of Procedure on who can represent the Government are clear. And the Government is also obliged to say exactly who will present it in every proposal it sends to the National Assembly. At the College, we agreed that only those mentioned as government representatives could represent or represent the Government in the National Assembly. The rules of business which would provide that the Government should be present at the meeting of the National Assembly are not such mandatory procedural reasons for the suspension of the meeting, and that is why I have put this decision to the vote. Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u61	The President of the National Assembly, I'm glad it's your time to be in charge of the meeting. I think it's because you're going to take some responsibility. I hope that you are all aware together, Members and Members of Parliament, especially you, President of the National Assembly, because you are responsible for this work, that you are introducing a new practice into this Parliament, because this way that we have these chairs empty and the law, for which it is so strange that the Members have proposed it, we are discussing in a Chamber where the place dedicated to the Government is empty. I think that for hygiene reasons, not procedural, hygiene reasons, we should stop the meeting as President, also allow the Government to monitor this discussion, and thus show very clearly who the legislative body is in fact in this country. And I think that with today and this decision, you will also make it clear how the discussions will take place and how the government will adapt and regulate its timetable accordingly. I hope that the country will not allow Parliament to adapt to the government, but it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. The government is to blame for not having representatives here, which means that the debate will take place without it. The bill is sent, Members and Members will also decide on this proposal and what more can be said at this time. I cannot use the right to interrupt the meeting, so I have put the proposal to the vote. The proposal has not been voted on and we will continue the general debate of Members and Members. Mr Bevk has his word first, and Mr. Bojan Starman is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Indeed, it is not understandable why an authorised representative of the Government or the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economics is not participating today at the meeting of the National Assembly. This project to build block 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant was set up by the government, which took responsibility for the leadership of the state on 10 February this year. In 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 and listed as one of these projects the construction project of Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj. It is known who the Minister of Finance was, in 2006, who was the Minister of Economy or Energy, who was the Minister of the Environment, and who was the Prime Minister of the Government, who was the representatives of those parties who today make up the government coalition, from the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia. In addition, the project for the construction of TEŠ 6 in this project is also a project for the construction of a chain of power plants on the lower Sava, the construction of a pumping hydroelectric power plant Kozjak and the construction of the block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. This is in these projects for the period 2007-2023, adopted by the previous Janšev government. From this point of view, it is really incomprehensible to me why there are no competent ministers or government representatives sitting here to present a project they set up six years ago. I support the guarantee, and I also support this project. I would also like to say that Slovenia has an almost optimal electricity supply structure, one-third is produced in thermal power plants, one-third is produced in the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and one-third is produced in our hydropower plants. Without investments in the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant – in Block 6, blocks 4 and 5 would be shut down around 2030 without having an alternative for 30% of electricity from thermal power plants. Of course, it could be an alternative from other sources, such as wind power plants or other similar potentials, but we know how it is with these alternative sources of electricity, since at least the wind power plant in our country has been placed in space for decades and not one has been built. As of 2030, this investment would have run out of real alternatives, and in the long term it brings stable electricity supply to our country. Without this investment, we should close the Velenje Coal. That cost wouldn't be that small. It is estimated that at least EUR 300 million should be provided for the closure of Velenje Coalmine, even if this is not a small one. None of the issues relating to the Šostanj Thermoelectrica or the construction of Block 6 are cheap, and the closure of the huge mine would cost this country more than EUR 300 million. I would also like to point out that elsewhere in the world some mines have been very unprofessionally closed. Let me just remind you of the mines in France in Lorena at the end of the 1980s, when they simply closed the mine and had to be repaired today. It is as large an area as almost all of our Primorska, and this France today costs very, very much. And it would have happened with us without that investment. As a matter of fact, I support this project. Nothing about this project is cheap, and the most expensive would be the interruption of construction in the middle of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Starman, behind him is Mr. Joseph Horvath. Mr Starman is not here right now, so Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word and the mag behind him. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is no wonder that we are discussing electricity and that this is also the case with the electricity atmosphere. I miss a few more piettes to the dead. When a Member decides on such a difficult subject, it is certain that it collects information from various sources. The idea came to me first to look at what the Council for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Slovenia said about TES 6. Last but not least, the National Assembly established it by law and the Environmental Protection Council said in connection with the construction of Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj: "The Council for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Slovenia in the new composition joins the opinion of the NGO that the Government should immediately organise a broad debate on at least two scenarios for the development of the energy sector in terms of the sustainable design of the overall development of Slovenia and only on this basis design a debate on the national energy programme as a comprehensive national important and multi-layer energy environmental document." Thus, the Council protects the environment of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 February last year. I wasn't there, and I don't know if the previous government did this. If it is not, then the former government has ignored this world and in some ways abolished it. And what's next, what I'm listening to and where I'm gathering information for my good decision? Of course I'm listening to our cousin, our Commissioner, Dr. Janez Potočnik, about TES 6. He says: "Every country has the right to decide for itself on the energy mix, but each country has also committed itself to common objectives at European level." We know you, I won't repeat them because I'm running out of time. New targets are also announced after 2020, a reduction of 8 to 95% of CO2 emissions. This power plant is likely to be in operation at the time. These are the key questions I'm asking myself, how are we going to get into low-carbon society? I'm asking myself questions about the viability of this facility. And many more questions are being asked, which, due to the lack of time, I simply cannot answer, and I will also decide on my decision in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, followed by Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will support this guarantee law. If I listed some arguments as quick as a matrix: the economic aspect is positive, the energy aspect is positive, the public financial aspect is negative, the environmental aspect is negative, the strategic aspect of energy, although unfortunately the national energy strategy has not yet been produced and it would be much better if we could work together and place this national energy strategy, the socio-economic employment aspect positive, the political aspect positive, the carbon tax negative, the cheaper investment positive. If I made such a quick decision after these arguments I would say 6:3 that I am in favour of this investment. I just want to warn you about something. The State will make a guarantee to TES 6. The owner of TES 6 is HSE, 100% owner. However, 100 % of the owners of HSE are state-owned. This is said not to occur in the coming years of any property transformation in HSE and TES 6 and that this guarantee would remain on the back of the country and these two companies would be privatised. That's when it's important to keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u68	Mr. Lucky Meh, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u69	When we talk about building block 6, there are, of course, a number of questions from this point of view, which we could or should answer, why block 6. But first of all, building block 6 is actually a professional decision and a problem that had to be decided by the profession. The profession first from the point of view of energy need, then of course the economic profession, and the environmental profession also decided on other professions. And all of this was necessary for us to come to an assessment that this investment would begin. Then there's someone here who needs to tell. It's the Slovenian government. And the Slovenian government did it because within energy it assessed all the parameters. On the basis of these parameters, she concluded that such an energy facility was necessary. The guarantee is, of course, in view of the fact that, at least according to my information, it has been agreed from the outset that this guarantee will be useful and that we will take credits from those banks that can give the cheapest loans in Europe. There are no or very few companies that could obtain EUR 400 and EUR 600 million from the European Investment Bank and the European Development Bank during this period, i.e. from the two banking institutions that are dedicated to this. I'm sure none of these banks will make that money look good. We did not need a guarantee from one bank and at least one part of that loan was needed from the other bank. That is why, of course, the ventilation of the programmes themselves was already large enough from these banks. Of course, it was also possible to rent commercial loans. Under some conditions, I can't say that. I have only participated in public debates about how to obtain some kind of credit and was only involved as one of the inhabitants of the Shale Valley, perhaps more responsible than anyone else. But in any way, these guarantees required other cooperation, including in the property of the Heat Power Plant or energy plant itself. However, allow some answers or some opinions. I don't think I'm an energy person. But I spent most of my working life in energy. And if I can answer any question, then I can take full responsibility, because I have worked in this area too, and this has also been demonstrated by external institutions that coal is enough for Block 6. Those who doubted that then demanded that we do international research, that we did a lot of costs, so that HSE or Coal Velenje could prove that coal was sufficient. And that's what we have in white. All those who doubt it can certainly read it. I can't say anything more about profitability than that it's a project that will pay off the investment in 20 years. That's enough coal. The coal miners claim that 2.25 euros for giga joules is achievable and will achieve that. They're making investments in this direction in the coal mine. If we looked at this book that we have, I believe, all Members and Members of Parliament have received, we would find that the Council of State has held an important debate and that there are some extremely important conclusions in there that they say are professional. I read what it says here: "The profession is not even on a global scale at commercial level capable of offering better technology than is proposed, foreseen and is now already in construction at TES6. However, it is wrong to believe that in the absence of construction of Block 6 in Šostjan, production would not continue and that nothing would have to be done at that time." If block 6 is not built, block 4 and block 5 should operate under significantly poor performance and also with significantly greater environmental impacts. Someone said there was no agreement. All the consents TES needs was obtained by TES. We can read them here, too. First, in December 2006, the Slovenian Power Plant Holding Development Plan was adopted at a meeting of the Slovenian Government for equipment worth €600 million. At the time, only equipment was worth 600 million euros, and the Slovenian government accepted that at the time. Of course, we are talking about the decisions of those who were responsible for such a decision. The speech was that the financial structure was not closed. Of course, the financial structure is closed. In addition to both credits, there will be their own resources and commercial loans to be leased by Holding Slovenian Power Plants. Someone also spoke today about the possibility that this could be an investment. The stake is in the event that the project is stopped. But if we don't stop the project, it can't be a hit-and-run investment. It is therefore so important that we continue this project and that we can also answer all the questions. Social Democrats, you have heard this from the point of view, we do not have a unified position in support of this project, because there are several different opinions on what might happen in block 6 area. And we haven't been able to unify that either within the Social Democracy. But supporting the construction of Block 6 is support for the guarantee we should get. Let me say one more thing about the division of opponents and advocates. Of course, this occurs on every issue that we put into public space, and that is also the case. However, it would be right to hold an argumentated debate and to respond to individual opinions, views, arguments and arguments, to those who are aware of this. If someone asked me and said there wasn't enough coal in Velenje Coal, I'd tell him that 2 000 500 caves were built in Velenje Coal and that we checked the amount of coal and the quality of coal through this well every day. So I assure you that coal is more than we've written, because of course it's an operational stock. However, I cannot answer those questions where I do not know the matter myself, so it would be appropriate for experts to answer or agree. There's something else about corruption and intransparency. Of course, there can be a lot of talk about the possibility of corruption within such a large project that the project can be untransparent. But I agree with those of you who have said, spoken and said that someone is responsible for controlling the project, i.e. Holding the Slovenian power plants in the first place, the supervisory advisors are here and then the state institutions. And let the state institutions say what's wrong with sanctioning them to answer. But because someone thinks and is convinced that computer equipment has been wrongly bought, someone has to answer for it, to return, to do, to square it. But we can't stop the project if someone made a mistake if someone did a corrupt act, which, of course, has to be proved. However, experts ensure that there are no professional errors, that real technology, real investment in the right place, and that this investment is in fact to be supported. And I thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, after him is Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the guarantee of TEŠ 6 and thus the decision on how to provide electricity in Slovenia. If I support the guarantee, it does not mean that I support all the irregularities, any irregularities that have occurred. I am talking about possible irregularities, because this is the responsibility of those who control and those who own TES, and this is through HSE also the country. And today, again, I cannot support the country's or the government that is not here and ignores this assembly and also ignores getting information about what construction is like or what we think about construction. Therefore, there were also various insinuations in the public as to whether or not construction was necessary for the country. Today we have heard that as early as 2003 we started to think about the renovation of TEŠ 6, the renovation of the Termoelectric power plant Šoštanj and that we started investment or contracts and planning already in 2006. Here, all three governments, or two, were included in this investment. And that they were unable to determine in these years whether the investment is relevant for Slovenia, I am really worried. Today it has also been said that we have not revised the energy national programme. Yes, of course not, and if this were, we wouldn't have much trouble today and we would have much less problems in further construction, because we would know what we want and then we would know how to find a way. The guarantee law, as I said, will be supported because I want a smooth supply of electricity for everyone in Slovenia, because I want independent electricity supply, because we have no alternatives, we have no alternative but imports. But here we would depend on traders, as we are now, and you could change the price of electricity as they would have wanted, or what kind of need we would have to have, and we would have to pay for it. Not just us, but all the citizens in this country. I'll back my decision for you with a few professional conclusions. Coal is the only resource in fossil talks that will remain the longest in the energy market due to the high level of stocks worldwide. Proven reserves, I tell those who are so afraid that there are no reserves, according to the 2009 calculations, they reach 729 trillion tonnes. At the current level of operation and state of energy reserves surveyed according to BRG data, we have 24% of the world's oil, 17% of gas, 2.4% of uranium and thorium, and 53.8% of all coals. Slovenia has only coal from fossil energy sources. Therefore, stocks and the exploitation of coal in Slovenia should be dealt with as rationally as possible. Since the European Union does not control oil and gas markets, the risks of supply for our area are extremely high. Despite all the economic and environmental weaknesses of coal, the European Union will not significantly reduce current consumption. The European Union's dependence on imports of fossil fuels will increase significantly by 2030. Fossil fuels remain the dominant primary global energy source and represent more than three quarters of the projected increase in total consumption by 2030. Coal is mainly devoted to the energy sector or electricity production, an increase in consumption by 2035 is foreseen at an annual level of around 2.2 %. The scope and effectiveness of the strategic measures to prevent climate change remains a major factor that cannot be forecasted for the future direction of development of the coal market and cannot be phased out in any scenario in the world. Joint efforts to combat climate change, as we are currently witnessing around the world, with the development of new technologies in energy include using CCS technology, this speaks of carbon capture and storage, reducing CO2 emissions by less than 1.5%. Balancing sustainable development, competitiveness and security of supply means for Europe to enter the new energy period. The global economic regions depend on each other to ensure security of energy supply and stable economic conditions and to ensure effective action against climate change. Access to energy is essential in the everyday life of every European. The fundamental objective of Slovenian electricity is to maximise self-sustainment with electricity and to exploit effective synergies by upgrading the balanced structure of energy resources. At least that's how it's supposed to be. That's what we planned. Now we have one third of the power from hydro power plants, one third from the nuclear power plant and one third from the thermal power plant Shostanj. But we know what's going on. We felt it this year. More drought has resulted in electricity supply from the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant up to 45 %. The use of coal in TES 6 will be in line with the environmental obligations of the European Union and our country. The combustion plant in TES 6 will have a high efficiency. This is 43% of BAT technology. The mitigation commitments from the climate and energy package will be met within the framework of the European Union's requirements. In line with the needs in the TES, the harmonised amount of annual coal production from the Coal of Velenje until 2054. Professional analyses and all the research, as my colleague Srečko said, say that coal in Velenje is for at least 50 years, that the cave of Šostjanj will not be opened at all. After 2014, the original price of coal from Velenje Coal will be 2.25 euros per giga joule. The arguments in favour of the investment in TES 6 can be summarized into the following points. First time. Sufficient amounts of coal from Velenje Coal at a competitive price, taking into account all costs. If I just comfort those who say we can import. The prices of imported coal today amount to 4 euros per giga joule without transport costs. Another time. Block 6 will be built according to BAT technology with 43% efficiency. Third time. The investment is in full swing and will be significantly less harmful to the environment than blocks 4 and 5. Fourth time. The investment ensures security and security in the supply of electricity to Slovenia. The investment builds on a balanced structure of electricity production in Slovenia. Fifth. The energy location is supported, that's very important, by the inhabitants of the Shale Valley. Even though we have been exposed to major pollution for a number of years, we now have those environmentalists who would care for us with TER 6, when this would be substantially reduced or minimised. 20, 30 years ago, there's none of it out there. In Europe, the majority of countries support domestic energy sources, including coal. And why would we give up this source or the only source that's still available to us? I would like to conclude by stressing that all investments in new energy facilities in Slovenia and also in Europe have reached greater energy, environmental and economic efficiency. We shouldn't have stopped them on this road. So once again, I will support the guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec, followed by Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Once again, the guarantee law, which was before us in October 2011, is not, therefore, one year from this, rejected in the National Assembly. I must say that we also discussed a lot at the time why we would support this and why we should not support it and refer to the various studies presented to us and which were also the basis for the drafting of this law by a fellow Member. It should be borne in mind that this guarantee law would probably not be necessary if the price of this block 6 of the thermal power plant did not increase during the period when it appeared as an energy supply facility for Slovenia. We are talking about a number of significant increases mainly in the field and in the equipment segment. If we look at construction works in 2006 and compare them with the revised programme, there is virtually no derogation, they are in the same frame, in the 80 million. However, if we compare the equipment that was in the investment programme, which was the basis for the placement and that we initially supported the project in uniform, EUR 503 million, and it has grown to practically a billion, there is a huge difference. And there's probably a reserve in there that the current government and the previous one sees somehow, and that's also given the task to all the entities that care about this investment to find a reduction, they say they negotiate at a lower price. This signal, which was also used for the first loan at the time when this investment programme was still in some normal 900 million framework, is an indication that the investment was probably manageable at the time and was within the framework that they also know in the European Union and therefore no guarantee was required for the EBRD loan. Thus, the guarantee came to this Parliament and also to the government at a time when the investment was very much underwhelmed. Now, in this case, we can speculate in a variety of ways why. However, it is likely that the studies commissioned and the audits will find answers and thus enable us to decide whether or not this increase was justified or not. And in some ways, those who have made decisions in this regard, perhaps even on the brink of legality, may be able to answer. However, it is likely that the answers to the remaining questions, which have been raised several times in the past, in particular as regards coal stocks, coal prices, have been clarified and several times already defined. I think that in the last updated programme time and time limits are now defined. Regarding CO2 emissions, however, my predecessor made it clear in the documents that the new block in this case is in a way much, much better than the existing two blocks, which cause significantly higher emissions. It has been repeatedly warned that the Government does not monitor this. I think the Government is still aware of the importance of self-sustainment and of the importance of the decision in this case. However, the Government will decide on the basis of the facts and on the basis of the documents it will have to obtain through the audits, not on the basis of our debate, such or otherwise. I think it's clear that she's going to need specific documents on this. It would also be much easier to decide if the national energy programme had already been adopted, but not yet. It must be made clear, however, that, even in the European space, world things are changing rapidly and that such frameworks can usually be questioned in the event of a decision. There was a discussion that this was a resolution project. Of course, it was a resolution project, but it is necessary to know that the resolution projects were put into this programme on the basis of initiatives from the economy, but not as a government or a team's wish, which consisted of a resolution programme. Thus, such a project, such as a thermal power plant or a major power plant, cannot be installed from today to tomorrow and this procedure has probably lasted much longer than we speak today, since 2006. The placement of such facilities usually takes several years, or more than ten years, to make things happen. There is much talk about the fact that there are many alternative sources, that we have opportunities with wind energy, solar energy, but we must be aware that these resources, which can also be used through the appropriate instruments offered by the European Union for renewable sources, are in some way limited. It is necessary to know that we still need both nuclear and thermal power plants and at least gas power plants for smooth supply, because we have come to realize that the debate has also been held in the National Assembly – how we have lost some self-sustainment in the field of food or food supply. We are also acting in the same way in the field of energy. When renewables such as power plants such as wind power plants, hydropower and similar resources are to be placed, we have a number of comments when the matter needs to be resolved. In this case, the power plant has somehow settled through a transparent process and the local community has almost overwhelmingly supported the project, which is usually a larger problem with convincing the environment than others. Here are quite a few arguments that confirm that this project must continue with all the concerns and questions raised both by Members in the debate and by the Government, which has clearly set out the starting points and conditions under which we can continue to discuss whether the guarantee is issued or not. The reduction of CO2 emissions, where we are talking about directives and it is likely that a further price from such thermal energy facilities will also depend on the sale of CO2 coupons and on the stock market, which is likely to be established once, but this is not an argument to reject it at this point. In the future, own resources will certainly be one of the important frameworks that the state must provide both in the field of other supply and in the field of energy, as market dependence will quickly prove to be a major problem in the case of a smaller economy. On my part, it is still a dilemma whether to support the guarantee law at this time, and certainly rejecting this investment or suspending and stopping this project is the worst solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber, followed by Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar. There is no Mr. Vebra, Mr. Zanoskar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! When it comes to the Law on the guarantee of the Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj, TŠ 6, then let me say first of all that I support this guarantee, but I also understand some Members and Members, including Members of the Group, who have doubts about this law and doubts about this process. It seems perfectly legitimate and legal to me that a group of Members is proposing a guarantee law, although I think it would be more realistic or more normal if such a law were proposed by the government, the one that adopted an energy development strategy in our country in 2006 and in which it defined TES 6 as an important energy facility, is also important for our sovereignty and energy supply in Slovenia. Today's criticism has been voiced several times, and I would personally agree with this criticism that when we talk about such an important project and so important responsibilities, which will follow in the financial field, there are no government representatives. It seems to me that in some way the Government is running away from responsibility, leaving the Group of Members to table a proposal for a guarantee law, they are not involved in this and are waiting for what will happen, and in this way they do not take full responsibility. It is known that energy and the energy future are in what some colleagues and colleagues have already said that we do not have many other alternatives. Resources such as – the nuclear power plant is already on the very black list, and we do not agree with hydro power plants on some Slovenian rivers, we also know that we do not like wind power plants and windmills. In the end, what has been argued in many of today's debates is that it is one of the possibilities, and probably the real possibilities, Thermoelectrica 6, by showing that all the analyses have shown both in the issue of the building permit and in the issue of all environmental consent, that the facility we place on the site of the TEŠ 4 and TŠ 5 thermoelectric power plants is acceptable. It is also argued that the coal stock is such that it will be able to service this thermal power plant in the future. Not to mention the sociological and social aspect that affects not only the Shaleška and the part of Savinja Valley, it also has a major impact on the Koroška area. There are a lot of jobs here and a lot of people who drive from Koroška are employed in the mine and the thermal power plant Šostanj. Thus, in this respect, the project that is prepared is absolutely acceptable. To raise so many doubts today about whether to support the guarantee or not, it is probably also the fault that the Government has not yet provided clear analyses to date, in which it would be more precisely defined and described what has happened to the thermoelectric power plant and TES 6 to date. We all know that many imagined that it was a bag of money that could be taken from. I also do not rule out the opportunity on which some have taken advantage of the fact that today the anti-corruption commission has to deal with some odd business. However, this is not yet the argument that would have led to the termoelectric power plant Šostanj or TEŠ 6 being defined as an object as an unnecessary project. I am convinced that a more detailed analysis of the investment programme, on the basis of which the Government should determine whether there is still eligibility on the basis of prices as presented, or not, whether, on the basis of the investment programme or the eligibility study, a number of things could be modified and corrected in a more favourable direction, then there would be a lot more arguments for the adoption of the guarantee today. After all, the guarantee is not yet the obligation that will affect the State, the guarantee is only a risk that the State accepts and the guarantee is implemented when the entire energy facility, based on the eligibility study, would not be able to carry out or pay all the credit annuity it will receive for the construction. It is my opinion that the cessation of the implementation of TES 6 would be very wrong. He has already caused a lot of problems and a financial gap, and it is likely that this gap would increase further. After all, when we look at our energy independence and independence, I am totally in favour of TES 6 continuing. I am not disturbed by those lobbyists who come from the European Union who speak against the construction of TES 6. For me, these lobbyists are nothing more than sent from some other European countries who are rooting for us to be energyless in the future, so that they can sell their energy, surplus or any electricity to us for the price they would set. Even so, the letters circulated through our portals and computers in the National Assembly do not convince me of this. I am still convinced that TES 6 is a national project that needs to be revitalised, reviewed and continued. This is our national interest, which absolutely guarantees us energy independence. Let me conclude by fully supporting TES 6 and today’s guarantee law on the basis of all the arguments cited, as well as my personal conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you. She was reported as a mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, but she is not with us, so Mr Roman Jakič has the word and Mr Matevž Frangež is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I can't help but start or really respond to the government's ignorant attitude, which, with cynicism and its magnificence, ignores the National Assembly. But perhaps it is already the function of this government to ignore the social partners, to ignore the profession, but it has also found that the National Assembly is necessarily evil or some non-digatious. It grieves me more, of course, that we assist the Government or that it assists the Government, also the President of the National Assembly and the ruling coalition, and does not adhere to Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks about the participation of the Government in the work of the National Assembly, which is very clear. Article 235 states that ministers or State secretaries must be present at the meeting of the National Assembly and only if you look at paragraph 5 if the Minister and the Secretary of State are detained because of obligations in the institutions of the European Union or because of international obligations may replace them. Unfortunately, the government's meeting is not an international obligation and the government's representative could be here. Perhaps it is also because Mr Cernač, the Energy Minister, has always stressed – and his latest statements place the responsibility on others – that the TES 6 project is not run by the Government or by the Ministry, so those who adopt the guarantee law are said to be the State Assembly. It seems to me that running away from a 440 million-million-dollar responsibility not to speak of this country's energy strategy, not to mention the flight of thousands of 300 people who are directly employed both in the mine and in the thermal power plant, is irresponsible. I must say, this cynicism, as I said, is unprecedented in this government. The demand of people in Velenj and in the region is legitimate as far as I am concerned. People are afraid to lose jobs and dots. This fear, of course, is great, and it seems to me that it is right for colleagues in the National Assembly to listen to their region and that they have tabled this law. What bothers me in all this, and so I will finally tell you my decision, is that in fact Slovenia has not done a comprehensive development, social and environmental responsible strategic debate on the long-term eligibility of building block 6. In fact, this discussion has not been carried out. I expected that in this new mandate, I also suggested that some colleagues should have a broad debate, as well as a public presentation of opinions and scenarios on the development of the energy sector, of course also as a basis for the preparation of the national energy strategy. Another thing that bothers me. Today our Commissioner, Comrade Potočnik, was quoted as saying in fact that each country has the right to create its own energy policy. But colleague Horvat, who has taken this well, said that common objectives at European level should also be pursued. Let me just remind you that the Council of State, the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, has also given a green light to the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency for the future. In this energy efficiency, thermal power plants are being questioned. And the government, here the government has taken its position, stating that it is impossible to set up thermal power plants that would also produce electricity for the export and destimulated operation of those thermal power plants that are already exporting. It is said that in 2020 this should also be TEZ 6, they were written in government documents. This means that the Government already knows in advance that with the provision that greenhouse gases should be reduced by 80% to 95% after 2020, it will have a major problem with TES 6. I have another question that comes to me, and therefore I do not understand that the Government is proposing this to Members, it is important to note that the procedure followed by which this law is being amended does not take into account all the activities normally carried out in order to ensure the State guarantee. There is also no negotiation of a guarantee contract, which is in accordance with the Foreign Affairs Act under the international legal framework. The International Treaty is an international agreement, which, of course, is concluded in writing between the bodies of international law. The international treaty, as I said, must be concluded in writing and the Government must decide on the initiative. Thus, the Government should also come to Parliament for this guarantee by means of a guarantee law in international law or by ratifying an international agreement. My friend Stephnik gave me some points when he talked about it. Plus he gave economic aspects, energy aspects, public financial aspects he gave a minus, environmental aspects he gave a minus due to the fact that we are very much discussing public finance issues, in fact, the question arises to me – given that almost certain or most public financial experts say that investors, in this case HSE and TES, will not be able to bear this financial burden, that these guarantees will fall on taxpayers' backs, into the budget. [[...]] We are always talking about the golden fiscal rule, the levelling of this budget, but we do not know whether this 440 million will arrive, then we have a guarantee of 3 billion euros for Dars – what this public financial aspect will be like in the future. These are open questions that mix feelings in a person, whether or not to support the guarantee. In this vote, I will abstain, but I would suggest that the Government report every three months or a quarter of the work force on what is going on. Here I agree with a colleague who says that the prosecution of corrupt acts identified by the anti-corruption commission should have some epilogue. Someone has to find responsibility, including responsibility I was before I came here, the director of a public agency and I should not have happened to get three times the amount I had planned in my financial plan of my public office when I was talking about spending because the public office world would immediately replace me. [[...]] In Alstom, however, only the installation of equipment, for example, increased by three times as much as planned. I therefore plead: for the first time, for responsibility; for the second time, for a public debate that will remove all these suspicions of entitlement or injustice, let the Government ensure that it has this under control and that it knows what will happen if the guarantee is cashed, what will continue with this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you. I also welcome among us the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač. I would particularly like to point out, Sir Jakič, that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would not be violated. 235. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of who represents the Government before the National Assembly, and this Article does not provide for any other provision that the absence of representatives of the Government would be a procedural obstacle to the course of the meeting. The fact that the Government is not present can be said by everyone. You also said it, but it is not a procedural obstacle, I would even say that I went a little too far with you when I put a procedural proposal to the vote, for which I have received criticism from the services. There was no basis for me even to be this procedural proposal for a vote, which was then voted on. Mr Minister may be involved in the debate at any time. I think that's what he wanted. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! I do not want procedural issues to cloud the importance of deciding on the law you have today on the agenda. At this point, you will decide on the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for liabilities from a long-term loan of EUR 440 million leased by the Termoelectrica Šostanj, d.o.o., to the European Investment Bank, to finance the project of building a replacement block of 6 megawatts at the Termoelectrica Šostanj, submitted by a group of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the first-signed Mr Srečko Mehom on 2 February this year. Thus, the Government is not the proposer of this law, as you have rightly established, but is the proposer of this law a group of Members. And we're talking about the guarantee, so on behalf of the government, the Ministry of Finance is competent. However, I am here today because of the fact that all colleagues are absent because of international and other obligations, as has already been explained; the Minister of Finance for International Obligations, one Secretary of State for International Obligations, the other Secretary of State for Government meetings, and also I have not been able to attend this meeting in due time because of the fact that I came to the National Assembly, the government meeting was held and the Secretary of State at our Ministry was absent due to international obligations. The Rules of Procedure do not allow anyone other than the Minister or the Secretary of State to represent the views of the Government in front of this high house. I think it's right that we cleared these things up. It's not a matter of underestimation. It is an objective fact that, according to the novel, the government has also rationalised that there are now 6 less ministers. As you can see, there are fewer other officials, which means that we are all a little bit more involved in the work and a little bit more involved. That's why I'm counting on you to accept our absence in the future. However, we will never miss the opportunity to express our views and opinions on the issue under consideration. The Government faced this problem before time and on the basis of the comprehensive information it addressed at the 3rd regular meeting on 23 February 2012, which informed it and concluded that the project was being implemented that the supply contracts for equipment were concluded, that the costs already incurred in the project and the potential compensation resulting from the withdrawal from the contracts already concluded were so high that they constituted a significant financial threat to the stabilisation of public finances. On the basis of all these findings, the State or Government has made a decision in relation to its opinion on this law between the two most unoptimal options: it has chosen between the two at least bad. On the basis of all the risks and all that has been provided in the framework of comprehensive information on this project by 2012, a position or opinion has been adopted that additional risks to the issue of the guarantee for that project can be assumed and that the proposal for a law submitted by Mr Meh to the parliamentary procedure can be supported if four or five conditions are met. The first condition that was laid down is that the investor has to negotiate with all suppliers with a view to reducing the value of the nilverised investment programme 4, this value is somewhere in the amount of €300 million, and must bring these values as close as possible to the values of the nilverised investment programme 3, which means that this value should be reduced by around €100 million. In doing so, all costs, including, for example, the costs of connecting water to the electricity system, and any other costs required for the operation of the TEM6 must be included in the final value. Furthermore, the following condition was laid down that before the approval of the State guarantee, before the final conclusion of this law, a contract on long-term supply of lignite was concluded at the maximum price of the failed investment programme 4. The following condition was that the investor must ensure the completion of the project in accordance with the attached deadline plan, which means that the usable authorisation must be obtained by 15 February 2016 at the latest. The following condition was that CO2 emissions should be limited in accordance with the investment programme and the latter that the investor must ensure the profitability of the project in accordance with the energy sector policy. This latter condition is likely to be one of the most demanding but feasible conditions, but it allows if it is ensured that the country will not be exposed to the risks of cashing out the guarantee. If these objectives are met and all conditions are met, normal repayment and financing of the entire investment value will be possible within the framework of the operation of this project. In addition, the Government is at one of the previous meetings when it addressed the report on this project, which was the 2nd regular meeting of 16. 2nd this year, orders the Ministry of Energy to carry out appropriate procedures for the exercise of responsibility for identified irregularities and deficiencies in the project by 30 April of this year at the latest on the basis of the audits already carried out for the preparation of the TES 6 project and on the basis of the NIP 4 review report. These procedures are under way, the reports are in final stages. On the basis of the decision adopted at the 2nd meeting of the Government, appropriate procedures and mechanisms for the exercise of responsibility will also be launched, which will not in itself lead to the fulfilment of this objective as set out in the Government Decision of 23. 2. So the objectives of the project's appreciation. In particular, I would like to point out that the Government, when deciding on the guarantee, was before an extremely difficult issue, which was not easy because we are deciding in 2012 and not in 2008 or 2009. If it were to be written today in 2009, at least two or more good alternatives could probably be available. Today, in 2012, we have, as I said earlier, before us – according to the way this project was run, which was not good, it was bad, uneconomic, irrational, in my personal opinion, it is not possible to lead such high-level, large-scale projects in such an uneconomic and irrational way. And even in the future, everything must be done so that they are no longer guided in this way. But no matter what, today we are at a point when we can decide on bad options and we must choose the least of the bad ones. On the basis of what we are at our disposal, on the basis of all the information available to us today and on the basis of the activities carried out so far in this project, it appears to be the least of the solutions to the continuation of this project, with the aim of reducing the costs for its completion to the lowest possible level. So far, more at the conclusion of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež is behind him. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u81	I'm one of the culprits for this marriage today in the National Assembly. Not because I would be his proposer, but because I helped break the first attempt to adopt this law in the previous term. I am still convinced that this is an economic, environmental, energy-disrupted project which is fundamentally lacking in transparency, fairness, rationality in planning and some responsibility to the extent of public funding. Public funds, not only those that we can provide for the guarantee alone, but also public funds that are accumulated with the investor. I think that we should be seriously concerned about the issue of climate change, and that the crisis seems to have moved further away from our attention, and this does not mean that there is no climate change. This is a global issue that requires local responsibility; the responsibility that we must demonstrate in our share in Slovenia if we do not want to be affected by its consequences. But we will not be affected in the distant future, because of these issues we are already affected today. Let's just look at the drought that followed this winter. We had a deep drought in March. The rate of climate change in Slovenia promises a radical deterioration in water conditions and major droughts in all seasons. What, then, will we do with all our goals? Those who do not understand today that the issue of the economic and social crisis is also closely linked to the environmental dimension and that the need for this country to become a sustainable economy because of its competitiveness and smart transformation in order to connect economic, social and environmental issues are not mature for the 21st century, as the TES 6 project has not matured for the 21st century. Nor is it because Slovenia is a rich country with renewable energy sources. We still have half the water potential of unused, unused remains a large part of solar energy, geothermal energy, wind energy, etc. Here are the alternatives, and some Members have already requested from the previous government at the beginning of the previous mandate to prepare an alternative study on alternatives to this project; at a time when it might have been time for us to stop this project. I do not want to give my vote a confirmation of a project that I firmly believe is environmentally, economically, energy-relatedly flawed. I also do not want to cover all the irregularities that have taken place in this project by this vote, and this is clearly demonstrated by the independent audits of this project. One more thing, by the way. The EBRD, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is also expected to suspend this guarantee process due to the necessary further findings as to what irregularities and the extent of corruption have occurred. One more question about who is actually the investor of this project. If you ask me, this is not Holding Slovenian Power Plants and this is not Termoelectrica Šostanj. Do you know who this is? These are the Drava power plants Maribor, the largest producer of renewable energy in this country! TEŠ 6 is paid by Drava power plants from two sources: first from investment transfers, where we are unique in Europe and in the world, when we build a fossil energy project from renewable energy sources. Another time. Through ensuring the competitiveness of the sales price of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, the production price of TES is today and will be uncompetitive tomorrow and therefore requires cheap energy such as Drava Energy to subsidise, so that this energy can be sold to find a buyer on the Slovenian, European and global markets. Now I ask you, because it is also a social project to a large extent, and — yes, jobs in Velenje are important — tell me who is when the Maribor economy collapsed and, even today, is facing a great social prospect, came to Maribor with a billion EUR 400 million worth of projects and said that we will do so to preserve jobs in Maribor and to open a new one. Cheap energy from Drava, which could also be used to increase the competitiveness of the Maribor economy, attract new investors and continue the rich industrial tradition of Maribor, will now be dedicated to this, once again, economic, energy and environmentalally missed project. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u82	Mag. Matthew Tonin. After him, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u83	I'm signing everything my colleague Frangezh has just said. I cannot help but feel that we are actually transferring all the risks with the guarantee to the country and that if this project is eventually imported, we will all be recovering it together, but if this project succeeds, only some will share the profits. Therefore, once again: I do not intend to support this guarantee personally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. After him, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u85	Good afternoon, too, to the minister who joined this meeting. Above all, I will spend much less time than he did when he discussed procedural matters, who and when someone could be present and around rationalisation. Mr. Minister, you're no longer a Member, so you don't have to explain to us what's right and what's wrong. But the fact is, you know it's right that the government should be in this session from the very beginning. As you organize, this is no longer a problem for Members or the National Assembly, but only for you, because this is your point. But be enough about it. However, I am pleased that you have presented what we expected at the beginning of this very point, which is that you will intervene and want to know what was right and what was wrong with this project. And if some in the National Assembly can easily sign under certain statements, I can honestly tell you that I am no longer signing under any circumstances when we are talking about this point, because I am no longer clear. And I'll tell you why I don't understand. Above all, I am confused when a group of Members is introducing a law that, according to any normal logic, when we are talking about a guarantee for 440 million, should be proposed by the government. And believe me, this is even less clear to the Slovenians because they do not understand why Members have to play the role of government. I just can't understand it. I know that things are hard to explain and talk about, and I understand that, but since this path is incomprehensible, it is also appropriate in some way to respond to the government as it is. Today, I would expect to have a draft contract on the table, how this contract will look between TES and the government itself, so that we can know exactly what we are talking about, what is in it, and that we could then also suggest what else we are proposing to be inside. You've told us everything today, but I think you actually have a report by, like, 15. 3. was the deadline, but you already said that today, and you probably already know what it says in there. We could discuss this today and you could report it today. I'm afraid it's not just computers here. I'm truly afraid that they're not computers, because in the meantime the price has gone up so much that I don't know who's already gonna have this whole project on the line here. And more importantly, the guarantee. Today we are talking about the guarantee, tomorrow we are going to talk about the component of the budget when this guarantee is cashed and this money is actually going to go into the budget and we are actually going to have to burn that money back here in this same national assembly. And here's probably the whole reason why someone's afraid, and that's why they had to rush with the proposal of the guarantee itself, because he was afraid that this guarantee would simply not be on the government's side. I have this feeling that the government would never give this guarantee. I don't know if I'm right or wrong, but it's not the right way. And to this day, Minister, you have not convinced me of this, especially because whenever we talk about TES 6 in the National Assembly, because it is already such a story from the beginning to the end, you will probably have to say in distress what you said at the outset, that the substantive dispersion about TES has already been completed or is already over. Every time it opens up again, and every time we bring things back so far that all of us who don't know about the flow will eventually know everything about the flow, only those who should make the decision don't really know whether or not it's being done that they don't know anything. That is why I must say today that until the last time I thought that I would simply let you take responsibility for your coalition and vote on the guarantee bill, but I will wait until the end of the session to see how you convince me, because otherwise I will even oppose it. I believe and I'm sure you'll convince me. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Chehovin. Mr. Secretary, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u87	Just for a little while. Members have the right to make laws. Neither the Minister nor the Government can take that right away from them. This is a constitutional right and, of course, it is not to be affected. Once again, the questions you ask me are not questions for me, but are questions for the bill-maker. Today I am here as a representative of the Government and can explain to you why the Government has adopted a positive opinion under certain conditions on this guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Chehovin? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music? [[He's not here either.]] Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u89	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by stressing once again that the initial investment of this project was €690 million. If the investor were to stick to this indicative initial value, that would not be the topic that Members would be discussing in this Chamber today. In particular, I am surprised at this increase in investment, when even today, when the investment itself is already strong in progress, the answer is not known, but what is the final value of this investment. In short, we don't have that answer until today. For this reason, I can conclude that this project is conducted in an extremely individual and extremely non-transparent manner. This project has always included an extremely small number of Slovenian companies, although there is an enormous amount of engineering and executive knowledge in Slovenia; after all, not even those companies that own 100% of the country. The main contractor, Alstom, has concluded implementing contracts with subcontractors of other Balkan countries and other countries of Eastern Europe. If I say that the investor was a bad negotiator when the main contract was concluded, that's very kind of you to say. As the investment increases, it is said, the difference between the initial value and the final value, which is a million EUR 300,000, is 300 million, then the difference is 600 million. At least, what needs to be met in this segment is to meet all these requirements of the Government, including by reducing this investment by at least EUR 100 million. We know that contracts were concluded during a period of high growth, conjuncture, development, this is the case in 2007, 2008, and there is a lot of reserve in this project. This is how these government conditions must be met.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper has been reported. [[She's not in the hall.]] Mrs. Janja Klasinc. [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please. Behind her is Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, as we have already heard many times today, has not been tabled by the Government. Of course, she couldn't file it because we only voted on the government. 2. The fact that the Guarantee Act has been tabled by a group of Members and Members is a legitimate act. When I wondered how today to discuss or support the proposed law or not, I asked myself some questions. What is the motive of those Members and Members, or those who do not support the proposed law, and what is the motive for those who do not really want to understand that this law is practical for us not to support the TES 6 project today, but to decide whether to grant the government guarantee and thus less expensive capital to continue the investment, or, as it is stated, if we do not decide and support this law, we will have to deduct the state's assets of almost a billion euros and at the same time provide some 450 million euros for the so-called revitalization of Blocks 4 and 5 and contribute almost 300 million funds under specific laws to close the Velenje Coal Mine. But I also asked myself how many of you, dear fellows and colleagues, were in the last month or last week in the Shaleska Valley, more precisely in Šostanje, and how far did you see this investment? When I looked at it, I was practically in this area almost every day, it convinced me that, in fact, regardless of how much I understood all those arguments, that the changed amount of investment was from 600 million to as much as 300 million, but when I looked at how far the project was, it would be irresponsible if it did not support this project. Of course, I also support all those proposals to carefully analyse how this project is being implemented, to ensure that all those responsible for the management of this project, both the supervisory committees and everyone else, do their work, as well as that today you have already repeatedly warned Members and Members that corruption has also occurred. If this has happened, once again, I am also in favour of these matters being investigated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I would have stopped by as soon as Matthew Frangezh spoke, but you need to calm down when a fellow Member speaks to you as Matthew does. I can understand he's young. I can understand he's from Maribor. I can understand that he has a lot of problems, but that kind of discussion is at least a little strange. If Maribor needed some kind of law to open up jobs – let's do this! Let's save Maribor with new jobs! However, if someone can support 3,000 jobs for a billion EUR 300 million over a period of 40 years and have a job for them and a guaranteed product, then that is what I would like to see. The worst thing is, we're sitting in our own garden. Holding Slovenian power plants, i.e. Slovenian energy, consists of two pillars, if I make it very easy. I'm talking, of course, about production facilities. One is Holding Slovenian Power Plants, which is made up as it is composed, and of course there is Drava, but there are also other hydroelectric plants and are other objects. Therefore, in any case in this case it is public funds, but forgive me, it is public funds paid by payers, electricity users pay for this electricity. Therefore, it is not appropriate to discuss the public funds that the State of Slovenia will have to provide for this. This is also a question of who should pay for the annuities or who should pay for the difficulties in Holding the Slovenian Power Plants. Thus, in case of problems TES is holding Slovenian power plants with all its own and it has not happened that Holding Slovenian power plants at any time would require any guarantee, but a lot of moisture. [[...]] Let me read what was written in this book, and don't mind me, ladies and gentlemen, an important law is before us. That energy is today a sector that invests a lot. Besides TES, of course they invest in Eles Savo. This requires long-term processes; these facilities take 40 and 50 years. However, there are also high profits, including investments needed for safe care. Those who say that they are professional have said this; those who know why it is done. For everything that was going on in the field of TES, there was an expert decision at the very beginning. This decision was also supported by the Slovenian Government and was placed in the national programme – excuse me, in the resolution on the national programme – and therefore had a place. Whatever the engineers that led the investment and everyone else were doing, they were doing what was agreed upon and recorded. Now, perhaps there is something else to think about about what has been said today. Some ask why we filed a guarantee bill. We have tabled a guarantee law because we are directly involved in the environment in which the investment is taking place. So, in the Valley of Shale, we live with this investment, and we start with it. In 1980, 1982, we protested when the Valley of Shale was completely swamped with S02, ash and all. There was no environmentalist anywhere at the time, only the local people complained. Farmers met on Tito's market, and then there were 10,000 protestors. Then we installed cleaning machines, cleaned the water, cleaned the air and the ground. People believe us, they trust us, so we have a location in the Valley where we can build the largest energy facility in Slovenia or the thermal energy facility. From here on out, the questions were constantly linked to this. [[...]] Before that, something about why the cost of the project soared. There was no one in Slovenia who asked why the cost of the project soared, which was suspended 10 months in 2010 or 11 months in 2010. The last time I spoke to him a month ago was when I asked him what he thought about all this – not one of the directors asked why the cost of the project had gone up to the sum he was talking about today! He will be able to give you an argument as to why this was being irritated and why they signed such contracts. The contracts may have been untransparent; they may have been poorly negotiated, but at that stage — again, in this book, which I have carefully read, it says that the value of the investment in the function of the time in which it takes place. But I wanted to say this: if we, ladies and gentlemen, today, or in the future, or very quickly do not decide to give the guarantee that we will tell the engineers in TES and the management of TES how to lead this investment very clearly, we will do irreparable damage, because we will not give a clear signal that the project can continue, and therefore it will be even more expensive. We are today in April 2012, when we are discussing what should be done last year. Of course, the negotiating points of the investor are, say, workers in the TES, extremely bad if they do not have the guarantee today, they have no signal of whether or not they will receive the guarantee. Therefore, I find it extremely difficult to conclude any kind of contract if they can peacefully say, "Sorry, you have no basis to do this." Now maybe even those who say it was always "scraped." I certainly don't think it shows that it's that easy to define those engineers who work their entire lives completely professionally and do not engage in politics. The energy profession has made it clear that at the location of Block 6, namely in the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, it can build a thermal energy facility, which will be one of the energy supply pillars. Now on the question that very few Slovenian companies are building block 6. Actually, that's true. However, the commitment of the management of Block 6 is that, wherever possible, it must give priority to domestic suppliers, if possible through public procurement. It is clear that we do not have the technology of domestic producers. However, the assurance of the management of TES is that they will everywhere require that the operators are domestic and this has been clear to us and is also a priority when we have talked about all of this through these investments. Let me also try to say this flosculo or the idea that someone from the tendering group has told the tenderer what the price is. All those who have ever worked on such investments know how this is happening; you know that the invitation to tender is that the documentation cannot be seen that the opening was daily per minute precisely in the room where both tenderers were present, and that no one had any insight into the price of the documentation of the other provider. I can't imagine it could be! Not last time. The bidders were two: Alstom and Simens – now I know most about everything that happened there. Of course, Simens himself did not submit a request for revision, but we are talking about that the other bidder received all the information he needed to be able to make a favourable offer; it is two different technologies, two different companies, and it is clear that this was not possible. I am assured, however, that those who are acquainted with the way in which TES does that absolutely could not be done. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, at such an important time, to say perhaps another thought or something about what would affect clarification and our decision. First of all, the Pit of Schostjanj. Coal in the Šostanj cave means that the town of Šostanj will in no case be unearthed and that the town of Šostanj will remain and will develop nicely, but this is the term we use in mining. For this reason, it seemed important to me to tell him and to make it clear that no one would have said that either of us had talked about the fact that we would also be going down - even this is being used, a lot of experts are talking a lot about what should be good for us. Maybe I should repeat some of the allegations, but don't mind me saying that. TŠ 6 is an investment of electricity consumers, TŠ 6 has the code 3E: economic eligibility, eco-acceptability, including local acceptability and energy efficiency. Slovenia has three investments: the ECK in the Shaleska Valley, the Uran Mine Zirovski vrh and the Lendava refinery, each worth about a billion euros. The fourth investment can, of course, be here if we do not complete this project. TER 6 needs a firm agreement, a high level of consensus in the profession – this is certainly true when we talk about the energy sector – in politics and also with citizens in the local environment. It is also a matter of national interest, it is a relatively high level of self-sustainment and independence of our supply. When we talked about different interests today, we forgot about the interests of traders. This is where the merchants are interested. Money dealers, electricity, coal and more. One more thing. Today, energy in Slovenia is such that it cannot be stored. TES 6 meets the strict legal requirements, i.e. the placement of facilities in the space and also in the energy system. Let me say that TES 6 is a replacement investment and does not increase capacity, TES 6 is a replacement block 1, 2, 3 and 4 as well as block 5. Block 5 will remain a cold reserve that will not produce as much pollution as it pollutes today, has installed cleaning appliances, but will have a cold reserve that could be switched on in the event of any malfunction or accident on block 6 then. Our expert agreement on energy is that block 5 remains a cold reserve. TEŠ 6 is not a competition for renewable sources, hydroenergy; this is called Holding of Slovenski Power Plants accelerated investment in hydropower and other resources. TEM 6 therefore replaces the blocks I spoke about earlier, but at the same time this is the end of mining in the Valley of Shaleska, without the burden of taxpayers. In the event of the completion of block 6 and the successful operation in the Shaleska Valley, there will be no law required to close the Velenje Coal – as it was necessary to pass the law for Zasavje, what I know, for the Kanjiarica or for other facilities, Idrija, where we have all these problems – and this is also the end of mining in the Shaleska Valley. Maybe even if I said something like that: we can't build wind power plants in Slovenia, we can't build. In Slovenia, we must not build on Mura, in Soča we must not build, in Poljana we must not set up solar power plants, biomass everywhere smells. Everywhere they put the power plants, say, on biomass there are incredible problems. Then what do we do? What can we do to maintain this Slovenia’s energy supply? Therefore, with the support of the guarantee, we will continue the good project; the initiative is, honourable Members and Members, Madam Vice-President, to take a look at TES. It seems to me an extremely good initiative to take a look at TES to listen to the arguments on all the questions you are talking about today that you have asked about today. Then why don't we do it? Again: Today, at this stage, the time is right, at TES will be happy to visit this visit, anytime on Saturday, Sunday, Monday. That's why I think it's right that we support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor. Since it is not, I would like to give the floor to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music, please, Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! There's a big problem ahead of us how to make a decision. We're all under a lot of pressure, Minister. I've overlooked that you're with us, too. [[...]] The TES 6 problem is an economic, environmental and social bomb, but it is literally. For this reason, it is a very difficult decision and a decision should be weighed and finally made by compromise. There is a need to consider the positive and negative impacts that this project may have. I almost fully agree with Mr Meh. I also agree with those who oppose, and I am not sure how I will vote today until the vote. I have also received a letter from Mr Willi Kovacic, who says that Members of the guarantee must not decide before the Government finds out whether they have actually met all the conditions imposed on them by the Government. Our request to Positive Slovenia, represented by Mr Stepišnik, was that we requested an appropriate analysis of the situation or that someone perform a reconstruction of everything that happened there. Unfortunately, it is most important for policy that key resources and economic projects, as well as economic societies, where the state owns, are run by the electors who are subordinate to the ruling politicians, irrespective of the devastation they cause by their political and non-professional conduct. This should not be our guide for the future and from here also a message to the ruling coalition that more and less policies must actually be taken into account, even though we know that political decision is very important. But in terms of such strategic investments as the TES 6 concrete project, we should actually act more economically than we knew in the past. What is also questionable to me is that there is not enough money for hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava, and for T6 and TES 6, money is also to be provided through the state guarantee. My personal opinion is that all projects to be covered by the State guarantee should be extremely transparent and without shadow of a doubt as to the economic viability of the investment. Environmental analysis and ecological acceptability and energy eligibility are also very important. I understand the inhabitants and the advocates, and this is what is a positive part of this project, that in fact all residents in the narrow area of the location of TES 6 defend and want us to confirm this project, because this project employs several thousand citizens and citizens and will be even more if it is finally built. That's why I'd press the "yes" button. The acceptability is also shown in this case because there is literally an energy at the site and there is no need to import energy for the operation of the TES. But it is true that fossil fuels are not popular, but you could also say somewhere in the Arab world, where they have a lot of oil, that they won't do it because it's not acceptable. Environmental pollution is not acceptable to the whole world. I would point out that Slovenia is too small to prevent all these ecological disasters ahead of us. But that's why I don't understand the environmentalists and nature conservationists and our environment, that wind power plants were opposed where we still have too much wind. The wind, instead of giving us electricity, just turns trucks on the roads, so powerfully blows the storm in Primorska. And that's not it. Ecologists and protectors should also be once and for all [[...]] This project probably would not have started if we had thought correctly decades ago and decided on environmentally friendly sources of energy. We have a lot of others here. Say, where are the wind power plants, where's the water, where's the sun, where's the geothermal energy? There's always a dick, some dick and some flower that says you won't do it there and there! Dear ladies and ladies, friends, friends, colleagues and colleagues – why am I saying this? Because — because this is also what the cameras are recording — that those outside this room should also hear it — I am concerned about our behavior because we do not behave rationally, not economically, but always argue. And as long as we fight, the train drives. Therefore, today I call for a sober reflection and a compromise to be taken; as our colleague and friend Stepišnik made his decision when he laid down: pluses, pluses, pluses, positive features and characteristics of this project, and negative impacts. And he decided to vote in favour. And it's right that he made the decision as he did! Some of you here have received a letter like this myself last night; if you do, we will make sure that those who press the "for" button will be revealed on the Internet and you will all see how and what will happen to you God's punishment and so on. Please! Here the threat is that we will be the one – I do not know what is really acceptable, whoever it is, to be a protector of nature and the environment a hundred times, I should not receive this letter. [[...]] We literally view this as a threat. This is pressure on me personally as an MP. We decide on our own conscience and I would like to make the right decision, so here we have experts and experts explaining how we really have to decide; not because someone wants to, but because it would be best for this country. And politicians should make decisions, as is best for our country, and I hope that we will know each other in the future if we take away all the lost history or opportunities and opportunities that we have had. In fact, I would like to think carefully about what this brings, what it brings, and then the decision: the "for", the "against" or the "quorum". I myself will need the next 15 minutes, half an hour to decide, and I will also consult myself with my mind and understanding and the decision will be mine, sovereign and I will also inform this gentleman who wrote to me, William Kovacic: "I will tell you publicly, as a politician, a member of the Positive Slovenia Group, that I will stand sovereign and upright for my decision, whether it is in favour or against!" And I won't be ashamed of how I voted, even though you're going to dig it up, as you wrote down here, that I don't know what kind of punishment we're going to get if we press the "yes" button. On the other hand, dear gentlemen, those who advocate this project because you are already defined or determined. Personally, as an entrepreneur, I know that money is like liquid water and money finds good projects. If this project is really that good, then, for God's sake, why didn't you take care of getting an investor here earlier to cover such a profitable and economically viable investment!? What will happen if the government gives the guarantee and then everything else — the mountain shook and the disaster struck? I hope not, so I am also critical on the one hand, and on the other hand I would like to help those who live there and are dependent on their jobs. Today, the highest value is the job! Ladies and gentlemen, this will be a difficult decision, but I hope that this will indeed compromise what we have said today and what you will say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor, I see that he is not in the hall. I give my word to Mr Jožet Tank and prepare myself, please, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. This is one of those projects in which the profession worked to a large extent. I think that there was only one decision in between concerning the consent that the Minister was obliged to sign, but that was because this procedure was carried out so procedurally and in accordance with the rules. In this case, the Minister has only had the opportunity to sign or not sign; it is said that he decides politically on the issue of an environmental agreement. This project also shows that a bald child comes out where there are many grandmothers. In many stages of this process, in many years of this process contracts have been concluded with various consulting companies, consulting institutions for large money, but these consulting institutions which advised those who led the project in an operational way – led by the profession, according to the company – have only led to a slightly different price, generally higher price after each consulting contract. Here we can only ask ourselves how this profession worked in this case. The third thing that actually stings a little bit in this project is that in this enormous amount of funds, at any stage of this process, or initial or now that we are just before the final phase, it went from 600 million euros to a billion 300; not once did any of those who bought the project that ordered the equipment, etc., require no anti-procurement for any thing. Not once! If I remember, and if I'm watching this, it wasn't a requirement, and there's probably no counter-winning in the contract either. We have a similar example of purchasing some equipment, otherwise military, there were requirements for anti-procurement in Slovenian goods. In this project – a billion 300 – this has not happened, and this is a four-fold project, which will eventually be five times larger. Sure. In this project, this is actually one of the key problems. I must say that I fully agree with the opinion of the Government, which has set these four conditions, especially the first two conditions are crucial. This is said to reduce the value of the investment by around EUR 100 million and to stabilise the price of energy produced, it is said that there is a permanent supply in euros, that is 2.25 euros per gigajoule of energy produced. These two conditions seem rational to me. The first condition is a step towards rationalisation and a reduction in investment, and the second condition ultimately also means price stabilisation. It is said that this project, when implemented, will not then be a public burden and that we will then be citizens of payers holding the prices of energy and covering the differences in price, as on a number of projects this is often the case. I must say that at this stage of the procedure, in the first reading, we will support this proposal for a law, but we warn all those who are so enthusiastically advocating this project that at the second stage, if these conditions of this decision are not met, we will not support the law. This first hearing does not mean that a vacancy note is given. I propose, I appeal to all those who are involved in this project in one way or another to ensure that these decisions of the Government are implemented before the next procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to replace Mr Mirk Brulco in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! First of all, I must say that it is not right for Members and Members to make such difficult and binding laws, although I agree with the Minister that we have all the possibilities and the power to do so by way of a halt. It is also my government's fault that it was not the master of the procedure in this story around TES as well as Janšev's government in 2006 or. 2004-2008 as well as the current ones. Such a matter cannot be passed on to Members and Members of Parliament. We don't have enough data, knowledge in this area. We're just the one who the government tells us, I'll say, in a way, the explanation and then we decide, as Gaspar said, with the pluses and minuses. I myself have decided to support this guarantee, of course not in the way Jože Tanko said that now we, who are politically defending it, should learn and find some information. We're not gonna look for them! This is what the institutions are responsible for, and this is what the government is for, and so if something was wrong, let the matter be settled, but if nothing was wrong, let the matter go on. It is very sad that the former Prime Minister did not know how to receive a visit from the former Director of TES to sort of agree on what was wrong and what was wrong. Then there was a political change, despite the fact that my government was there, but also the same, now the new administration, did not find any major irregularities. And what Mrs Ramšak said – I was in the TES several times or I was twice as Chairman of the Committee on the Economy when we had a meeting there and I saw what the project was like, that I did not say that it had been three or four years since that first meeting and that it was probably even more built up there and the project went on. I don't think this country can stop this project, under no circumstances can it stop it. Because if she stops him, she will really have to find responsibility, and she will have to be responsible for it. I will support this project and count on the determination of these governments to find the culprits, why such an increase has taken place, and that those responsible will be responsible. However, I must tell Mr Tonin that I believe that it is the first time in the parliamentary benches that he must know that TES 6 is in 100% of the country's ownership of HSE, which is also in 100% of the country's ownership. If TES 6 wins, the state will take part in this profit, not in individuals. Sometimes you have to pour yourself some clean wine. But I have to say, in all these great stories, I'm the only one who's paid a fine out of all of you for this TER 6. With 400 euros, the Anti-Corruption Commission has deepened me, because I was not in the previous set when we had already lodged this guarantee, and wrote that I had been visited on the steps of the State Assembly by people from TES 6, although we had three meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs in previous years, where we publicly said we were in favour of this project. So I'm the only one who paid the penalty for signing those laws that I think are good. But those who have pushed billions to the left and to the right are not responding. I will support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Minister want a word, Mr. Zvonko Blackach? Here you go. Then there's the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I told or presented the Government’s position on this issue in the main context. Now let me have a few more words about what you're going to decide today. The debate has repeatedly highlighted the decision to approve or reject this project. I'm afraid you're not at this point anymore. We're not at this point anymore. I said that once before. After the content of this, it is no longer possible to decide by stopping things. I think we all get that. Today, the National Assembly will only decide whether or not to initiate a procedure to assess the continuation of this project. All other issues were consumed no later than in 2009. After that, after my assessment, the train moved on. However, that this procedure had even occurred and this point that it was necessary to decide in the National Assembly, but some things had been done before, which were not the best. However we turn things around, it is unreasonable and inexplicable how it is possible to either misjudge the value of the project at the beginning or run it so poorly that it will increase by 600 million euros from 2006 to today. This value almost doubled during this period. Somewhere with 600 million, this value has approached a billion 300 million and we are now looking to see that we have to do everything we can to make it cheap for about 100 million euros. This is all that is the subject of the decision at this point. This project will be able to be cheaper in such a way as to approve cheaper funding and to commit those who have led this project in the past, or their successors to do their utmost to negotiate better conditions with suppliers. If it weren't for that inspiration, then there wouldn't be any problem. As soon as this value increased to some billion and 50 million euros in one of the investment programmes, the State guarantee for funding was not required. It wasn't requested. The demand came only after this value rose over a billion and 100 million euros. This is what the National Assembly is doing today, and because of this, too, the truth of the heart, things are not going as well as they should be running. Based on all the circumstances arising from all the information arising from the situation in which TEŠ 6 is today and from the fact that things are excluded in some of the most optimal and rational manner, the Government, when deciding on the opinion of this law, which Mr Meh has tabled, has identified positively under the conditions I have previously stated. Given that today you will only decide to initiate a procedure for further legislative procedure, I am also obliged to say that the Government expects these relations to be settled before this law is finally decided in the National Assembly. This means that the terms of the undertaking, as defined in the decision of the Government of 23 February, must be signed by the TEC before this law is definitively adopted in the National Assembly or that this bill is duly amended in a further legislative procedure where the conclusion of this contract will be listed as one of the essential conditions for the application of the guarantee. This means that if these conditions, which have been mentioned, are not met, then there will be no guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The text is also wanted by the proposer. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thanks again. Mr. Minister, with most of what you said, I agree. I would say that this is to a large extent the correct conclusion and that I actually agree with it, and I will somehow come to it. Someone said today that there's not enough money for hydro power plants in the lower Savi. This claim is not true. The hydropower plants on the bottom of the Sava are normally built, run and the investment cycle continues. So it's not at the expense of investments in hydroelectric plants or any kind of transfers. We have read that very large investments are now taking place in the field of electricity as a whole, not at the expense of Block 6. Block 6 has a financial structure completed, 600 million or something out of credits, some own resources, depreciation, i.e. holdings of Slovenian power plants, and commercial loans. It's a closed investment. What Mr. Secretary said about the guarantee, that's the point. Today, we are just deciding whether to provide energy with the cheapest source or not. If we do not make this possible, let us also stop the project, stop the project, but let us not stop it, because they need to find new funding, they have to agree differently. What Mr Tanko says is to ensure that the conclusions of the Government - if I so understand - I apologize to Mr Tank for not being in here - ensure that the drafter of the guarantee law is satisfied with the conclusions of the Government. That's what the government has to do, and of course the government will do, that's the answer. But I will do what I have not done so far, from both directors of the Thermoelectric Company of Šostjanj, formerly and now, I will get written materials, why the investment has been driven from the initials so much to the final ones. That's what I'm gonna do. I will also obtain information on why state guarantees are needed. I don't have that information, and I didn't understand that I was supposed to say it. My sincere intention was to take over the personal, to try to inform the National Assembly, to this Parliament that there was an investment in Šostanje; to have several scenarios available: one of the scenarios was to stop the production of energy in Šostjanje; and the other scenario was to continue with the production of energy in Šostjanje. When we decided before 2000 to continue the production of electricity in Šostjanje, we did not propose a law on the closure of the Coal and the Hempower Plant of Šostjanj, otherwise in those years we would have proposed that the state adopt a law on the closure of the Velenje Coal and the Hempower Plant of Šostjanj, because it was our decision. At that time, we decided, very responsible, on the basis of professional and political arguments, in the Shaleska Valley within energy to continue the production of electricity by taking into account the ecological, even spatial and economic reasons we discussed. From there we started this investment and from there, the first new project was adopted in 2003 or – at least the idea of Block 6 in Šostanje starting, and thus giving consent also to the entire wider Silesian Valley and, as Mr Zanoškar said, to a much broader environment. Because of all this, ladies and gentlemen, this law is appropriate. Of course, what the government wrote down can also be a two - sword. I recommend that someone who is responsible in this country, but conducts an interview with the director of Thermoelectrica Šostjanj, the current director – I hope that it will be long enough – I do not think anything bad, because there can also be many reasons for his replacement, such as the reasons for the replacement of the first director, but with him – how can we achieve the appreciation of this project, how can we achieve appreciation. To answer the question of whether or not anti-supply was required, who was the one who should have demanded anti-supply for such a large block, who was the one who should have been involved. I can't believe that Block 6, which is an extremely large investment project – but forgive me, energy project, this is not a project that we would do just like that! This isn't a project someone would do to make a profit! This is a project that the energy industry has proposed to continue to supply Slovenia with safe energy, with the safety that we can obtain in any case, not with gas, not with imported energy, but with our safe energy for another 40 years. Therefore, Block 6 is also a project that provides a good degree of stable electricity supply. I thank you for listening to me, but I tried to tell you my behavior about this project, the behavior of a man who lived his whole life in the Valley of Shaleska, who was fighting those who first forced us to dig coal and we had to dig and produce electricity, and finally when we decided to do it ourselves, and now in a way that this decision was not the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Commence application. Check-in is complete. Three Members have been notified. The first is Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Jožef Jerovšek is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm glad there were quite a few professional backgrounds here. I find that, in fact, we all have one problem with what to do with this law: whether to let it continue in the next parliamentary procedure or to prevent it today. To begin with, I would just like to remind myself, and here I am paying tribute to the esteemed colleague Meh, who on February 2nd this year introduced this law into the parliamentary procedure, as we all remember: The government did not come forward until about a week later and it would not make sense for the Government to then introduce the same law. So these findings weren't exactly dated. I fully understand, fellow Meh, that he is aware that he is a Member of all Slovenes and Slovenes, but, normally, he is closest to the region in which he lives. I was also very grateful when, in the 2004-2008 term, we adopted several guarantee laws in this house so that we could join Prekmurje by highway Slovenia. I believe and understand that this is an energy facility that provides jobs and so on. It is also difficult for us to make a decision because of how respected colleague Gaspar Gaspar Mišič said that we are facing threats in such and different forms, but I believe that we are sure in our decisions that we will make a decision on the basis of arguments based on what is good for Slovenia, not on the basis of who threatens us more. Last but not least, we were also threatened on a strike yesterday, and we did nothing that could be used to threaten us by strikers. We are having a difficult decision because we do not have enough data because we do not have enough, and this must be said, the medium- and long-term financial perspectives, the financial projections of this energy facility. I do not think that the carbon future is the future that Slovenia should build on. It is undeniable that TES 6 is the carbon future of Slovenia. I had this opportunity myself, and from this city I thank those who allowed me to see this construction site last fall. At the time, the tower was not yet 100 feet tall, it was significantly lower, but this construction site fascinated me according to its dimensions. I don't think today, at this point, we can't make a decision today to end the construction of this facility, so to speak, to wipe it off the face of the earth and make a vegetable there. That's not possible! Let us be realistic, even though some citizens and citizens also invite us to do so. Let's be realistic. From this moment forward we must make every effort, so we, so the Government, so that this investment will end, as far as possible, rationally; and under point 2, that the operation of this facility will be cost-effective, rational, that it will not be wasteful, because obviously some mistakes have been made here and someone has taken advantage of it, but we do not have this body, nor do we have time to explore and sanction all these errors today. I also conclude by finding that nature is changing faster because of the reckless actions of a greedy person than, for example, in the Republic of Slovenia, an innovative developmental thought. I do not think that birds will die out in Slovenia, even if some windmills are spinning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. I apologize to my colleague, Mr Jerovšek, for being mistakenly mentioned. Get ready, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we reaffirm that it is right to hold such discussions in this highest assembly, to answer some of the questions that are somehow produced by the public and which, last but not least, also arise to us. Today we have been able to see professional arguments for and also some concerns against this construction. There is certainly something to point out that we need to revise the national energy programme, that the government has to deal with the path that we will somehow want to provide electricity to all citizens and citizens in Slovenia. Once again, there has been a response that the State, as owner and where the owner is, must provide the necessary professional supervision. This facility didn't start building yesterday, this facility wasn't built for two days, or three days, or one week, so we wouldn't have enough time to get control. Not only one minister was responsible for this facility, but at least three ministers, some state secretaries and a lot of professional people, in one way or another, associated with this construction and with this investment. I am convinced that the data can be obtained and that we should meet and inform the public. Whether someone took advantage or not, or whether it was just a lot of negligence and so on — I don’t want to talk about it too much because I don’t know and I don’t know if anyone knows. The one who said someone took advantage of it is right to say so. But given that there were a lot of fog, then of course there are such and different concerns. But something is certain, and this is what I would like to say to Mr Frangez that the EBRD has not suspended the contract. Well, it may have been a mistake, it may have been a delusion, but as a teacher, I could have said it was a lie. You know, problems always arise when trust is lost, when we don't trust anymore, and when we think that we are capable or that each individual of us is capable of making decisions about everything, talking about everything, but we don't trust the experts and those who gave us anything on the table. Look, already, many times it has been said how much coal there is in the Shaleska Valley, that for at least 50 years, and all these calculations have been made, there have been doubts, a new analysis has been made, and not least we, too, have paid so much and so many thousands of euros, goes into the hundreds of thousands that finally those experts have found out what our own said. There is a big problem with us that we do not trust our profession, that we do not trust each other, and that we always question something. This doubt is then passed on among the people and we would like people to be happy to take certain measures that the Government has proposed, some of them will have to be taken, but we always have doubts about each other and, of course, others about us. That's not good. That's certainly not good. We all have options, and we had the opportunity to obtain certain data. If we don't get them on the table, we can call them as Members, we demand them, and we'll get that information. It's countering. As we have already heard today, renegotiation is under way. We got this information. So, renegotiations can, I say, lower the price as well. Yes, you can. Today, however, we can see that this has not been adequately resolved. Really, someone's gonna have to answer for that. I hope that this government will come to the conclusion that individuals will have to answer. Thank you very much. One more time: I'll back you up. I was convinced by these arguments today and those I had already obtained that the guarantee must be supported because it would [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Another five-minute debate – Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary! If you've seen, I called a friend on the phone earlier, a good acquaintance of this area, and he whispered to me because I'm still making up my mind. He says: I am personally against the TES 6 project, but if it cannot be stopped as it appears that it is not possible, then at least a cheaper investment should happen, so the guarantee must be supported. This is the opinion of my friend, who I trust with everything. Today, however, we do not decide, as we have found, and as Mr Minister mentioned earlier, for or against the TES 6 project. We understood that this project cannot be stopped and that we are only deciding on the guarantee in order to end this project more cost-effectively in order to make it cheaper than it would otherwise have been if it had not received the guarantee, due to more favourable bank loans. Unfortunately, there are too many misinformation, lies, arguments for and against in public. Where's the truth? Perhaps the truth is somewhere in between, as if we were reading right - handed newspapers and left - handed favored newspapers, the truth is probably somewhere in between. My question is this. I know the answer to Mr Minister and Mr Meh as the proposer, or I know the answer, but I am asking the question on purpose. Does the project have a certified environmental impact assessment and does the project have an environmental permit? If he has these permits and judgements, then those who oppose TES do not trust experts and professionals who sit somewhere, who are representatives of the government and this country, and are most professionally called to decide whether or not to issue a permit. I believe and know how difficult it is to obtain an appropriate assessment or validation and environmental authorisation for certain projects. When you get that, you certainly have a green light to put it into effect or build it. If this project has this – then why are we talking so much about it, we are so opposed to it? My colleagues from the Positive Slovenia Group know that when I spoke to them this morning to oppose TER 6 from an environmental point of view, I would never have started to build it at that time. But this is the inherited burden of all of us. If it cannot be stopped, then at least it should be cheaper, so say those who advocate confirmation of our decision, which is on the agenda. I'm worried anyway. All these investments that we've made and inherited, that some or some of them move around and that we're playing mice — cats, cats — mice. We are somewhat undecided, and I am not surprised that this country is as impoverished as it is after twenty years of independence. We simply accepted some projects, and now we do not find the culprit who spent 600, 700 million euros, took this money – colleague Kavtičnik says no one will check in and report back. Of course not! If the rule of law works and where the rule of law is real, there's no such thing as thievery. But there's a lot of thieving in this country, and we really need to end it. Project TES 6 should happen at the will of us, Members of Parliament and Members, as we will decide today to end this game once and for all and with a variety of misdirections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. There is no further discussion under the Rules of Procedure for the representative of the Government, even though I see here a Minister wishing to speak a sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u111	A question was asked, and I think it is right that it is answered. I understand that, given the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I no longer have the opportunity to discuss. Of course, all necessary administrative authorisations have been obtained. The environmental agreement was issued on 11 November 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF PUBLIC GOVERNMENT AND SURVIVAL COMPOSITION IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the president of the committee of Mrs Alenka Jeraj for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u113	Good-bye! At its 2nd meeting, on 3 April 2012, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund submitted by the Council of State to the Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant mag. Dusan Semolič stressed that the aim of the bill proposal is to establish an institute for the replacement of unpaid salaries. The novel seeks to resolve the economic situation of workers who still have a working relationship with an insolvent employer, but because of their poor financial situation, it has not paid them three consecutive salaries. The remuneration would be obtained by the Fund, which would then go against the employer as a creditor, up to the amount of the funds paid to the worker. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the content of the proposed provisions should be thoroughly considered from the legal system’s point of view, in the light of the legislation in force and its international legal basis, since the law interferes with many other laws. Representative of the Government, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrej Vizjak said that the Government opposes the solutions contained in the proposal for a law, because it considers that the solution is not clear and that it does not bind the worker to the termination of the employee's working relationship due to the actual later introduction of the employer's insolvency procedure or the later termination of the employee's employment relationship due to the employer's insolvency proceedings and allows the worker to exercise the right to pay unpaid salaries for a period of three months also for different periods of time. Nor did the government agree with the proposalers' assessment that the bill should have no financial implications for the state budget. At the same time, the Government notes that the proposal substantially amends the law now in force, as it significantly expands the range of beneficiaries and thus interferes with the purpose of the guarantee institution. Proponents of the bill considered that workers in an irregular situation should be helped as soon as possible and more from day to day. They therefore proposed that the amendment should be supported and that amendments followed by the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service should be found with possible solutions. Opponents of such a solution, which they believe would also constitute a non-systemic intervention in the current legislation, to which the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, has also pointed out that a solution should be found, but not in this law, but in insolvency law. They also did not agree with the proposaler's opinion that there would be no budgetary implications, but also suggested that the Government should make an even greater effort to draw funds from the Globalisation Fund. Some discussers felt that this problem would not be resolved by insolvency legislation and that insolvency proceedings would take too long and therefore proposed the adoption of the proposed amendment. The Minister said that more comprehensive solutions should be found, which are already being prepared at the Ministry. The Ministry's priority project is to recast labour law. The government is also preparing other measures, but in his view the country's deficit can only be addressed by greater economic growth. After discussion, the committee adopted the following decision by nine votes and five against: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give my word to the representative of the Council of State, mag. Mr Semolič as a proposal for a bill to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u115	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! Thank you very much, too, for having the opportunity to speak a word, two about the problem we, of course, and we hope to solve with the proposal of this legislative initiative. First of all, the problem, but I believe it's so familiar, it's not worth losing a lot of words, but it is. We know the examples of many companies, SCT, Vegrad, a number of construction companies, road companies, textile companies where what should not have happened is happening. Workers after months, three, four, five and six months don't get paid, and they have to be in the company, and some have to work. At the same time, the calvary begins when workers have to pay the cost of staying, checkouts, families, and more. I think it's too much in this environment to say that the problem is really big, pain, especially for people who are falling into these problems. On the other hand, we have a law on the guarantee and maintenance fund that allows workers, workers, when they lose their jobs, when they get the unemployment status, when also bankruptcy proceedings are initiated to obtain the right to a maximum of three wages, minimum wages. It is said, however, that we have a system that, when bankruptcy occurs, when they get unemployment status, the state does help these people. Our proposal goes in this direction so that the worker has the right to these three minimum wages before bankruptcy occurs. In fact, the problem is that the path to bankruptcy is sometimes difficult, it is a large calvary, only theoretically can bankruptcy begin with workers and workers. About three thousand euros is the price of this – no money, they can't. For this reason, we believe that it would be with the correction of this law that a system should be put in place to ensure that these three minimum wages are paid to the worker in the event that he does not receive three salaries from the employers. The fact that there is no misunderstanding also exhausts the right to three minimum wages. He can't ask this address again when he goes bankrupt. No! No! It says exactly that this thing wears out. As a creditor, however, the State enters with an application instead of an employee against the employer. This makes the country much easier, but the country is a country, the problem of how to get the money that workers are entitled to. So it's this change that workers have the right to ask for it after three months when they don't get paid. Of course, the point is to bring an action before a court, there must be a point of identification, and then the state as an institution that must have some understanding, even in these cases, and help the worker as much as possible. We have also proposed this with the previous government, with the former Minister of Labour. That is exactly the answer we have received: there is a need for system regulation, there is a lot to be done to prevent these things, employers will be able to abuse and so on. I'm not saying anything because that's what this is about. This system is now unfair and it is about changing the system – of course in this work. For there is also an excuse where there is such a thing in Europe; even in Europe you will not find a case where five months of workers are not paid, and there is no bankruptcy, and virtually nothing happens to anyone. So I would like to ask for some reflection on this proposal and, of course, for a decision as you choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Patricia Chular, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to introduce the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u117	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, a nice greeting and thanks for the floor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the following reasons. We believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions is fundamentally changing the current law, substantially extending the range of beneficiaries and thus also interfering with the purpose of the guarantee institution. The fund established to guarantee the rights of workers provides or derives from the termination of the employment relationship due to the insolvency of the employer established in the procedures laid down by the law. However, in the case of the bill itself, it is neither the termination of the employment relationship nor the insolvency of payment shall be established in this particular procedure. The proposal for a law is also flawed on the question of the multiple payment of rights by the Fund, as it follows the proposed text of the proposal to conclude that the worker can repeatedly file these applications for payment of unpaid salaries, of course after three months and file an action if he is still employed by this insolvent employer. In addition, it should be pointed out that the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination procedures already allow workers to apply for bankruptcy in the event of non-payment of salaries, and thus these workers are entitled under the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act. It also explicitly provides for the application of the Institute for the Exemption of Court Fees and the free legal aid provided to those workers in financial condition. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is of the opinion that the proposed changes in terms of feasibility for employers in a poor financial situation would not achieve the objective set out in the draft law itself. Finally, it is unfounded to argue that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund has no financial implications, since in the budget previously on the item it is necessary to provide funds from which the funds are reimbursed to the workers and then, only subsequently, on the basis of payments made to the worker, the fund can become a worker in the relevant procedure. In addition, certain costs for the Fund's staff reorganisation and new procedures monitoring applications would likely also arise. We certainly agree with the proposaler's words that the current situation is criminal for individual workers, but we believe that this proposal does not adequately resolve and that it is weak, which is also evident in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes not to support the law contained in that provision and proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u119	Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a new law on the guarantee and maintenance fund. It was decided by the mother labour body that the amendment of the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, which the applicant is the State Council, was not suitable for further consideration. With such a decision, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group agree, and we will therefore support it. In doing so, we agree with the Government's view that the solutions proposed are not the right way to solve the problem, and of course they represent a much more financial obligation for the country. The bill itself is also not legally consistent with our domestic legislation, which is the law governing financial transactions and insolvency and forced termination procedures. It also does not correspond to the international legal regulation or the European Workers' Protection Directive in the event of insolvency. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also had a similar view on the proposal for a novel. Of course, this does not mean that, by rejecting the bill, our parliamentary group denies the existence of a problem which, in the event of the employer's incapacity to pay, must be faced by workers whose economic situation and, consequently, the situation of their families in such cases becomes extremely poor. In the DeSUS Group, we have assessed that the problem of insolvency and the problem of insolvency is much more complex and therefore requires a comprehensive and broader approach to their elimination. Interventions are needed in the field of labour law and bankruptcy. The criminal liability for deliberately causing corporate inefficiencies should be strengthened, and the tax administration should be more rigorous and consistent in the recovery of contributions and taxes, and the Labour Inspectorate should have more competence and their work should be more effective, in particular because of the knowledge that employers, as far as they are concerned, are paid for by working relationships, are extremely resourceful, of course to the detriment of the worker. As stated in the introduction, the DeSUS Group agrees that this bill is not suitable for further consideration. However, we call on the Government to approach as soon as possible a comprehensive solution to the problem, which burdens the economy in a broader sense and consequently employees in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u121	Good day to you all! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of the situation in the Slovenian economy and the plight of workers, but despite the good intentions of the law's proponents, we cannot support it. For this we have a number of reasons to state the most important ones that led us to this decision. The International Labour Organisation Convention No 173 on the protection of workers' claims in the event of insolvency of their employer has enabled Member States to choose between three ways of ensuring the protection of workers' claims. Firstly, by providing labour claims with the priority right to pay their claims to other creditors; secondly, by ensuring the protection of labour claims by guaranteeing the payment of their claims through the guarantee institution and thirdly, by a combination of both ways. In our legal order, this protection is provided to workers through a combination of protection, with a priority payment and with a guarantee through a guarantee institution, thereby following international practices. The proposed regime is not comparable to those known by EU countries and to the development of the world. Applicants with the proposed law also want to provide protection to workers in cases where the worker has not stopped working if the employer is more than three months late to pay the workers. While everyone would like workers to receive their dues in time for their work, the proposed arrangement does not comply with the principle of business independence and respect for contractual relations. The State is obliged by the regulations and supervision of their implementation and by measures to ensure respect for contractual relations, but cannot take the place of the parties to the employment relationship, i.e. the worker and the employer, and by replacing the employer's function, pay the workers. In this case, it would be an illegal lending of certain companies by the State, which would put other companies and other workers at a disadvantage. Although the applicants argue otherwise, the proposed regulation would also have a fundamental impact on the state budget, thereby jeopardising the payment of other obligations already undertaken by the State and other existing rights of citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian People's Party, we see solutions elsewhere, namely to improve insolvency procedures and regulations, with faster solutions for firms in difficulty, and in particular the solution to measures that will ensure the better competitiveness of our economy, which can and will not forgive and which will pay wages and other legal and contractual obligations to workers within the deadline and the amount they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u123	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The problem of late payment of wages and, more often, the failure to pay workers in Slovenia has become a very pressing problem in recent years. It touches the growing number of workers who have done their job but have not received payment for their work. The applicants have rightly warned that employers are late or are not complying with contractual obligations to workers. Workers are not paid their wages and the consequences of non-compliance with contractual obligations are borne exclusively by workers, so identifying this problem is entirely appropriate. But let me go through this problem a little bit in the past. This problem in Slovenia is not from yesterday. It is true that we are in a great hurry to put things in the right place by taking action in the field. Therefore, the question of what has actually been done in recent years in this area is entirely on the spot. Given that this is a proposal and that this issue has been warned and pointed out long ago, we have been following it since 2008. Secondly, what seems important and problematic to me is the proposed solutions or solutions to this problem. The amendments and additions to the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund affect the basic concept of this law. The beneficiaries under this law and following this proposal would be those who are in a working relationship, but the employer has not paid their salaries for months and not only the workers who have ceased their employment relationship. The current legal regime gives such a worker a number of options to take action since the extraordinary termination of the employment contract, the recovery of unpaid salaries, the inspection procedure and could also be listed. However, all these options are not really effective protection for a worker to get money for a decent job, at least not for a short period of time. I would stress the need to establish some new legal frameworks that will protect workers. According to the New Slovenia Group, the legal framework for the reform of different, sectoral legislation is appropriate, both labour law and insolvency legislation, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will certainly have to prepare in a short time. Thirdly, we cannot agree with the proposaler that this law would have no major financial implications. It would have significant financial implications, for which the question is whether we have some real framework capacity in the current situation. We cannot ignore these fiscal aspects, even though this is a rather poor comfort for those who are affected. The budget is as full as it is. It's more empty than full these days, we hear it every day. It is therefore necessary to approach with great regularity any revision of legislation with greater financial impact during the time of the austerity measures. The New Slovenia Group will not support this law and proposes that an appropriate law be drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The purpose of the amendments to the law is to ensure at least a minimum of social security for workers and workers; for those workers and workers who have not received a monthly salary for more than three months in a row for the work done by their employer. The law does not provide for additional financial resources, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum. The fund would have taken on its role at the time of paying the employee’s unpaid salary. Therefore, the role of the new creditor and the debtor in relation to the employer to the amount of the cash paid. This is also the principle of the operation of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. And the country, I believe you'll all agree, is easier to recover your debt than an individual. The practice has shown that a large number of workers find themselves in an extremely difficult situation where they do not receive monthly wages from their employer, and for various reasons no bankruptcy proceedings have been introduced or bankruptcy proceedings have been put in place for a very long time. Thus, these workers remain unemployed or without any means of survival during this interim period. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and the Secretary of State mentioned this today, believes that these workers can submit a proposal for bankruptcy if they do not receive monthly salaries themselves – and it should be noted that the costs of approximately EUR 3 000 should also be paid – or that they give their employer an exceptional cancellation of the contract of employment, they apply as unemployed persons at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment and receive a cash refund there. In their view, according to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we could resolve our economic and social difficulties – I am talking about these workers. It is clear, however, that the Ministry has also overlooked that the claim of workers, unpaid salaries, is not primarily paid out of bankruptcy if these workers themselves cancel their employment contracts prior to bankruptcy or bankruptcy. On the board, as well as today, we are all aware that the failure to pay workers' monthly wages is a problem. We've heard that a few times today. I have a problem with that supplement, 'but some find it', 'but some of this proposal does not support the law'. I wonder why it has stopped at a measure which represents State aid to these people. If the law is not fully granted, the law may be corrected by amendments in the parliamentary procedure. Therefore, once again, if we all find that the law is necessary, but is not systematically granted, why did the parental committee say no to this law and prohibit further consideration and correction of the amendment law? I will say that I really understand the opposition of the Government as part of the proposed austerity measures in the area of social policy. Undisputed rejection of the law means continuation, I hope to say, of some kind of neoliberal policy. However, with some government measures already announced, specifically in the field of flexicurity, I am rightly afraid that the worker will be able to reduce unemployment benefits and reduce the time taken by the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, just to remind myself that the Government has proposed lowering unemployment benefits and reducing the time taken – that the worker will be even more vulnerable. By the way, when the government as well as some coalition Members are referring to a more comprehensive measure – a system law. Certain measures are included in the whole law, the mega law that we will be considering in the coming days of the National Assembly. This is the law where he fixes 49 laws in one or one stroke. That's how the government represents comprehensive systemic solutions. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will oppose the decision of the committee, which is negative, and, as we say, we support solutions that we consider to be good and would make sense in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again. In the SDS Group, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. There are several reasons. I've already mentioned some of them in the report. The legislative and legal service stressed that the amendments to the law affect other areas, particularly the scope of the Financial Business Act and the regulation of insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Another time. We also oppose the law because the Government also opposes it. Such an opinion was also given by Minister Svetlik, the Ministry in the new mandate remains the same, so that the law is not suitable for further consideration, since it does not take into account the need to provide workers previously in the budget with additional funds which will later be very difficult to pay from the claim to the employer who has already been unable to pay for three months. Nor does it have to be calculated that there is no need to provide additional resources. According to estimates, the Fund should pay around €13 million in 2011 according to data, while in 2011 the Fund managed to raise only €1.56 million from subrogations. This means that high financial resources are needed, even though my predecessors said that this is not the case. In addition, there could be abuse, as the employer would not have paid the wages because he would have felt that the state would take care of it and would have ensured it from the fund. It is interesting to consider this law that Members who were formerly coalition and would probably have defended the position of former Minister Svetlik at the moment when they became opposition Members have changed their views and today advocate that the law should be amended. In the SDS, as we are told, we are aware that the problem of non-payment of wages is large, but the amendment of the law will not solve this, so we will support the conclusion that the law is not appropriate and we expect from the Government what it has promised, i.e. a more comprehensive solution under the new labour law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u129	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues welcome! Social Democrats have not supported the conclusion on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund is not suitable for further consideration. We note that the economic situation is not improving, and solutions need to be found without delay, which will be more effective than they are now protecting workers than weaker parties in insolvency proceedings. According to estimates by the Agency for Public Records and Services, insolvency proceedings between Slovenian companies will be more than in previous years in 2011, as the number of bankruptcys, forced settlement and liquidations started in the first quarter of this year was 46% higher than in the comparable period in 2010. The law on the guarantee and maintenance fund provides that the beneficiaries under this law are workers who have ceased their employment relationship due to the insolvency of the employer. The new law proposed by the State Council would also extend the range of beneficiaries to those workers whose employment has not yet ceased, but the employer has not paid them three consecutive salaries due to its poor financial situation. Social Democrats are aware that appropriate solutions should be sought in insolvency law. Although we have changed the Financial Operations Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures several times in the previous term, regulation still does not provide sufficient protection for workers' rights in companies subject to forced settlement and bankruptcy. While the government is also predicting a reform of labour law and the establishment of a retirement fund, the legal security of workers in insolvency proceedings should also be improved. However, we believe that solutions that would at least alleviate the hardships of workers due to unpaid salaries and contributions are needed immediately, given that the situation is worsening at the daily level and that workers are increasingly in such an unfair situation. We therefore regret that, with the necessary corrections to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we have not supported the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee Fund as a transitional solution for the benefit of the most vulnerable workers. You're saying there would also be major financial consequences. You know, they come today, not in the country, but in the pocket of those who have nothing to eat because of unpaid wages. That's why it's a perfect setup. It follows from this that the Members of the Group of Social Democrats will object to that decision of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Nationals of Gregor Virant, mag. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to all of you in the hall! The proposed law aims to establish an institute for the compensation of unpaid salaries. The bill seeks to resolve the economic situation of workers who still have a working relationship with an insolvent employer, but it has not paid them three consecutive salaries due to their poor financial situation. The remuneration would be obtained by the Fund, which would then go against the employer as a creditor, up to the amount of the funds paid to the worker. The content of the proposed provisions of the law should be thoroughly considered from a legal system's point of view, while at the same time assessing whether the imposition of remuneration provides an adequate level of legal and material protection for the rights of workers sought by the applicant. In the proposal for a law, the solution is not clear, nor does the entitlement to end the worker's working relationship, nor to end the employment relationship later due to the employer's insolvency procedure, and allows the worker to exercise the right to pay unpaid salaries for a period of three months even for different periods of time. The assessment by the applicants that the proposal for a law has no financial implications for the state budget is not true. The bill substantially amends the law now in force, as it substantially extends the range of beneficiaries and thus interferes with the purpose of the guarantee institution. Since we understand the plight of workers in the Civil Gazette, we propose that better and more lasting solutions be found than those given in the proposed law, since the proposed amendments constitute a non-systemic intervention in the legislation in force. We propose that a more comprehensive reform of labour law be made, as we cannot afford additional drawbacks from the state budget in these difficult times, as proposed in the amendment to the law. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will therefore support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in the framework of the vote today, following the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE MODERN PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Health Committee, as a mother labourer, proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Ms Hercegovac for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u133	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and friends, dear guests! The Health Committee shall meet at its 1st regular session on 4. 4. 2012 was treated as a working mother body by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Peter Požun, Councillor of State, provided the reasons for the proposal for the law on behalf of the proposer. He pointed out that the main objective of the bill was to prevent the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance from setting out the criteria and conditions under which a contribution may be reduced or cancelled by certain undertakings for the payment of the health insurance contribution. That objective shall be thus addressed by the applicant by deleting Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Act, allowing for the supervision of the accounting and payment of contributions to continue to be exercised by an institution which confers powers on the accounting, control, payment and recovery of contributions to the competent service in accordance with the specific law. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar, who stressed that the Government does not support and propose to the National Assembly that it does not accept it. The government is preparing legal changes in the field of healthcare and health insurance, which will also systematically and comprehensively regulate the scope of reducing or cancelling the debt of the health insurance contribution. In accordance with Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative and technical aspect, and has drawn up a comment on Article 1, which constitutes a legal basis in the law in force for determining the criteria and conditions under which certain taxpayers may be reduced or cancelled. For the purpose of determining the criteria and conditions, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is responsible for issuing for this purpose the rules on write-off, periodic payment and deferral of the payment of the debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the text of the bill is incomplete, as no repeal of the Regulation itself is proposed. It is also not appropriate to take into account the extension of the application to date of the legal regime of procedures concerning the authorisation of a reduction or cancellation of the payment of contributions, as set out in Article 2 of the draft law. In the debate, the President of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia stressed that the Chamber does not support that proposal, but also disagrees with the partial resolution of that issue. The representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance pointed out that a decision had been taken at the Assembly of the Institute in December 2011 to introduce in this area the principle that contributions could not be written off as could not be done for all legal persons. Financial discipline is important for all who pay contributions. The Institute is trying to recover all the contributions, but it happens that some cannot be recovered and there can be speculation. They support the bill with corrections. The representative of the Slovenian Medical Society stressed that the company supports the proposal to address the problem, but only within the framework of a comprehensive and systematic approach to regulating legislation in this area. In the debate, some members of the Committee felt that the bill should be adopted because this area was not regulated and in the current situation it would also facilitate the current financial situation of the insurance undertaking. The fact is that systemic and comprehensive regulation has been waiting too long since it has not yet joined the reforms in the field of health care and health insurance. Contrary to the opinion, the members of the committee who disagreed with the proposal for a law were members of the committee because they were partial in addressing the problem and a system law was being drawn up within the Government, which would fully regulate the area of healthcare and health insurance. On the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted a decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Petr Požun as the proposer of the bill for presentation of the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u135	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, Members, Madam Secretary of State! The purpose of the law introduced in the State Council was, of course, to pay legally prescribed contributions which are part of the gross salary of each insured person and thus to ensure the stability of the financing of the Institute for Health Insurance and the maintenance of the principle of solidarity and reciprocity as a fundamental principle of health insurance. The draft law was agreed upon by all stakeholders of the Health Insurance Office, Ministry of Health, Association of Health Institutions. The fact that the law was needed, useful and consistent and that it is urgently needed also proves that it is currently included in the intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Government of Brigitte Čokl, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, to introduce the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u137	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much to all present. The Ministry of Health, with this novel, will say, which deals with only one article, Article 60, does not really agree for a simple reason, as Mrs Mag has already said. Leila Hercegovac, that comprehensive solutions are prepared within the framework of the proposal for a bill to balance public finances, which will also address this issue. The proposal for a novel Law on healthcare and health insurance is materially flawed and does not foresee all the legal consequences of deleting this Article 60 and is poorly prepared by nomotechnical and editorial means. An appropriate transitional period should be laid down for the write-off and deferral procedures already in progress, a sub-legislative act issued on its basis should be repealed, i.e. the write-off Regulation, the periodic payment and the deferral of the payment of the debt on the basis of compulsory health insurance contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u139	Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Representatives of the Government, of the Council of State! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the decision of the Health Committee, which says that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The Group does not support the proposal for a law deleting the legal basis for a reduction or cancellation of the payment of the health insurance contribution to the institution under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the Rules of Procedure. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we understand and appreciate the purpose of the drafter of the law, this is the State Council, because we also think that all the debtors are equal and that employers are obliged to pay contributions and thus insurance for their workers. The non-payment of contributions violates the rights of employees and adds to the burden of a health treasury which is in a difficult situation. The government is preparing legislative changes, which will also integrate and systemically regulate the scope of reducing or cancelling the debt of the contribution to health insurance provided for in Article 60 of the Law, as it has provided in its opinion and as the Minister has said again. We agree with the opinion delivered by the Minister on the Committee that we need to address some other shortcomings in the accounting and payment of contributions that are charged and paid to different groups. That is why the law before us will not be supported and we will therefore vote in favour of the Committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u141	Madam Vice President, colleagues, representatives of the government, good afternoon! We will also present our position, in New Slovenia we advocate a solidarity system and social security for all people with daily access to health services at the primary and secondary levels. We believe that the current system of regulation of individual rights from compulsory health insurance is somewhat misplaced. This inadequacy, however, has still stalled their application in practice through more or less long bureaucratic procedures. Solidarity in health insurance and equality of people in rights and in the treatment of health activities is certainly the basis pursued by health insurance and health systems in Europe, but, in addition to the principle of solidarity, there is also a need to introduce reciprocity, which comes mainly from a voluntary decision, but not only from obligations. In the view of New Slovenia, some other additions and amendments to the basic Health and Health Insurance Act are also necessary and it is appropriate to regulate them in an integrated manner. At the meeting of the Committee of the Mother Labour Body, the representative of the Government assured the Government that this would be regulated in the amendment of the law. So in New Slovenia we advocate a comprehensive solution and preparation of such a national programme, where the rights and obligations of the various insurance companies will be clear and transparent. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the decision of the parent working body, so that this law, which we are considering today, is not suitable for further consideration because we estimate that partial resolution of the situation does not constitute a definitive solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The text is by the delegation of Positive Slovenia, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! The law was introduced by the State Council, in coordination with the Health Insurance Office, and until recently the law was supported by the Home Ministry. The reasons why marriage is needed would not be added, since they have already been mentioned. The fact is that the adopted content of this Act would eliminate the existing legal anomaly which allows non-payment of compulsory health insurance contributions and, at the latter stage, even the write-off of these claims, which constitutes a violation of the principle of solidarity and reciprocity, and also a minor inflow to health care. According to the bill adopted, up to €50 million could be added to the health treasury within a few years, according to the applicant's assessment. According to the Minister of Health, on 4 April this year, on the Health Committee, the Ministry generally agrees that the failure to pay contributions in a state where the health care is cash is harmful. On the other hand, the Ministry is preparing an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act in its entirety, including the abolition of the possibility of non-payment of contributions. In short, it makes no sense to change things at this time, because the government will prepare a systemic solution in the roof law and, on the other hand, the government, according to the Minister, will quote it, "with the proposed intervention measures, ensures the sustainability of the medical treasury this year". End of story. If I sum up the content of the law, the government does not support the law because it is not systemic, so it will prepare its own. 50 million euros, as far as the adoption of the law could contribute to the budget, is a negligible amount for the Government at this time because it is an intervention law, which is the mega law that has not yet been passed in this year ensuring the sustainability of the health treasury. More. On 4 April this year, the Minister said, quote, "The assessment was adopted that the changes are meaningful to work not within the framework of the intervention law". And I'll tell you what the situation is today, April 19, 2012. The government still supports the content, the law still does not support it, but its content has been incorporated into the intervention law, that's the law or it went against what the minister said 4. 4. at a meeting of the parental committee. In short, the intervention law will address the solution that we have today on the table. So many more about, I'll say, systemic and comprehensive solutions to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say that it is no longer obvious that the Government is making fun of the opposition, and not least from its coalition members, from the State Council, from the health insurance company and in the final phase of human beings. The representative of the Ministry said today that the Government does not support the law, among other things, because no amendments were tabled on the home labour body on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. I say that this is simply not the case, the amendment has been tabled, the amendment has been debated and the vote taken. And if that were the case, I will summarize only the words of the SDS representative on the parent's working body, which he said, quote, "that we will reject this law by rejecting this amendment as well". Who makes fun of whom, respectable colleagues and colleagues? The government has made a change that we are considering in the intervention law today, and it is true that the solution announced by the minister in the entire intervention law, mega law, means, according to our assessment, a non-systemic solution. The consequences of these non-systemic solutions will, however, liberalise the health insurance market with the possibility of involving foreign insurance companies. Here health insurance is no longer in the public interest, respectable colleagues and all those who have talked today about how public insurance or health care must be accessible to all under the same conditions. In this case, health insurance will become in the interest of individual insurance companies, i.e. the market. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we are still in the position that such a solution must be supported, so this time we will also oppose the negative decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u145	Good bye to all of you! Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellowship, Member of the Council of State and Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! It is clear that the Council of State had a good purpose when it sent to the Council of State a proposal to amend and supplement the Health and Health Insurance Act, which in Article 60 amends the possibility for the Health Insurance Office to determine the criteria and conditions under which certain taxpayers may cancel, write off or allow the payment of the arrears. The aim of the amendment of the law is certainly to make the inflow to health care more expensive, as we know that the gap between the funds collected and the funds needed for health care is increasing over the last year. According to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the revenues in 2011 amounted to EUR 2 billion 340 million. Unpaid contributions over the last ten years, from 2002 to 2011, amounted to €75 million and €568,000 in 2011. It is certainly not a matter of negligible resources, but it is impossible to recover from those who have nothing to do with it. The government disagrees with the proposed solution, not because it might not be useful, but because it is preparing, as we have heard many times today, a system law on healthcare, health insurance. This area, however, has been included in the intervention law on the balance of public finances, which has already arrived at the National Assembly. And as I said, the government is preparing a system law on healthcare and health insurance. We know that two government mandates have been preparing this. I'm sure at least the minister promises that by the end of the year this law will be in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we voted on the Health Committee against this legislative amendment or on the Committee's decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration. We will vote the same today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Hello again! Dearly respected, the problem of damage to insured persons due to non-payment of contributions to pension and health insurance is particularly pronounced in Slovenia in recent years, which has been further contributed by the economic crisis, which has exacerbated the financial situation of many companies. In its consideration on the Committee, the SD Group supported the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, the basic purpose of which was to delete the legal basis which allows certain undertakings to pay their health insurance contributions to be reduced or cancelled. In this way, the health treasury, whose deficit will amount to more than €100 million this year at annual level, would obtain additional funds. We believe that the adoption of a bill to address the problem of non-payment of contributions would be the only logical and reasonable move. This could immediately improve the health allowance situation in a way that would ensure that those liable to pay health insurance contributions are in a more equal position. It is also irrelevant that last November the Constitutional Court repealed the provision of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in that part which allows write-offs, partial write-offs or allows for the deferral of contributions to compulsory pension insurance. In the light of the drastic austerity measures envisaged in the proposal for a budget rebalancing in the area of health and leading to the deprivation of existing health rights of the inhabitants and residents of our country, it was very difficult to understand the position of the Government and the ruling coalition, which did not support the proposal for a new law on the Committee, saying that they wanted to resolve the problem of non-payment of health insurance contributions in the context of a comprehensive amendment to the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. In reviewing the content of the proposal for a bill to balance public finances, the so-called my law, we can see that the Government has summed up between the provisions precisely this solution, which has been written in the draft law that we have before us today. This raises the question whether the debate on the committee responsible has, however, drawn attention to the fact that the problem of non-payment of health insurance contributions needs to be addressed as soon as possible, or whether, on the other hand, it is the move of the Government, which the proposal to reject the proposal before us, is understood by the fact that it wishes to implement its will in any case. In short, it's about prestigious purposes. It certainly follows from this that the Members of the SD Group do not intend to support the Committee's proposal, but we will support a positive opinion on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Gregor Virant, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u149	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! Payment discipline has been one of the hottest business themes in Slovenia and the developed market economies of Europe for more than a decade. In times of financial crisis, payment discipline is all the more important, both in the business of an individual and in the business of an undertaking. Unfortunately, current trends do not indicate that anything would change significantly in this area. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that payment non-discipline is unacceptable and one of the reasons for economic problems. The public interest of all of us must be the effective functioning of the rule of law, including the settlement of obligations equally for all, from the largest to the smallest. The proposed amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act should follow. Regrettably, in more detail, it can be concluded that the deletion of Article 60 will not solve problems due to the non-payment of unpaid health contributions. The fact is that the current Health and Health Insurance Act and the write-off Regulation of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia prevent the write-off of irregular obligations to legal persons, which is a pressing problem. Therefore, it is currently possible to write off only to natural persons, in extremely rare cases where there is a social hazard and irrecovery due to death. The amount of debt write-offs shall also move accordingly. It should also be pointed out that the write-off of these debts could already take place on the basis of enforcement and insurance rules. The Government, the Medical Chamber and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia also disagree with the proposed amendments. As a result of the above facts, we also support the decision of the national working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u151	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Applicant, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group understand the basic intention of the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act. Unfortunately, we also join the opinion of the Government and the home labour body, which assesses that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. According to our assessment, legal changes need to be drawn up, which will also regulate the area of reducing or cancelling the debt of the health insurance contribution. As assessed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government, the proposal for a law to a sub-legislative act, i.e. a regulation which lays down the criteria and conditions for write-off or debt reduction and should be amended, is not defined. The proposal also does not provide for all the consequences of the deletion of Article 60 of the current law, but at the same time some editorial and nomotechnic corrections are needed, for example, the very title of the law is wrong, since it is only a matter of amending the law and not of supplementing it. It follows from all this that we will not support the proposed novel in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. However, we expect the Government to approach the system of health insurance as soon as possible, which will also include a change in the possibility of cancellation or debt reduction, as its Circus of €50 million is significantly poorer than the almost impoverished health treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. POINT OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AVENTATIVE EXPOSURE OF THE FOURTH PARAGRAPH 24. It's a member of the Local Love Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by the MEP. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as a parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it not adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President of the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its first meeting on 5 April 2012, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government addressed the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Elections. He was presented to the National Assembly by a Magi Member for consideration. Matthew Tonin. The applicant took up the reasons for the submission of the proposal of an authentic interpretation in the introduction. The legal provision referred to in Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Elections is not sufficiently clear and gives rise to legal uncertainty among its users. He highlighted the specific example of the municipality of Moravče, where the municipal council has 14 members. There's a mag next. Tonin also pointed out that after considering the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which considered that an authentic interpretation was not necessary in the right case and that its acceptance of the proposed form would even change the content of the standard, he intended to withdraw, but that business conditions were no longer met. Taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed amendments and additions to the Local Elections Act should be made in the legislative process, it will in future propose amendments and additions to Article 24 of the Law on Local Elections, which will also eliminate uncertainties. In its presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the proposed authentic interpretation was not necessary in their view, since it was not a provision which could not be established by established methods of interpretation. However, it is not admissible as the content of the standard would change by adopting the proposed authentic interpretation, which is not compatible with the institute of authentic interpretation. It also follows from the constitutional scratch that changes and additions to laws cannot be the subject of an authentic interpretation, but can be the subject of amendments and additions to the law which must be made in the legislative procedure. She also pointed out that the applicant justified the proposed authentic interpretation on a particular case and considered that the provision which was the subject of the proposal of an authentic interpretation was clear, but its meaning was different from that of the administrative court in the particular proceedings. The proposed interpretation should limit, in the view of the applicant, the arbitrary and incorrect decisions of the court. After the introductory part, the Committee referred to the question of whether the proposed authentic interpretation of the law should be adopted. In a short discussion, the members of the Committee expressed a single opinion against the need to adopt an authentic interpretation of the legal provision under consideration. The Committee then decided, pursuant to Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the following proposal for a decision: The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration considers that the authentic interpretation of Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Elections should be adopted. The Committee did not adopt that proposal. In view of this, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it not adopt a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. In order to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body, Matthew Tonin resigned because the president of the committee had already summarised the position of the applicant. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin. You're giving up? [[Yeah.]] The following is the word of the Group of Ambassadors: Positive Slovenia. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u155	The Group of Members does not support and joins in what the Committee has also adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The point under consideration is due to a specific case in which half of the municipality’s 7 out of 14 members of the municipal council withdrew quickly after the 2010 local elections. The municipal electoral commission shall be called for alternate elections pursuant to Article 30 of the Local Elections Act, which states that they shall be held if a member of the municipal council resigns earlier than six months after the term of office. The replacement elections are those in which not all members of the congregation council are therefore elected, but only as many members as there are vacant cities. At the decision of the municipal electoral commission, the other half of the councillors submitted a contested decision in the administrative court explaining that the electoral commission should call for an early election, which would take place under the Local Elections Act if at the same time the majority of the members of the municipal council resigned. The Administrative Court has established this, namely to challenge the acts of the municipal electoral commission of Moravče Municipality and, in its explanation, stated that the withdrawal of seven members of the municipal council from the total fourteen after mathematical calculation does not constitute a majority within the meaning of Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Elections, and that the municipal council, with the remaining seven members, is in a legal position when it is not concluded and therefore cannot legally take its decision within the meaning of Article 35, paragraph 1, of the Law on Local Self-Government, which means that the functioning of the municipal council has been disabled. In view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed authentic interpretation is not necessary or even inadmissible because of interference with other articles and because of the applicant's announcement that he will submit a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which will seek solutions in the legislative procedure for a comprehensive clarification of the dilemma, or that the withdrawal of half of the members of the Municipal Council constitutes a majority within the meaning of Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Elections and whether, as a consequence, there is a need to sign a replacement or early election, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group against the adoption of an authentic interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will be in line with the proposal for an authentic explanation, but the SD has indicated that you are cancelling. [[...]] You're withdrawing? If you wish, please, Mr Brulc, I give you my word, but it has been cancelled. Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, following the end of the 16th item of the agenda. So I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue in half an hour, which is at 3:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u159	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly, which is the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the handling of the Mandate- volitional matters. To this end, Ms Alenka Bikar and the Director of the State Election Commission, Mr Dusan Vukko, were additionally invited. Point 2.A. We are moving on to the consideration of the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. Since Mr Zoran Jankovic had terminated his mandate on 16 April 2012, the State Election Commission sent a statement to the National Assembly that the term of office of Member had passed on to Mrs Alenko Bikar. The findings were considered by the Mandate-Volution Commission as the parent working body, which is also preparing the report that you have received. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur of the Commission want a word? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. The MPs and the MPs? I am closing the debate and moving to a vote, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: Confirm the Ambassador's mandate, Alenka Bikar, born 7 January 1974, residing on the Road to the Council 7, Medvod. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I congratulate Ambassador Alenka Bikar and invite her to join us and occupy her post. / applause/ Dear colleague Alenka Bikar, I congratulate you and wish you the success of your post. There's gonna have to be some kind of marathon here sometime. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal to elect a candidate for judicial office at the District Court of Justice in Cerknica with a proposal for a decision and a proposal to elect a candidate for judicial office at the higher court of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana with a proposal for a decision. The Council of Justice submitted to the Assembly proposals on the election of candidates for judicial office to the District Court in the District Court in Cerknica and to the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were considered by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The mandate-holder committee made written reports and submitted proposals for decisions to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Barbara Petrič to the District Court of Justice in Cerknica. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 81 votes against no one. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Tadeja Winter Jenul to the judicial seat of the higher court in the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. It reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. This is not why we are moving to decision-making. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the discharge of Dr Andraz Terška's duties as members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 77 votes against no one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. This is not why we are moving to decision-making. To vote, I propose a decision on the discharge of Dr. Igor Shalamun from the functions of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Janez Barrett as a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Court in Cyprus for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Oriano Trunkl. The request was submitted to the National Assembly by the District Court in Cyprus. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. On the basis of Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to Article 207, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: The National Assembly shall, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the District Court in Cyprus to decide on a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Cyprus, Oriano Trunkl for a criminal offence of abuse of an official position or of official rights under the second paragraph of Article 257 of the Penal Code, not recognise the immunity of the judge of Oriani Trunkl and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 58 votes against 15. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Ljubljana, Investigation Department, on the introduction of criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Mark Pogačnik. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana for consideration. It was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the State and submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification by the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Section, of 21 March 2012 concerning the imposition of criminal proceedings against the MP of the National Assembly of Mags. Mark Pogačnik for a criminal offence under Articles 244/2 and 1 of the Penal Code does not grant immunity to a member of the National Assembly of Magi. Mark Pogačnik and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It was 80 votes against 1. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a new Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The proposal was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members for consideration by the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on discharge by the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission and the appointment of Mr Dragutin Mate as Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There's 83 votes against no one. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. The draft decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the National Assembly. We don't have any applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 6. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision on the termination of the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. As of 18 April 2012, Ambassador Ivan Simčič was no longer a member of the DeSUS Group and the National Assembly was informed by Article 200, 201 and 212 of the Rules of Procedure of the State: Mr Ivan Simčič, on 18 April 2012, was no longer a member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr Ivan Simčič, Vice-President of the Committee on Infrastructure and Freedom, shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the DeSUS Group. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. I'm sorry, it's just a statement. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. The draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? No one wants to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Marija Plevčak, DeSUS Group, as Vice-President of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[It's 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. First, we will vote on the matters dealt with today by the National Assembly before the adjournment of the meeting, then we will vote on the 1st item, which we discussed on Monday, and then on the matters dealt with yesterday. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I also inform you that the Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none.). [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies, so we can vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term loan liabilities of €440 million, leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the replacement block project 6 at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for liabilities from a long-term loan of EUR 440 million leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the project of the replacement block of EUR 6 600 megawatts at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj is suitable for further consideration. Explanations of votes. First, on behalf of the Group of Members. If you'd like to sign up, please, if you'd like to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members. No one checked in. Does anyone want to explain the voice individually? I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. I give the word "magic." Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very short. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There's been a lot of writing, a lot of saying lately. I believe that energy can be a lucrative business and that at the same time it is a business of the future for our country, but you know, when we are or when I have watched the intervention law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I simply do not perceive this dishonesty and this duality that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is going through. Today I believe that – and I also believe in colleagues who will support this proposal because they come from the region – I will say that it is in the interest of the region to get this project. It's gonna happen. On the other hand, I wonder – The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the intervention law of the so-called mega law lowers the financial resources already adopted in the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik. These are essential means of closing down works that constitute degradation from the mining of a ruined environment. To see what comparison it's about, I'll tell you in numbers. Today we are talking about a guarantee of €440 million. In the case of RTH, we are talking about funding by law set at EUR 14 million, which is reduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to 7 million this year and over the next three years in the fights of EUR 5 million. That's 31 times less, that's over 400 million euros less. There the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not care, so, excuse me, but I cannot say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the agreement we have reached both in the College and in the informal meeting of the leaders of the Group. We agreed that we would stay in several rounds of explanations of vote, but at the same time we agreed to follow the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which speak of explanations of vote. My colleague, Žgajner Tavš, I must remind you that what we have just heard would be difficult to say only the explanation of the voice and that we stick to the subject that we are deciding on in explanation of our vote. The agreement was that the explanation of vote meant that the Member or Member of Parliament should say whether it would vote in favour or against and give its reasons. Mr. Dejan Židan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u162	I am pleased that these rules will apply both to the opposition and to the coalition, Mr President. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! How a politician or a government or a National Assembly or a Member should decide when arguments are irrelevant does not matter what we think about providing jobs for people bound to the Thermoelectric Power Plant, and on the other hand, it does not matter what we think of the environment being burdened, that we are both late in Slovenia in environmental directives, in water directives, that our air is too weak and that is why we will probably pay the penalties. This is about something else. This is about how a policy should react if it is put before an enforcement fact. Or as politicians, we can allow anyone, and in this case, of course, this construction, to put us ahead of the accomplished fact. Then the argument is, "If you don't confirm what we've already done, you'll do the damage." I personally believe that this is not the way policy should go forward, and that is why, and thus also why I will justify the vote, Mr President-respected, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'm reopening my application to explain my vote. Please, you can sign up. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this proposal because the construction will continue. We're talking about bail. If the guarantee doesn't work, it'll cost more. It means that the loan will have to be obtained by HSE or the Šostanj Termoelectrica or perhaps by someone else, but in this case we will encourage the construction by at least EUR 100 million. In this situation that we are in today, I think it is pointless to discuss whether the guarantee would be or not. So, the guarantee – yes, conditionally to carry out the audit that we have already discussed today to determine how the construction has been done and to sanction those who have been neglectful, let us say that they have been sloppy or even harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. If there is no more desire to explain my vote, I am putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 33. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, as part of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 35. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that the legislative procedure for the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 24 of the Law on Local Elections. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 24 of the Law on Local Elections is not adopted. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the procedure for the acceptance of an authentic explanation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek in relation to the austerity measures. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Please, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the answer we received the last time from the President of the Government, we certainly cannot be satisfied. We agree that fiscal consolidation is absolutely necessary, but it is not true that it is necessary in such a way and in such a way as you have done it and you are proposing it. For the last time, I've given an example of a five-member family that will be reduced by your actions to a month for a thousand euros. You have also been calculated by two civil initiatives. Now I'm going to add, especially to my colleagues from NSI who are fighting for family policy, and this mommy who writes this comes from that traditional family of yours. A 33 - year - old mother of two writes that she is three times pregnant and that if she knew about your austerity measures, she would unfortunately not have decided for this third child. If this is a policy that we will all support together, especially you, I will say, we can be very disappointed. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal that is proposed, because we want nothing more than to discuss this and the measures proposed and to discuss what and what measures will lead us to a better outcome. We are not sure — or certainly — those you propose are not heading in the direction that will lead us to a better course. Which is why I certainly expect your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u167	I'm just going to ask for an application on behalf of the parliamentary groups for explanations of vote. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u168	I would only point out that it seems strange for my colleague Bratuškova to talk and dramatize about these things because things are still going on. These things are still being negotiated, we're still talking, things aren't yet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u169	Mag. Tonin, this is not a replica, if I may warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u170	No, that's the explanation for the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u171	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u172	As these things continue to flow, what Mrs Bratuškov proposed is unnecessary. And that's why I'm going to vote against it because we can't discuss something that hasn't been decided at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u173	There's no replica. Mr. Janez Fishich has given up. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, in fact, you have already announced in advance that by explaining your voice you will give a replica, but good. I call for individual statements for explanations of vote. I would like to ask that we stick to talking about how we will vote and give reasons. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u174	I will vote in favour of Mrs Bratuška's procedural proposal. This is due to the fact that we have a law on the table that we will talk about in the coming weeks and which has a fatal impact on the situation of Slovenian families, young mothers, children, pensioners, Slovenian unemployed and so on. Today is the time to debate Mr Tonin, today is the time to debate when we can still change the harmful decisions for Slovenia. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u175	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour, absolutely for and not as Mr Tonin says, that it is not yet decided. Yes, God have mercy, you'll decide something first, then we'll discuss it. Where are we going? Here this institution is called Parliament to talk and negotiate and, in the end, to agree on the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and not to allow individuals to make their own decisions. But see, dear colleagues, in the coalition contract you have written down that you will strive for a greater culture of dialogue, political culture. I can see it's not going in the right direction. That's what I'm worried about, and you should be worried about it, too. So I'm asking you to stick to what you wrote down so you won't be talking again, doing the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u177	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much. When a colleague of Bratuškov presented the story of one of the mothers and mentioned the story of the two parents, some of the fellow Members on the left were disgusted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the reality is today, but I will not say it is a nuisance, but the worrying measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are. Colleague Tonin – The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken these measures and sent them to the National Assembly and it is right for the National Assembly to hold a debate before these measures are adopted. My colleague Bratušek asked for support in having a general discussion earlier on the response of the President of the Government on his reply, which he was, I believe is wrapped up in a great deal of cynicism. And to that, because then I will not speak again, I myself have asked the question of a Member to Minister Visiak, and I myself have requested a supplement or proposed an expanded debate. Minister Vizjak and thus the whole government does not have a strategy in the field of family protection or family policy. So, at the same time, I am asking for support in the next proposal. Thank you. But I will absolutely support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u179	Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thanks again. I don't know why you're so afraid to discuss this, but it's really strange that we'll discuss this after things are adopted, Mr Tonin. Perhaps the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would just change and we would end the debate and, once things are adopted, we would talk a little bit about how we would change them back, once. In your coalition contract, it also says, so about, "the coalition partners are committed to ensuring that the benefits for children and other maintenance of family members remain at least at the existing level". So hard things go together. Nothing else we want from all of you today or from all of us who are here to let each other know what would make sense and what would be right in this country. If it's hard to understand and support, then I really don't know where we are anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u181	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'll reopen the application. Please, the application is in progress. The voice will explain the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u182	I will vote against it in my personal name. However, I am appalled at the ignorance of the Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, because they are simply politically misleading the public, and I will explain why. They well know if the matter is adopted in the Government and if it is not adopted in Parliament, the matter is not accepted and is not definitive. And another thing proves politics, Mrs. Bratusek. Why? Because all these measures that you are talking about today will be discussed in the context of the debate on the Public Finance Balance Act. All these measures will be covered by this law and all these measures will be discussed. And what you're doing today is typical politics, and I certainly wouldn't expect that from the constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u183	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u184	I won't support the proposal. I will not support him because the response of the President of the Government was very exact and clear. The measures you are talking about today could not be discussed further, what you want, but we will talk about this when the measures are on the table and in the context of the rebalancing. But in the end, colleagues and colleagues, why are we in this situation, why must we take such measures? Because some of you who are sitting in this House today have been responsible for your official duties, legally responsible for respecting the laws, including the Public Finance Act, but you have not, and you have been in breach of the law and you have not responded. But since you're not, you have a better job today. But that's why it's gonna be bad for citizens and citizens. Today, with these measures, we try to drive things in some way so that those who have already paid for the recession will be least affected. But if we listened to you, of course, we'd have put this country on the line. That's what you wanted. Thank God you didn't make it. And I believe you'll never be.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u185	Nor was that an explanation for the voice. And I must conclude that at this point, the Rules of Procedure are in grave breach. The explanation of votes has turned into debate and controversy and replication. This was never the purpose of the Rules of Procedure on Explanation. And once again, I would ask you to stick to it, or we will move on to practice so that we can call for a declaration on our own, as it has been said, if we are not able to keep our agreements. Who would want to explain the voice? I'm calling for an application. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a general debate on this item. The reason why I'm going to vote in favour. There's more than one reason. One of them is that laws that are very important for citizens and citizens are adopted in the National Assembly after an extremely rapid or urgent procedure where there is no general debate. And the proposal, which went, went in the direction of a general debate, of course to get answers from the Government and from the Government's response to the questions that appear to our citizens and citizens when they talk about, of course, the measures proposed by the Government, they violate or destroy, they work destruction within the social state and within the rights that have been acquired. Our desire and initiative was to hold a very open debate, in which, of course, even a coalition, if it had an argument, unfortunately it does not, said why it does not work in the way proposed by the opposition, in a way which, of course, does not concern social rights or the social rights of our citizens and citizens, for which almost 100,000 people protested yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Roman Jakich. Mr. Dejan Jidan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I'll vote for it myself. I would also like the current coalition to understand this as a framework for cooperative cooperation, constructive cooperation, as this will allow us to make your actions more resourceful and in the interest of the Slovenian state with our debate, which will follow this way. And by voting in favour of Mrs Alenka's proposal, you will confirm that, with a serious debate, you are also seriously considering the opposition's participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majda Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of mags. Majde Potrat related to the proposed austerity measures in education and science. Mag. Majda Potrat, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have asked the President of the Government a question which, while referring to austerity measures, goes beyond merely saving on education, which is marked by a lack of 110 million for higher education and science and 174 million for education, but it is clear from the documents submitted that these are profound systemic changes. However, the issue of education policy is something that the National Assembly should discuss in particular because the National Assembly has already adopted a national higher education programme and has written down some decisions that limit the public finances' obligations to finance private tertiary education, which define what the policy of establishing universities defining the question of tuition should be. And now, if we go to look at the measures that have been submitted, either in the National Reform Programme or in the law that we have received, which will cover 45 laws. All these measures already clearly indicate where the policy is headed. And it is not possible to understand the relationship between temporary or short-term measures and those that will actually have far-reaching consequences, but that the public has seen what it means to increase the number of students in the departments. However, little remains to be said about the fact that it is also very important to set a limit on how many students should be in the classroom, that is 24, which affects especially small schools. The consequences will be long-term. And I think that this is really a topic that we should discuss responsibly and get an opinion from the profession, and then the President of the Government would not refer to statistics that do not support international comparisons, because when we refer to international comparisons, we need to know what we are comparing with. And the work obligation of teachers shows, at least in the last ten years, great stability. It means that this is a very sensitive issue that affects the quality of the educational process and if we decide on these changes, then this would certainly deserve a thorough debate. It would also be worth a thorough discussion of where we are forcing protection instead of educational work in educational institutions. These are the reasons why I expect you to support the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Does anyone want to explain their voice individually? Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will also support this initiative of my colleague Potrate. Not because I am a graduate teacher, but because I want to answer to the public whether the dilemma is in fact in the austerity measure of this government or in changing the education system itself and, of course, the structure of that. I have to say that, of course, the answer has not satisfied me, but, above all, when I read, I have the feeling that it is not about austerity measures, that it is on one side to deal with the intellectual core of this country, which the schoolchildren undoubtedly are. And this intellectual core of this country has been critical to all authorities and all governments, especially for a simple reason, because, of course, it sees that proposals go to the decommissioning of public education to give emphasis to private education. And here I agree with the predecessor when she spoke about the fact that, of course, the answers given, the OECD statistics and the emphasis are wrong. The talk was about private education being small in Slovenia, which I agree with, but no one said that in Slovenia we are one of the most privately financed people. That is why I would like this discussion to be done and to see and answer the schoolchildren in reality, why we take money from them and raise certain standards that do not go into individualisation of learning, but go to the destruction of public education, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support the proposal for a general debate, as well as the one I have given myself in the answers of Minister Turk when I have asked the question of a Member of Parliament, particularly because the answers both Minister Turk and Prime Minister of the Government have opened a new wave or a new set of questions to be answered here. These austerity measures proposed by the Government are not as much savings as reforms. In the course of the reform, you have also stated in the Coalition Treaty that you will take into account and encourage critical comments, as well as all the professional reasons, in order to encourage all good-natured people when you change the system of both education and the other system. However, public education is so important for Slovenia that we cannot go beyond really having an expert and thorough discussion. We've been building our school system for 20 years. We can't do it now with one such measure, I am saying that a austerity measure is needed, but not the kind of reform that you imagined. [[...]] We cannot allow this system, which we have been building for 20 years, to be broken down so quickly, without professional analysis, without justification, because there are many misleading and many non-professional reasons for the answers given by the Minister and the President of the Government. So I'm gonna back this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you. Roberto Battelli. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Dejan Jidan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. I support Mrs. Majde Potrat's proposal. We urgently need to answer another sharp question that no one simply notices. As we lower the standards, we will in some way prevent some demographically endangered areas of Slovenia, as well as the small border band, where these schools, which do not meet the standards by number of students, will be withdrawn. These schools also represent a source and an anchor that people still live in these parts. And on the fact that there is no more money in the budget's rebalancing for land operations at the border, which ensures settlement at the border, which was also the discussion of the current coalition in the previous term, I am actually wondering whether you have decided to sacrifice the small-border band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you. We can move to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Individually? Not at all. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Kavticnik, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turk, to the question of Mr Kavtičnik's question of saving measures in education. Here you are, Mr Kavtičnik, an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask you to support this proposal. And don't be afraid of hearing any false beliefs here. It's just that Minister Turk has enough time and space to explain to us why these austerity measures are taking place. I will be very happy, and probably all of you, when we get it from him or from our professional colleagues, to explain that it doesn't break the school system, that it doesn't change school into a different school, children's school and so on. I will be very happy, so I would like this debate to be held, that even teachers and all those who took action against these measures yesterday will realize that you think seriously that you mean well for the benefit of the school, the children and, of course, for the benefit of our country. So please support and don't be afraid to get some wrong information or some wrong information that someone might be able to silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Individually? Not at all. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[It's 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerk Čehovin, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Secretary-General of the Government, Dr Boža Predalič, to Mr Jerk Čehovin's question on the organisation of national celebrations. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Individually? Please, Mr. Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u200	It was found that five years ago the last celebration of the accession of Primorska to Kobarid was held. As you know, these celebrations take place every five years. It means if there's no state celebration this year, it won't be for another five years. This means that Primorska will be without State participation for 10 years without celebration. That is why I appeal to all Members, as well as to the Members of the sea, to correct this mistake of the Government. Because in my opinion, the government probably overlooked that this year is the five years when this holiday is celebrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will support the proposal of colleague Jerk Čehovin. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a decision to organise only two national celebrations, has once again shown misunderstanding about the importance of identity for the future of the country. Moreover, by bypassing the entire organization of the other holidays, she went unnecessarily into the field of ideological warfare, even contrary to the coalition agreement. While the discomfort of the right-centre coalition at the celebration of some holidays can be understood, there is still an expectation of proper respect for all the most brilliant events of national history that have finally established and formed us into a independent and independent country. Slovenia is a country of all citizens and citizens, not just an ideological apparatus of one of the political parties, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also important that, at the same time as the adoption of this Decision, there is also a proposal in the National Assembly to reduce the number of days available per year by amending the Holidays and Works Act. As it is said, I support the proposal of colleague Jerk Čehovin, and I would like the Government to reconsider its decision and, of course, in line with saving, also organise not only two celebrations, but also celebrations such as the day of rebellion against the invader, the day of reform and other holidays which are now overlooked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u203	Thank you. If there is no longer interest in explanations of vote, we shall proceed to the vote. 79 Members and Members were present, with 33 to 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. At the proposal of Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on the adoption of the State Spatial Plan and the priority within it. Shall we vote? I'm sorry, voice-explanatory, I'm putting an end to this vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want an individual? Mr. Muscle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question was raised to Minister Cernac in order to discuss infrastructure projects that have been waiting decades for accommodation in space. Since the infrastructure or placement of such important projects in the area is very important for the development of Slovenia, the economy and everything for the benefit of this society, my question has been well-meaning, because the Minister himself has opened a number of questions on this subject in his reply and has committed himself to preparing a short schedule and setting priorities for placing in the area of important projects for the development of our country, I believe that you will support a wider discussion in the National Assembly on this subject and that you will be each of your fellow Members and also tell each other what problems you have in those parts of Slovenia where you come from. After all, we are here to decide before we decide to discuss what needs to be done for the benefit of our country. Since hope is the last to die, I expect you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. On the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žig Turk, to the question of mags. Majde Potrat related to the consequences of the decision banning copyright and advisory agreements in the field of culture. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The surprise of the Minister for the Future, why I am interested in banning copyright and advisory contracts, but I am not interested in how parents are going to pay for kindergarten, shows that there is a need to discuss the Minister's response because he does not understand that there is a lot of room in the creative industry for new jobs with high added value. These are usually concluded through copyright contracts. This conclusion is essential for the normal functioning of public institutions. However, the additional question to be asked is whether it is not a decision of the Government, which generally prohibits the conclusion of author contracts, an overstatement of competences by the time the deadline is set, because the programming plans, work plans, financial plans of public institutions are within the competence of the management and the councils of these institutions. So they are responsible for the implementation of the programme and without the conclusion of contracts, author contracts with directors, screenwriters, playwrights, lecturers, stage workers and others in theatres, without the conclusion of author contracts in a variety of other activities, it is impossible to imagine that today a large number of public institutions can normally operate. Of course, if our perception is that there are too many of them and that this is just a ingestion of public funds, then we will cut through all these funding opportunities and let those who are actually the most pro-pulsive and creative part of this population choose a more favourable environment for their work area of creativity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you. If there is no longer interest in explanations of vote, we shall proceed to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It was 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's final proposal on the proposal for a decision will be as follows: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Agriculture and Environment, Mr Bokovic, and the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on the placement of the facility in the space. Does anyone want to explain their voice individually? Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u208	President-in-Office, it was primarily about putting facilities in a space at the level of local communities. Your coalition commitment was to transfer land to the local community. I believed you were aware that the local communities knew best what was necessary and what was important for the development of their place. And because the local communities cannot develop as they would like, because of the difficulties with space and because many lands are distributed in one way or another and because they cannot build the necessary infrastructure that will enable them to develop, I appeal to you to do so as soon as possible, to transfer to the local community the land – this is, after all, your coalition commitment – and I also call on you to support this debate, because this debate can only benefit you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u209	Thank you. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act, urgent procedure Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, i.e. to a decision on the proposal for a law. The legislative and legal service and the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the Group? No, no, no. Does anyone want to explain their voice? Not at all. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. All 79 voted in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, the reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies due to the amendments. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the Group? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. Then we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. All 80 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, in insolvency proceedings and forcible termination We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures are suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the Group? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want to explain their voice? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We have made conditional on insolvency, and we have said that this law can be supplemented by the fact that 30%, which was before 50%, must be complemented by the change in corporate ownership. This is said to translate those who submit their claims into an equity share of 30%, including the other 70% of the claims they have, into an equity share. 30% would be paid in four years, that was our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you, Mag. Stepan. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u212	I will vote in favour of the appropriateness of this law because I want us to take the opportunity to supplement this law accordingly. During this process, the Social Democrats also tried to present the idea of rapid bankruptcy within the framework of a public presentation of opinions to the National Assembly. The aim of the rapid bankruptcy is similar to that stated by Mr Stepišnik now, and this is that within 45 days the creditors of the insolvency debtor through this procedure become new owners. In this way, we relieve the company of debts, and creditors get liquid assets that can be repaid immediately in the next day. We note that the economic reality clearly shows that we do not have much time to think about the systemic changes in this type of legislation, because bankruptcy is happening now. Following the current procedure, a number of bankruptcy debtors are sentenced to very long procedures, within which healthy cores in companies will simply disappear. I politely ask the ruling coalition, give this marriage an opportunity, let us think together about smart solutions and accept them now, within this procedure. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u213	Thank you. If there is no longer interest in explanations of vote, we may proceed to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. All 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act is suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Richard Branisel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u214	I will vote in favour, and this law will, I hope, go into further procedure. In the next phase, I expect the APEC to establish competition as it needs to be established with a call for at least another multiplex, and that the Government will tell us clearly what these pressures from Brussels are and what these threats are with the complaints that we will be able to make a clear decision in the future. I will personally support this law only under these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you. We're voting on the proposal. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 Members and Members voted against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement establishing a functional airspace block of central Europe. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. It was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy is held at its 2nd session. 4. 2012 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement establishing a functional airspace block for Central Europe. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, had no comments; only the proposal to replace the words "Ministry of Infrastructure and Space" with the descriptive form "Ministry responsible for infrastructure and space" in the context of the drafting powers of Article 3 of the Law. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement establishing a functional airspace block of Central Europe be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u217	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We have only one application, on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u218	The conclusion of an agreement on the establishment of a functional airspace block in Central Europe constitutes the fulfilment of Slovenia's obligation to establish a functional airspace block in the Republic of Slovenia, as set out in the Regulation of the European Parliament on the organisation and use of airspace in the single European sky. The agreement is in line with the starting points endorsed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly, and we will therefore support the proposal of law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you. This was the only presentation of the Group's position. As no amendment has been adopted in the second reading of the home labour body, the amendments to the draft law cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 79 votes in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. POINT OF THE DAY’S REGULATION — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE TREATY ESTONIA, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, IRELAND, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF KINGDOM, THE REPUBLIC OF KINGDOM, THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC AND THE REPUBLIC OF FINCO. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 11 April 2012, at a joint meeting, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as an interested working body. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Dejan Krušec, who referred to the question raised by the chairman of the Committee by Jožef Horvat, or the Government considers that an international treaty subject to ratification would have any impact on the exercise of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of economic policy management, explained that such consequences would not be. The economic stability mechanism will be set up as an international financial organisation with the Governing Council, the Board of Directors and the Executive Director. The most important decisions will be taken by consensus. In order to decide on certain matters, the Treaty introduces an urgent procedure when a majority of 85% of the votes cast are required for the decision to be taken. The European Stability Mechanism will have €700 billion of capital to be divided into paid-up capital and call capital. At the meeting of the European Council on 1 and 2 March 2012, it was decided that Member States would accelerate capital injections into the European Stability Mechanism in order to strengthen financial stability in the euro area and in the first year 2012, with two instalments, each meal being the last meal in 2013, 2012 and 2014. The President of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs of the Council of State Vincenz Otoničar presented the opinion of the Commission, which supported the bill. In the debate, Members raised questions about the financial benefits and obligations the Treaty will bring to Slovenia and expressed concerns about the establishment of a new bureaucrat institution. After the discussion, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as an interested working body, adopted an opinion supporting the draft law. As no amendment was adopted to the draft law at the meeting of the home labour body, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u221	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us two laws on the ratification of the two treaties, which are related to each other, so I will define myself by both. These treaties at the level of the euro area or the European Union are extremely important, addressing the stability issue in the financial field, which are important for Slovenia for the euro area and for Europe as a whole. The treaties that are the subject of today's ratification are the result of Europe's worst crisis since World War II and are the result of the knowledge that if the euro falls, the European Union falls. Therefore, in our view, these treaties are in the utmost interest of Slovenia and will be supported by the SDS Group. The first is the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism, which contains important instruments for financial stability that require certain victims while ensuring solidarity in conditions of an extremely deep economic and financial crisis. The ESM is an addition to the existing insufficient financial instruments and relates to the provision of financial assistance to a Member State which is at risk of serious financial difficulties. The second law concerns the ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union and is decided by 25 Member States of the European Union. The commitments that form part of this Treaty are extremely important in the view of the SDS Group for Slovenia as they provide for the strengthening of the Economic and Monetary Union by adopting a set of rules designed to promote budgetary discipline through fiscal agreement. Under the Treaty, Slovenia undertakes to introduce a fiscal rule in national legislation to ensure that the revenue and expenditure of the State sector under the ESA 95 methodology is balanced or that revenues exceed expenditure. Your Honor! Despite the fact that the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic did not accede to this Treaty at that time, we are convinced in the SDS Group that the European Union is showing with it a high degree of consensus and awareness that uncontrolled development and deepening of the financial crisis in the euro area and the wider European Union could have disastrous consequences, so no country can be comforted to be immune to them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that the Slovenian public and political parties are also aware of the importance of these treaties and of the consistency arising from them, saying the appropriate incorporation of the golden fiscal rule into national law. However, it is not enough that only the party leaders are aware of this, but all the parties must be responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Maja Dimitrovski has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The European Council is 17. 12. 2010 concluded that the euro area Member States should establish a permanent stability mechanism. This will assume the tasks now assigned to the European Financial Stability Instrument and the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism. It is a matter of providing financial assistance to the euro area Member States where necessary. Due to strong interconnection in the euro area, serious risks to the financial stability of the euro area could threaten the financial stability of the entire euro area. The ESM may provide aid for stability under strict conditions corresponding to the selected financial assistance instrument, where this is necessary to protect the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and its Member States. The maximum initial volume of ESM loans is EUR 500 billion. Since this mechanism means a clear signal from the Euro Group that it intends to defend the euro as a currency, and because Slovenia is also a European member, we support the ratification of the Treaty in Positive Slovenia. In Positive Slovenia, while we believe that there is no danger that Slovenia should seek the assistance of the EMS, we are aware that, according to the government's projected economic, tax and public policy, Janez Janša, this moment can also begin. In any case, the fate of Slovenia is linked to the fate of the euro. The fact that we have a common currency has mitigated the effects of the crisis in Slovenia, and any measure that strengthens this currency is still welcome. We will therefore support ratification in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u225	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading, amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. It is also not possible to discuss MEPs and Members, so I cannot give the applicants a word. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 13. The Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Germany, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of France, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the rapporteur or to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u226	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its joint meeting on 11 April 2012, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as an interested working body. In view of the extremely important content of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union between the twenty-five, the Committee on Foreign Policy requested an opinion on the majority required for the adoption of the proposal for a law on ratification. In its written opinion, the Legislature states that, after examining the proposal for a law, it considers that an international treaty subject to ratification does not fall within the category of international treaties covered by Article 3a of the Constitution, since, in its view, it does not tolerate the exercise of new sovereign rights to an international organisation, and is therefore ratified in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that, in a particular case, the content of an international treaty is primarily of a public financial nature and that it is not sufficient to decide whether the transfer of sovereign rights is merely a matter of legal review, which is why it considers that the National Assembly would also need an assessment by the section in which the content of this international treaty falls. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Dejan Krušec, gave an additional explanation, saying that the Government agrees that the draft law is adopted by a majority of the 86th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose of the Treaty is to strengthen the economic and monetary union through greater public financial discipline, introducing a national requirement for the implementation of the Treaty, closer coordination of economic policies and an agreement on enhanced governance of the euro area. The Treaty was signed by the Heads of State or Government of the 25 Member States of the European Union at the end of the European Council meeting on 1 and 2 March this year. The contract was not signed by the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. Since its inception, Britain has had a negative position on the amended Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the remaining Member States have therefore supported the intention to conclude a new international treaty on enhanced economic cooperation, which would also become part of the primary legislation of the European Union as soon as possible. By contract, Slovenia undertakes to introduce binding and permanent fiscal rules into national law. The basic rule is that the public financial balance must be equalised or in surplus. Thus, the defined balance must not be lower than 0,5 % of GDP at market prices, except for countries with a debt level substantially below the limit of 60% of GDP and where the long-term sustainability of public finances is not jeopardised. The President of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs, Vincenc Otoničar, presented the opinion of the Commission, which unanimously supported the bill. After a constructive and fruitful discussion, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as an interested working body, adopted an opinion supporting the draft law. As no amendment was adopted to the draft law at the meeting of the home labour body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u227	Thank you. Only Positive Slovenia has been reported from the parliamentary groups. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u228	This Treaty was created as a result of a severe financial crisis, which also affected Member States and the euro area. Due to the excessive indebtedness of many of these countries, there was little room for manoeuvre in the fight against the crisis. The debt crisis facing European countries requires a new approach by countries regarding their fiscal policies. Under this Treaty, the Parties, including Slovenia, have agreed to strengthen the economic pillar of the Economic and Monetary Union by adopting a set of rules designed to promote fiscal discipline. In Positive Slovenia we support the ratification of this agreement, but at the same time we warn the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to rush into our legal order when introducing the provisions of this Treaty. The Treaty provides in the second paragraph of its Article 3 that the legal order of the States Parties must be duly modified one year after the entry into force of this Treaty, which means that the first possible date of validity of the Treaties is 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Given the problems with the ratification of this Treaty in the Czech Republic and Ireland, this date is becoming increasingly questionable. We certainly agree that Slovenia needs more discipline in the public financial field, but the solutions proposed must be thoughtful and not just a means to prevent referendums, which is clearly the first priority of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. There is also no possibility of a debate between Members and Members, so we will move on to a decision. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u230	Thank you. I will vote in favour, but I must say that the State Secretary's conclusion is not correct at this joint committee meeting when he stated that this treaty has no legal implications for the country. Of course he does. If not otherwise, we are already transferring a part of our sovereignty because the automatic European Court is dealing with the offender. This means that we are also losing some of our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-19-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u231	Thank you very much. This issue of procedure, or the majority required to vote, will also be addressed by the Legislative and Legal Service and will confirm the position that we are voting on the bill by a simple majority. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, I am putting the bill to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. It's 74 votes against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, it is on the confirmation of official refined texts. Officially purified texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Higher Education Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. All 80 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the National Assembly has confirmed the officially consolidated text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Criminal Procedure Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. All 80 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the National Assembly has officially cleared the text. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and also conclude the second meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
