ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u1	I'm informing you that we're going to start the meeting at 9am and 10 minutes due to a slight change in the announcement of time, the redeployment. At 9:10 sharp, we'll start.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! As announced, it is precisely at 9:10 that we begin the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which I convened on the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today's session cannot be attended by Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Samo Bevk from 3 p.m. on. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. Nicely greeted! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference on Monday, 11 June. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda, nor have I received proposals to extend the agenda. In this way, I propose to the National Assembly that today's extraordinary meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We will vote on the agenda, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 14. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the agenda of the 14th extraordinary session has been set. We're moving on to agenda one. Procedurally, Mr Weber and Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In view of the fact that we have two very important items on the agenda today, namely the 5th item on the decision on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank, and the 6th point on the decision on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Credit Bank of Maribor, the President would make a procedural suggestion that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is present at these two points today in the National Assembly. With all due respect to the Minister of Finance, who will obviously also be monitoring today's work of the National Assembly and trying to give us all the information. Unfortunately, however, we note that a lot of information on the Finance Committee has not been provided by the Government on this subject, and therefore we rightly expect the President of the Government to provide further information that the Ministry of Finance representatives on the Finance Committee did not know whether they should have, or did not know why and what information should be provided. I am making this procedural proposal at the outset precisely for the reason that the President can also organise his work and that he can then really attend the meeting of the National Assembly. Because the decision on which the Government will then be free to decide on who and how it will sell the System Bank of Novo Ljubljanska Banka and the New Credit Bank of Maribor is, of course, one of the most important decisions, I hope to say, in this reference to the National Assembly. President, I hope that you will take this procedural proposal into account and ensure the presence of the President of the Government at these two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u4	Thank you. I don't even understand this as much as a procedural proposal, but as an invitation to the Prime Minister to come to this item on the agenda. This call will, of course, be forwarded to the President of the Government, and the Government will decide who represents it, who represents it at individual agenda items. Even Mr Möderndorfer wanted procedural. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. That's what I'm calling you on purpose, because I think you're forgetting more and more that you're who you are. I must say that I am appalled at your manner of leading the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, so it is procedural that we will also understand why I am speaking procedurally. In fact, not only did it seem at the beginning, as a joke and as a joke, that I mentioned that no one adhered to parliamentary practice. You have begun to introduce a new parliamentary practice. In fact, two minutes before the meeting of the National Assembly, you changed time on the proposal of Mr Tanka, the leader of the parliamentary group, and you moved from the second point to point 5 for 50 minutes for one simple reason, because the SDS Group simply made a mistake and did not see this coming. When we had a meeting of the National Assembly two days ago, we could not even replace the debater, let alone time! This is simply the most recent thing you are introducing, and I am just warning you, President of the National Assembly, from now on we will always repeat and correct mistakes two minutes before the meeting, because you will also convene a college of the National Assembly, where this now seems to be acceptable. Actually, it's not done, it's unworthy. Never and never has the time changed two minutes before, and it is simply slightly distributed from point to point. The President of the National Assembly, please, if you are serving as President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. Nor was this a procedural proposal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, colleges shall determine the duration of each item of the agenda, the time of discussions by Members, sent groups and other participants, etc. This happened at today's college, not for the first time and not for the last time. Commence treatment 1. Agenda item – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the public procurement agency, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to further explain the proposal to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u7	Welcome, honourable Members and Members, President of the National Assembly! The law we are proposing is part of the rationalisation and reorganisation of the public administration or the wider public sector, creating a complex of tasks that the Government has set itself with the aim of making public funds more rational and achieving better objectives. The Public Procurement Agency was established in 2010 and started operating in 2011. It replaced the completion of the Ministry of Public Administration's task in this area. In 2011, the Agency awarded almost one hundred large public contracts, of which 14 were contracts for the whole or for a large part of the public administration or public sector. We note that such a scratch is also good to save between €7 million and €9 million annually by common public procurement. We have decided to transfer the tasks of this agency to the Directorate or Directorate within the Ministry of Finance. The reason for such a decision is that, together with the Agency, employees also come to this Directorate, its tasks, including its legal relations. The work will continue there as it has been so far, but at the same time it can be linked to the systematic regulation of the field of public procurement, for which the Ministry of Finance is already in charge today. This is said to be possible at the same time to carry out public procurement and to regulate the system in the same place, but also to offer, which is very important, training and education, as well as simple assistance, ongoing advice to budgetary users when they carry out public procurement themselves. With this, the Agency will also have more opportunities than it has had so far when it was a more executive body and had to follow in the design of public procurement to the requirements and expectations of budgetary users, so that through the Ministry of Finance and through the Government it will also achieve greater rationality in its decisions on what to order, to what extent to order, and also to propose any changes in these procurements in order to make the use of public funds more rational. For these reasons, of course, we propose to the National Assembly that such a law be adopted and made possible by 30 years. 6. completion of part of the Agency and its transfer to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At its 22nd urgent meeting on 12 June, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the termination of the Public Procurement Agency as a mother's work. This law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments to individual articles of the draft law, namely Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the draft law. The comments of the service are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted by the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance explained that the bill provides for the termination of the Public Procurement Agency, as of 30 June 2012, to be delegated to the Ministry of Finance. Thus, the Ministry of Finance, in addition to the systemic procurement tasks, will also carry out the tasks of carrying out joint procurement procedures and procurement procedures under the authority of other authorities. This improves the public procurement system by combining practices from some major contracts and by providing education, advice and system-wide solutions in one place. The discussion on the individual articles of the Act submitted focused on Article 1 where a question was raised regarding the estimated level of savings and the verification of performance in achieving the objectives set out in the proposed reorganisation. Individual members of the Committee expressed the view in the debate that the establishment of the Agency had already been unnecessary and that if the Agency had not met the objectives for which it had been established, there was a reason for its termination, while other members of the Committee had doubted that this was the right step. In response to the questions raised, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance explained with regard to the anticipated reduction of employees that, upon the termination of the Agency, all its employees would be taken over by the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the achievement of the objectives, he stressed that the envisaged transfer of staff from the authorities of the State administration to the Agency had not been achieved and therefore the Agency could not carry out large orders for other authorities. In the debate on Article 2, individual members of the Committee felt that the establishment of the Agency was a reasonable step, since it was a matter of managing resources which amount to almost half of the value of the State budget and which have an important impact on promoting economic growth. The debate also drew attention to the issue of the dispersion of the public procurement system and the issue of the transfer of public funds into private hands on the basis of calls for proposals. In the light of the fact that the Agency was set up as an independent body to award public procurement under clear and specific procedures, the discussion highlighted the possible negative consequences of the proposed termination of the Agency. The discussion on Article 3 raised a question regarding the level of rights and obligations and the Agency's financial assets and movable assets, which would move to the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the proposed solutions. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalitions by Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Thanks, mag. Spread out. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia mag. Stanko Stepichnik. Don't you? Mr. Jerkov Chehovin? Although the change has not been announced, it is up to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Good-bye! Following a proposal for a law, the Public Procurement Agency is hereby terminated on 1 July and its tasks are delegated to the Public Procurement Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. From the date of termination of the Public Procurement Agency, the Ministry of Finance shall take over the tasks carried out by the Public Procurement Agency in accordance with the Public Procurement Agency Act and the Decision establishing the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Finance shall assume the executive and systemic tasks. Some of the public procurement system tasks already carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the Public Procurement Agency will thus be carried out in one place, in a uniform manner, and will be strengthened in some areas. In Positive Slovenia we note that it is only a matter of changing the organisational structure within the authorities of the state administration, since almost all tasks, except for some exceptions, all the rights and obligations of the agency go to the Republic of Slovenia and are carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance shall not be transferred to the Ministry of Finance to the execution of public contracts which exceed the publication limit values in the Official Journal of the European Union for public administrations. This task shall be delegated to the authorities of the State Administration as set out before the establishment of the Agency. It is worth noting that these are more important tasks to be carried out by the Public Procurement Agency, which it is expected to carry out in early 2012, but are not, since there has been no transfer of tasks or transfer of staff to carry out these tasks. Since the adoption of the Agency Act, there has been a concern that the latter is not relevant, since the authorities of the State Administration had a very well-organized public procurement service, where the substantive and procedural preparation of the tender documents has been linked in one place. The transfer to the agency would break the link between the content and the procedure. In view of the above, Positive Slovenia will not oppose the proposal for a solution. The positive Slovenia will not oppose the proposal of the law, as the performance of those tasks will only be assumed by a different organisational form of the authorities of the state administration and will not be supported by it. We have been doing everything with the reorganisation of the state administration since the ruling coalition took over the government, but to this day we have not been aware of the financial and personnel effects of this reorganisation. We were not even given one when this law was being examined. In general, this practice is becoming a trademark of this government. We can note, however, that this law will not save any savings for the time being, as both financial and material resources and employees are transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The effect will be more demonstration and will be used by the ruling coalition as a compliment in style: we have abolished so many and so many agencies, including the Public Procurement Agency. We will therefore abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u12	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Public Procurement Agency for the following reasons. For the first time, because this agency, which was established in 2010, has failed and has not performed those tasks that it should actually carry out after the establishment act. Secondly, because the termination of this agency reduces bureaucratic work when, in fact, certain information is transferred from one legal entity to other legal entities. Once these tasks have been undertaken by the Ministry of Finance, public procurement will be centralised, system-based work will also be enabled, education will be provided, and assistance will be provided to those national authorities that do not have the knowledge and experience of public procurement. This will make public procurement more transparent, efficient and less bureaucratic. Given that the transfer of rights and obligations under this law will be carried out correctly, we do not see any reason for any problems in the implementation of the law itself. These are the reasons why we will support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u14	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Dear President, dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to abolish the Public Procurement Agency following an urgent procedure in order to prevent, in the opinion of the Government, severe remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The integration of regulation preparation and, in part, its implementation and advice, opinions and education will improve the public procurement system, which is one of the most important subsystems of public administration and a very important part of public finances. However, improving the public procurement system is essential to reduce the expenditure of the budget and other public funding funds. In the SD, we agree that the public procurement system needs to be improved. Of course, we cannot avoid the obvious that the government is suspending agencies under the cover of savings, which are an important factor in managing tax money. Public procurement remains an important driver of economic growth as it accounts for 12.98% of GDP in 2007 and is comparable to the share of the European public procurement market in the European Union, which is around 16%. As a result of this, the public procurement area is subject to the suspicion of corruption. The SD doubts that they will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance directly under the decision of the Minister of Finance in view of the fact that there is a conflict of interest between the policy and the economy to a greater extent when the Minister can directly decide or draw up a public contract directly for the pre-known contracting entity. Therefore, in the SD, we also wonder whether the Government has put the proposed law into coordination with the anti-corruption Commission, given that the implementation of public procurement will be less transparent because it will be under the direct decision of the Minister. In view of the fact that the Government carried out 100 staff exchanges within 100 days, there would be no difficulty in transferring the capable personnel to the Public Procurement Agency, rather than being removed by the Government and placed under the supervision of the Minister. For this reason, we will vote against the law, which allows for more corruption and clienteleism with public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Thank you. A notice to Mr Webra, the cabinet of the Prime Minister, has been notified of your wish or of your proposal. The following is on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! The aim of the law on the termination of the Public Procurement Agency is to create conditions for improving the public procurement system and at the same time to establish a system where such education, advice and solutions will be provided in one place. Therefore, in the Civil Gazette, we believe that the law is good and we are confident that it will help improve the public procurement system. In the Republic of Slovenia, about four billion public contracts are awarded annually and the system, despite the attention of the media and the professional public, is not in the best condition, procedures are too complicated, and the thresholds for publishing contracts are low, thus increasing their complexity in the lowest contracts. However, the system is over-adopted in places, and it seems to be its own purpose. The external observer can thus quickly get the feeling that it is more than to obtain suitable goods, services or construction in an economically more important way, a more important process itself, its technical implementation, addressing irrelevant procedural issues rather than focusing on the objectives of the procurement. Thus, contracting authorities and tenderers are involved in pointless disputes in the proceedings, and the economy and the economy of public procurement are being cornered. The transmission of the Public Procurement Agency and its tasks under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance means a mere improvement of the system, since in one place both the award of large public contracts for a larger number of bodies and the so-called common public procurement of the Government as well as the public procurement system will be combined. The tasks carried out by the Public Procurement Agency have been carried out on a one-way basis most of the time, such as the award of common public contracts to the Agency by a decision of the Government, the Agency carried out, on the basis of the stated needs of the authorities, but could not, on its own, interfere with specific contracts or these needs. It was a good service, most of which was a technical operator, but it could not respond to the needs or demand their rationalisation. This will be possible by carrying out these tasks at the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance will thus have additional leverage in the planning of funds and the state treasury will be able to rationalise spending already in concrete procurement procedures for joint and major public procurement. The tasks performed at the Public Procurement Agency today are necessary, are rationalisation and savings, but these tasks will only be able to experience their true potential through the transfer of operations at the Ministry of Finance and thus their better placement. As a public agency, this institution had limited powers and responsibilities. Hand to heart, this was a rather unfortunate project by the former government, which had not been implemented to the end. Nor should we forget that this new institutional framework will allow for a better advisory role in the award of public procurement, a better education system and, finally, a better and more effective design of systemic solutions. For all these reasons, the Members of the Civil Code will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u18	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Dear President, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, good day! Again, we are talking about a bill that shows that some of the solutions from the previous mandate have been adopted without any assessment of the impact on the improvement of the actual situation. This has been the most demonstrated in the establishment of new offices and agencies, which have largely been dedicated to themselves. Among them was the Public Procurement Agency, which began operating at the beginning of last year and its main purpose was to establish an effective, cost-effective and transparent public procurement with the aim of centralising it. In order not to be mistaken, we supported the Law on the Public Procurement Agency at the time in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but we have already warned that measures will have to be taken in the course of its implementation to enable it to be fully operational. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. It soon became apparent that the agency was only a phantom state authority that did not perform all the tasks for which it was set up, as there were only nine public servants employed there last year from the envisaged 32 and 62 public servants should be transferred to the Agency this year, which of course did not happen. Thus, the Agency was unable to launch large public contracts, which would be its priority direction and one of the key reasons for its establishment. The large procurement procedures are thus still largely managed by competent ministries with well-organised public procurement services, where both the substantive and procedural aspects of the preparation of public procurement are combined. The potential separation of these two aspects should be a fundamental reason for the failure to transfer staff from ministries and other state authorities to the Agency, as the separation of well-run procedures would be poor. It is a pity that such a finding takes two years and the establishment of an inoperable state authority, which also took part in public funds. The proposed law therefore creates a situation where the procurement, pooling of practice and consulting tasks are transferred to the Ministry of Finance, which is already developing systemic solutions in this area. In addition, the Ministry of Finance will also provide support to smaller public, state contracting authorities in the award of contracts following the proposed regulation, as they themselves do not have sufficient practice and are also not qualified to carry out the procedures of more demanding public procurement. Before I conclude, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we share the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, which we were visited yesterday, which speaks of the area of public procurement as a platform for systemic corruption, as the the thesis is confirmed that there has been a division of the public financial market among a particular group of private entities that want to preserve this situation regardless of all. Therefore, the public funding system needs to become even more transparent and efficient, which will not only be sufficient for the proposed law on the termination of the Public Procurement Agency, and this will require the most movement in our heads, in particular in the sense that public money starts to work as well as with private: rational and economic. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law on the termination of the Public Procurement Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u20	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u21	That's a good-bye! Thank you for your word. The Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Slovenia performs several different tasks following the current arrangements, from implementing, systemistic and others. While the applicant submits an analysis of the functioning of the public agency, stressing that certain public procurements are public procurements published in the Official Journal of the EU, the latter cannot be carried out due to lack of human resources and it is therefore proposed that it be terminated and transferred to the Ministry of Finance. In the DeSUS Group, we assess that the law is appropriate and we agree with the abolition of this agency. The applicant made a comprehensive assessment from a financial point of view and provided for in detail the consequences of the termination, from the transfer of tasks to the transfer of public servants. We agree with the assessment that such integration, regulation preparation and, in part, their implementation and advice, opinions and education will improve the public procurement system, which is one of the more important subsystems of public administration and a very important part of public finances. On this point, let me just point out that we must not go beyond the fact that the lack of transparency of the public procurement system opens the door to systemic corruption. Therefore, in DeSUS, we hope and expect that transparency, efficiency, efficiency and rationality of procurement procedures will be the basic guiding principle of procedures and practices within the Ministry of Finance as well as that they will not remain only letters on the paper. We will monitor the procedures consistently and take action in the event of irregularities. As stated above, the DeSUS Group supports the proposed abolition and we will therefore vote in favour of the passing of the law on the termination of the Public Procurement Agency, of course with the reasons I have just given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you. Apologize first. From the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, they announced the official replacement of the representative who presented the position of the Group. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, Minister Dr. Šuštersič! With the proposed law, the Government aims to improve the public procurement system by combining practices from some major contracts and providing education, advice and system-based solutions in one place. At the same time, the Government wishes to establish support for those, particularly public and public, contracting entities in which contracting authorities themselves do not have sufficient practice and are not qualified for procurement procedures. The Republic of Slovenia is a member of the European Union, and I would therefore like to point out that procurement is based on the principles arising from the Treaty establishing the European Community, in particular the principle of free movement of goods and services and freedom of establishment. In addition to these principles, the public procurement and delegation of the tasks of the Agency at the Ministry of Finance shall also be based on the principle of economy, the principle of efficiency and performance, the principle of proportionality and the principle of transparency. After the termination of the Agency, which has been inconvenient and has not produced the right effects, its tasks will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, which, while already in accordance with the Law on State Administration, is responsible for public procurement, except for the execution of public contracts for public authorities exceeding the publication thresholds in the Official Journal of the European Union, which have in fact remained with the authorities of the State Administration and are currently performing them independently. The Agency will cease to operate on 30 June 2012, i.e. in a few days. The law governs the transfer and transfer of tasks of the Agency, its termination, the transfer of rights and obligations of the Agency, the transfer of staff and other obligations and rights related to the termination of the Agency. It is worth mentioning that in the Republic of Slovenia we place over 200,000 public contracts annually in the total value of about one half of the expenditure of the current budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. So about €4 and a half billion, which is about 13% of GDP. The Ambassador and Members of New Slovenia will support the bill. The Minister responsible for procurement will thus have easier control over public procurement. The law also follows the New Slovenia programme, in which we wrote: "The type of agencies and institutions where organisational autonomy is not necessarily necessary for the conduct of public activities must be discontinued and those activities which are publicly useful and cannot be provided by the private sector must be transferred to the ministries." End of quote. However, the law also follows a coalition agreement, which committed us to firmly and uncompromisingly debirocratising Slovenia and further stated that we will review all institutions of public administration, such as bodies in the composition, government services, public agencies, public funds and substantially reduce their number. Quite specifically, from a coalition contract, "... The Ministry of Finance will carry out tasks, including in the field of public procurement..." So there are enough reasons to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you. We have completed the relocation of the positions of the members of the groups. We have one amendment tabled and we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? No one wants to discuss it. Is there anything the Minister might want to add on behalf of the motioner? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. So it's 0.55 at the latest, and we're all kind of counting on it to be a little bit sooner. So tomorrow, not today. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Banking Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. First of all, I give the floor to Minister Šuštersič to further explain the proposal on behalf of the Government's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Dear Members, Members! These are changes to the law that we want to create a legal possibility for ways to recapitalise banks that are eligible for regulation in this area and also in accordance with regulatory requirements, as well as in other countries. It's two key changes. The first option is to increase the bank's core capital through a real deposit in the form of creditors' claims or in the form of other assets when it comes to the financial restructuring of banks or their recovery. However, the second option or other solution introduced by this law is the removal of restrictions on the issue of so-called conditional capital or the increase of capital in the manner of authorised capital. This is a solution that, in practice, countries around the world use in recapitalising banks, which regulators consider to be a legitimate way of increasing the core capital of banks. This option was also introduced because, on the one hand, capital requirements for banks are increasing and, on the other hand, the financial power of owners that are obliged to recapitalise banks is reduced when required by regulators during the financial crisis and this instrument of conditional authorised capital has been introduced as one of the options. This instrument is not a novelty in the Slovenian legal order, it is already known by the Company Act, but it limits it to 50 % of the basic capital, which in some recapitalisations of banks could be limited, I do not argue that it will be necessary or necessary, but it could be, in particular if this additional contingent capital were issued at low conversion prices, which is also possible at a time when financial institutions as such do not have particularly high value. In view of the debates that have been, I think it is necessary to explain in a little more detail what this instrument is all about. These are so-called contingent convertible bonds, or in English these are contingent convertible bonds, from here comes this term Coco, which is the shortcut to conditionally replaceable or contingent convertible and does not come from the field of agronomy or anything like that. It's a technical shortcut. What's this all about? A bank that needs additional capital and has at least 7% of its quality share capital may issue this contingent-exchange bond in contrast to the regulatory requirement of 9%. Those who enter these bonds thus provide funds to the bank which are temporary, of course, for the duration of the bond, but those bonds must have one trigger condition; this is said if the bank’s capital still falls below 7 %, the deposit of those who bought the bonds will be automatically converted into the bank’s capital at the time the bonds were issued. As a result of this automation, the automatic triggering mechanism may also be bonds recognised or treated by the regulator in the same way as the bank would have provided direct first-class capital. In the specific case of Slovenia, where we are looking for solutions for recapitalisation of banks within the deadlines laid down, this is one of the possible mechanisms that we can use. Of course, we need a legal basis for this, so we have also proposed amendments to this law. It means that if, for example, the State paid such bonds and paid them back, for example, only for six months, this would not mean an increase in the deficit or an increase in the public debt, because these bonds would be only a temporary, transitional solution for the period until the end of the year to which, in our view, it would be possible to provide sufficient additional capital by private investors so that those bonds could then be extinguished and there would not be an increase in the deficit or public debt to recapitalise the bank in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Thank you. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The report will be presented by the chairman of the committee of mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 22nd urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered this law as a parent labour force. The proponent is the government. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act was considered by emergency procedure. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the law was transmitted. Comments were made on Articles 1 and 2. The coalition groups have also tabled amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Bank of Slovenia and representatives of the Capital Investment Management Agency attended the meetings of the Committee. The Secretary of State presented the law, the proposed solutions and the purpose, saying that the tight economic and financial conditions revealed the insufficient capital adequacy of banks on a European and global scale and, of course, of us. Thus, the European Banking Supervisory Authority recommended that systemically important banks should achieve at least 9 % capital adequacy, measured by the highest quality core capital. As a rule, it's equity. However, as an alternative to increasing capital, it is also used in Europe, or it recommends issuing special bonds that have already been presented today, contingent convertible bonds. The characteristics of this debt instrument shall be its volatility in capital when the trigger is triggered which is linked to the reduction of the capital adequacy below the prescribed level. Such financial instruments shall be regarded by regulators as the most qualitative form of core capital. In the debate, members of the opposition committee felt that the explanation of the material was modest and that they needed more information to decide. They were interested in the impact on the deficit in the budget due to the issue of bonds, they were also interested in the Bank of Slovenia's opinion on the issue of bonds and how long this temporary bond issue solution will last, following short-term objectives, which is within 30 years. 6. 2012 in which the capital adequacy of banks has to be demonstrated. In the debate, members of the coalition committee asked what the implications of issuing the budget bonds would be. In response, the Secretary of State said that this was a temporary solution, as requested by the European Banking Agency. This solution allows time to be found by private investors. The matter is not yet complete, and discussions with different partners are under way, and such bonds are also used in Switzerland, Great Britain, Ireland and elsewhere. The representative of Banka Slovenije said, inter alia, that it is a matter of solutions in law that enable the recapitalisation of banks to be carried out at the request of the European Banking Agency. This is not a complete resolution of the bank, but rather the achievement of the CoreTier 1 capital adequacy threshold, which must be 9%. He also pointed out that rating agencies are also waiting for the outcome of the achievement of capital adequacy, and Banka Slovenije will report this as a regulator. The representative of the Capital Investment Management Agency said, inter alia, that the condition for the use of such financial instruments is to reach a threshold of 7 % of the relevant capital. The NLB has not yet reached this condition, he stressed, and a two-phase recapitalisation will therefore be required. The question raised is also what will be the assessment of these bonds. However, regarding the temporaryity of the solution, he said that it could also have lasting consequences. It has committed itself to regular recapitalisation to a greater extent. Members of the committee from the opposition parties of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia have obstructed the vote on the articles and amendments of the bill. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition to Articles 1 and 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Now, Comrade Šircelj, stay behind the speaker's panel and continue as representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have examined these legislative changes in depth and have found that these legislative changes allow banks to recapitalise themselves and thus achieve the capital adequacy required by the European Supervisory Authority, thereby ensuring safer and more efficient operations. Given that there is a so-called financial banking crisis in the world today, in Europe and also in Europe, when banks are looking for different ways to recapitalise, when they are clearing their balance sheets mainly with poor loans, in particular with poor investments, and thus with reduced capital adequacy, this is certainly one of the mechanisms that allows banks to systematically regulate their capital adequacy, measured by the most high-quality share capital, this is usually the case with equity. The capital adequacy of the banking system is also crucial for maintaining the country's credit rating, banks and also for banks to be able to operate more efficiently and to give more favourable credit to the economy and thus avoid further credit crunches. This, of course, applies mainly to Slovenia as well. In addition, it should be stressed that the issue of so-called Coco bonds does not in itself mean that any sale, any sale of banks, state banks, to anyone, and in particular to anyone for whom it would not be necessary. The law itself, as I have already said, provides for the possibility of recapitalisation and from this point of view in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe it is appropriate that it constitutes a mechanism to encourage a banking system for greater lending and for a more successful business. That is why we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u30	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u31	With the amendment of the Banking Act, the Government proposes the possibility of using two mechanisms: recapitalisation of banks with real deposits on the one hand and, on the other hand, issuing bank contingent convertible bonds, CoCo bonds, as they are popularly called. Social Democrats are not opposed to the possibility of Slovenian banks using these mechanisms in their measures to improve capital adequacy. However, we strongly oppose them in the scenario ahead of us to have a capital share in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor. Why? This is because we see a very clear scenario in which, in the absence of clarity, intransparency and inoperability, the Government presents to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as the authority in the country that decides on the availability of capital investments, all relevant and relevant data for the implementation of the necessary recapitalisation of state banks. For a long time, social democrats have been warning that overindebted economy and capital inadequacy of the largest state banks is our key problem, and we expect the Government to begin to solve it, but not in a vague, non-transparent way, which will certainly damage state property and public interest. National interest – some forget about it and say it is not important. Why do we have a nation? Why do we have a country? There is no nation or country without national interest! And this is the first question of first-class national interest. Especially in a situation where we can see very clearly where the government wants to bring the boat, where both the biggest state banks are. By using the first mechanism, i.e. recapitalisation with real deposits or recapitalisation with cash, it is obviously intended to cash in on the market of very poorly sold bonds, older hybrid bonds issued by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which are owned by the Belgian NCBs of EUR 130 million sold on the market with at least 50% of the discount. We will obviously cash them in 100% in this scenario, thereby already damaging state property and public interest. In the second step, we will obviously allow the Belgians to purchase a bond issue by issuing conditionally-replaceable bonds, and with the expected decline in capital adequacy due to the estimated losses of the New Ljubljana Bank this year, the conditions under which these bonds will turn into the capital of the bank will already arise. At that point, we will find that it is past the knowledge of this Parliament as the one who has decided on these issues, the New Ljubljana Bank already owns 55% of the Belgian NCBs. Make no mistake, the Social Democrats are not against the entry of foreign capital into Slovenia, but we must also be careful. As one of the major European insurance and banking groups, the NCBs are not a healthy bank; only in 2013 will commitments fall to the Belgian state and the Flemish community of EUR 7 billion. Do you think these measures will really solve the issue of credit crunch and non-crediting the economy? You're not gonna save him! Also because the accumulation, our deposits, our wages, our savings and our people's pensions will travel so that other, new owners of these banks will solve their problems at home. Social Democrats will not oppose the amendments to the Banking Act and we will demonstrate our disagreement with such non-transparent sales and privatisation of state banks by our conduct in deciding on the decisions on the availability of those capital investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Mr Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! Members of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the Banking Act as this amendment allows or provides additional opportunities for recapitalisation or conditional recapitalisation of banks. Of course the issue of so-called Coco bonds, here I would shorten the explanation and not repeat contingent convertible bonds, but I would say Coco will, because the essential word is "bo," and then I would simply say for the explanation, "What's going to be – if it does." This is now one of the chances that this will work. Otherwise, it freezes me when we discuss this banking system, we save it in all ways, and we have not been successful in doing so. I hope we'll be more successful in the future. So I'm not worried if the government is actually going to take over, because no one has ever successfully intervened in this banking system and taken over certain controls. It's terrible what we've allowed ourselves, especially in these state banks, how these banks went for cheap money to Europe and then scattered it into our love of Slovenia for purchases, for tycoon purchases, for businesses, for I don't know what things. We are now witnessing new and new findings as to how many write-offs will be needed in these banks. I must say that foreign banks and banks that were not owned by the state did not start such nonsense. He canceled the surveillance system. I've been monitoring, and I know how strong it is, how banks are being monitored, how precise, wide-ranging analysis is being done, and the essence is no one or too late to find out. I can't imagine that somehow the bank can lend loans to places where it knows it won't get them back. It cannot give these investment speculative financial holding companies, it cannot give to companies that are practically already written off with too much credit and have no possibility of repaying. And who controls this system? The government and those who are here probably have no idea what's going on in this system. This cover, bank secrets, is just high enough that no one gets close to this system. In fact, many things should have happened here by now. Some people should be behind bars, and I don't know what else. During this period, there have been such nonsense, such nonsense that the state should never have allowed, no control over any matter. The work of the bank is practically very simple. And all these big directors with huge awards with all the things and it's so easy! [[...]] It's easier to run both the bank and the company with two employees. What's his problem? The problem is that this money he's got, which he's collecting, he's charging him safely and he's bringing him a return and he's taking care of his expenses. And that's all he has to do! Who in this bank has been in the last 15 years It seems to me that the Ljubljana Bank has 263 million euros in costs. [[...]] So who did some kind of remedial program, what rationalization, what reduction in wages in the banking system?Oh, my God! We should all be on minimum wage in terms of losses and everything! There's nothing to do! It's a world that's untouchable and everything is allowed here. Neither the Anti-Corruption Commission nor our State Public Finance Supervisory Commission – not the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, but this Commission, or those who exercise supervision in public companies and audits. No one's coming, no one's being treated. But if they are dealing with some things, they will never find out the essential problems. Regrettably, the essential problems are always sufficiently hidden and so designed that no one will discover these frauds and these stupidities. Like I said, it's freezing when I hear about banks and their rescue. I tell you, from my practice, I know that if these banks were gone ten years ago, surely the Slovenians would have much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u34	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! While some in this country are still blind, some simply do not admit it, but the biggest Slovenian bank is in serious trouble. Perhaps we are not in a position to discuss how this has happened, but it would be good to mention some of the facts in history that leave us only a little bit more room for manoeuvre today. Most are known that Nova Ljubljanska Banka was created by the state-run rehabilitation of the former Ljubljana Bank, requiring significant tax assets. Then came a number of state recapitalisations. Thus, on the round, the net contribution of Slovenian taxpayers, taking into account the last recapitalisation in last year, amounted to about EUR 1.6 billion. Today, the state share of this bank in the market is worth less than half a billion euros. How many bad loans are currently in this bank's balance sheet, they probably only know the most informed. However, I believe that the competent minister is also aware of this. The new Ljubljana Bank has been involved in many missed projects in the past; in the ownership of Mercury, Mercator, Dela, brewery, Pivovarne Laško, Istabenza, some construction companies and could also be listed. In short, where the appetites of companies or their managers were more than likely to be too large, there is also the largest Slovenian bank, which has scattered expensive money. The consequences are already visible, the volume of business is declining in both the economy and the population, the bank is disinvested, withdrawing from some markets, squandering its network and creating more than 200 million euros of losses per year in the last year. In particular, due to the gradual write-offs of bad credits from its balance sheets, it is well on the way from the formerly most important bank player to a little more than a local savings centre. Some expert estimates are that the bank, which undoubtedly needs a thorough rehabilitation to normalise its business and carry out its most important task, in particular crediting the Slovenian economy, would need at least 700 million, if not a billion euros. And now to the essence of the new legislation. By the end of the month, the country must ensure the capital adequacy of the largest state-owned bank, or we are at risk of serious warning by the European institutions, with at least a re-evaluation of Slovenia's credit rating, more expensive interest and a much more difficult access to fresh funds for the country. So we need to act now. However, it is not possible to find a quality solution within a few months, especially given that there is not enough funds for a re-investment in the bank in the budget. The government's decision to temporarily resolve the situation with the so-called Coco – a colleague said "bo" – bonds is currently a suitable measure to buy more than the time needed and that the state will complete the most optimal rehabilitation of this banking group. This type of obligation is an internationally recognised instrument, which is also allowed by European regulators as an alternative to financial recapitalisation. This does not mean that it is already decided that there will actually be conversion or conversion into equity, nor will there be any ownership relationship. Nor has it been definitively agreed what will be the role of the second largest owner of the NCBs. Today, this legislation merely provides the Government with a legislative basis for issuing these bonds and thus the possibility of seeking a solution to the unappreciative situation. In doing so, it is likely that the coalition contract, which obliges the coalition to maintain a 25% share plus one share in banking companies, is clear. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it seems to us that the temporary solution proposed by the Ministry, taking into account all the known facts, is the most optimal and that is why we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Our position is as follows on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Due to the still tight economic and financial situation, the European Banking Agency has recommended to ensure that banks have sufficient capital adequacy to reach at least 9% capital adequacy, measured by the highest quality share capital, as a rule. Since the financial power of the owners of banks has decreased significantly and, as a result, the recapitalisation by owners is significantly hampered, regulators around the world recommend the issue of CoCo bonds as an alternative option to increase capital. The issuance of the latter is linked to an instrument of approved or conditionally increased capital which is intended to enable bank management to react rapidly to the impaired capital position of banks. In this context, it is necessary to amend the law as, under conditions of difficult access to capital, the issuance of these bonds allows for effective and rapid provision of capital adequacy and thus financial stability. The appropriate capital adequacy of the banking system is crucial for maintaining the country's appropriate rating. The non-compliance with this restriction can thus cause irreparable harm to the State and further increase the costs of its indebtedness. In this direction, the Group of Members understands and in principle supports the proposed solutions covered by the novelty and the two remaining decisions. However, during the course of the examination of these documents at the meeting of the parent working body, it has proved necessary that at least the representatives of the people, if not only the people, obtain an overview of all the documents available to our Government in this regard. Here I am thinking mainly about the basic data on the operation of NLB and NKBM and on the simulations of ownership changes, on the basis of which we could assess in our parliamentary group that they have provided governments with the protection of Slovenian companies, that is, debtors to banks that will not be owned by a potential new owner of the bank are sufficient. Indeed, there may be growing public concerns that the envisaged recapitalisation could lead to the valuation of state assets. The latter are also pointed out by the most prominent experts, so we are rightly concerned about the second stage of the sale of state property, as the opposition says, under the table. On the other hand, in the DeSUS Group, we understand that the Government cannot disclose all data. If the previously expressed fear of the sale of state property is unjustifiable, it is entirely reasonable that the Government negotiates and talks behind closed doors, since it is only so possible to expect successful arrangements. For this reason, our parliamentary group cannot take a clear position at this time on supporting these acts, but we will decide after the debate held in this Chamber and after the additional information provided by the government representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u38	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Our coalition commitment to rehabilitate the Slovenian banking system is clear: "We will create the conditions for eliminating the credit crunch and demand responsibility for the poor operation of banks." With regard to the claim of liability, the first moves already show that, for example, some of the most responsible gentlemen did not receive a discharge in 2011 at the recent meeting of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. In addition to many problematic issues in the public financial, economic, social and all other areas, this coalition has thus also received the reconstruction of the Slovenian banking system. As it is said, some activities are already under way. Here I would like to express my expectation that a careful review of the New Ljubljana Bank will be completed as soon as possible. This will only show how many bad claims, illiquid investments, and so on, the bank has. It is logical that a country that is the majority owner should know exactly what the situation is in the bank; we do not have this data at the moment. Banks in Slovenia have accumulated a lot of bad loans in their balance sheets, resulting in a so-called credit crunch. Credit activity in Slovenia has stalled. Thus, Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor have not carried out their basic mission for at least three years – financial servicing of the Slovenian economy. Of course, there is also a need to remember what some bankers say. In Slovenia we have, thank God, some good bankers, even though they are previously seen by foreign banks as domestic banks. They say that it is not true that all banks would have a so-called credit crunch and that the truth is that the economy does not have a demand for credit, which means that the problem is also on the economic side. The objectives of the draft law, supported by the New Slovenia Group of Members, are: to enable, in accordance with the recommendations of the regulator, the European Bank of the Agency, systemically important banks to achieve a minimum of 9 % capital adequacy measured with the highest quality core capital. Since the financial power of the owners of the banks has decreased significantly and the recapitalisations by the owners are therefore significantly hampered, banks have an alternative opportunity to increase capital – and recommend the issue of popularly-called Coco bonds. Ensure the capital adequacy of the banking system, which is key to maintaining the country's appropriate rating. The proposed law does not provide for the use of budgetary resources during a period for which the state budget has already been adopted. The tight economic and financial situation revealed the insufficient capital adequacy of banks in the European or global scale. Since the financial power of the owners of banks has decreased significantly and the consequences of recapitalisation by owners are significantly hampered, regulators around the world as an alternative opportunity to increase capital recommend the issue of CoCo bonds, contingent convertible bonds. Such banking instruments shall be considered by regulators, including the European Banking Agency, as the highest quality form of CoreTier 1. However, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to draw attention to some of the facts when we are talking about the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. Today's debate, and today's debate probably the future, certainly cannot and must not be the same as the discussions of some average law, although they are all extremely important. By this law they do not sell either the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Maribor Credit Bank, as is often the case in recent days with demagog and very bitter speech or politicisation. When and if we sell anything, which is state-owned, however, colleagues and colleagues, we will not be able to simplify ourselves about the price, because none will be right and right. As far as New Slovenia’s views or New Slovenia’s policies are concerned, bad investments must be sold immediately. This is also suggested by some important Slovenian bankers, which I mentioned earlier. Colleagues and colleagues! The debate on bank rehabilitation must be worth the parliamentary level of debate, not the market debate and the inn debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u40	And also on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen! Is it really right to sell our largest bank with some new financial instrument, which has been mentioned several times today? In Positive Slovenia, we strongly oppose such a way of dealing with our property. The amendment coalition introduces a new financial instrument, the so-called Coco bonds, which we turn into a capital share at a certain point. All of this may still be adopted in Positive Slovenia and even supported by law if it does not prove that the Government has no answers and that it does not even know how many bonds the country is supposed to buy, nor how this will affect the budget deficit. "I don't know. I can't talk about it. I don't know because it's temporary solutions. I can't talk about this information." These were almost the only answers we received on the Finance Committee by the Secretary of State. The consideration of the proposed amendment to the Law on Banking on the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I have said on several occasions, has been akin to real crime. It turns out that the government wants to change the ownership structure of the bank under the table or get the Bioncomémémé for sale of the largest Slovenian bank, without knowing anyone or how, or at any price, they would sell it. Mr Minister, it would be fair to tell us and not that on the committee itself we have found that, in fact, the moment when bonds are converted into capital shares already exists, and that another partner in the bank will immediately turn his CoCo bonds into capital and, of course, increase his share, and the share of the Republic of Slovenia will decrease. It's logical and it can't be different! In order to change the ownership structure of our bank in this way, it is unacceptable. You'll sell it under the table. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, and for you this and such is acceptable! A colleague and colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, at the request of your President, Mr Žerjev, was convened in July 2010 an urgent meeting of the Finance Committee on the topic of NLB sales, where he said: "Last time, especially in the last week and even this week, it was clear from the media that something was happening again in the area of bank ownership restructuring, to say this, our most important and largest NLB banks. And since this is certainly a very important topic, a strategic theme, we decided in the Slovenian People's Party and made an application for an urgent meeting. We're in the Slovenian People's Party against getting sold. In fact, this bank must, according to our assessment, remain in the majority ownership of Slovenia." And what's going on today? Where are you today with your big words? Again one of your already well-known populists: when I am a Member, I say one thing when I am a Minister or a Coalition Member I make another. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way in Positive Slovenia that we can agree that you are treating our common property so irresponsiblely and we strongly oppose it. We're protesting this kind of sale of our bank. If you don't give any answers, or if this maneuver of yours is going to save our banks, we can only think of two things: whether you don't know what you're doing or whether you don't want to say certain things on purpose. It's both very bad for our country. The government should draw up a capital investment management strategy at the time of the start of the mandate, not that you are still waiting for preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, you obviously do not realize that you have not gained ownership of the country, but that you have to manage it in the interests of all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u42	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended law were not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will make a decision today or tomorrow morning in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to and additions to the excise duty law as required. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I also give the floor here to further explain the proposal to Minister Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Dear Members and Members! It is a simple but important amendment to the law, whereby we want to provide additional resources to balance public finances by moving the date of the increase in excise duty on cigarettes scheduled for 1 October already on 1 July. This is said to increase excise duty from 1 July to €90, a minimum requirement for excise duty within the European Union. With this, of course, before the tourist season, when sales are the largest, we want to obtain additional budget resources. At the same time, we propose that this law should provide for a double increase of excise duty on 1 October to €94 and €97 per thousand cigarettes on 1 January. Comparisons with neighbouring countries, particularly those richer than us, have shown that retail prices of cigarettes for the euro are up to two times higher than in Slovenia. This is said to be quite a bit of room in the area of taxation, and it is the responsibility of the Government to use this space during the balancing of public finances. At the same time, we are proposing a change in the tax or excise duty structure by stepping up the specific excise duty, that is, the part of the total excise duty paid in the same amount to all cigarettes, is not a percentage of the price, and is gradually increasing from the current 20 to 50% on 1 January next year. This also brings us closer to relationships that are more common elsewhere in the European Union. Sweden is, for example, an example of a country that has very aggressively increased these specific excise duties, of course, a specific part of excise duty. The projected effects on public finances are an additional four million euros this year, an additional 8 million euros in the coming year compared to what has been envisaged for the current level and the anticipated increase in the existing law so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The report will be presented by Mrs Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u45	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 22nd emergency meeting. 6th this year, the Government submitted a proposal for a review and adoption following an urgent procedure to the National Assembly for consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 19th session. On 6 this year, he stipulated that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in an urgent manner. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The service to the bill has no substantive comments. No amendments were tabled to the proposed law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory addendum to the explanation of the articles, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, as a representative of the proposed law, gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative said that the explanation of the need for prior periods for the modification of excise duties was modest, as the reasons for the transitional periods should also be presented. In the debate, some members of the Committee stressed that a problematic change or increase in particular is specific excise duties, since they felt that the most expensive cigarettes were less likely to be attracted. The members of the Committee were interested in both the reasons for the increase in excise duty and the assessment of the impact on budget revenues. The government representative said that the budget revenues in terms of estimates would be higher than at constant specific excise duty, as market conditions change and those that affect retail prices. It is also a fact that retail prices of cigarettes are unstable if general excise duties are high. It follows from the calculations that at 20% of the specific excise duty, more expensive cigarettes could be valued, which would have a negative impact on budget revenues. Therefore, a gradual increase in specific excise duties is necessary, as it does not cause such fluctuations in the prices of cigarettes and risks. Following a brief discussion on the draft law on the home body, no amendments were adopted and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly that the draft law on amendments to the Law on excise duties should be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! Article 1 of the bill proposes an increase in the excise duty on cigarettes. With the proposed increase in excise duty to €90 per thousand, Slovenia will already reach the target amount of the excise duty on cigarettes set by the Tobacco Directive as a minimum to be achieved by the Member States as from 1 January 2014. The amendment also proposes a further gradual increase in excise duty, reaching €94 on 1 October 2012, €97 per thousand cigarettes on 1 January 2013. However, the first paragraph of Article 1 also amends the specific excise duty. A gradual increase in the specific excise duty is proposed by reaching 50 % of the total tax burden of cigarettes in the weighted average retail price in January 2013. The specific excise duty is one of the parameters already laid down in the tobacco directive, ranging from 5 to 76.5% of the total tax burden on cigarettes in the weighted average retail price class. As of 2014, the tobacco directive raises the lower limit of the specific excise duty to 7.5%. After examining the excise duty structure, the bill states that other Member States are increasing the share of the specific excise duty, i.e. a fixed amount for all types of cigarettes, at the expense of the proportional excise duty – paid as a percentage of the retail price of each type of cigarettes. This leads to an approximation of the taxation of cigarettes from different price categories. In the Social Democrats Group, we do not oppose the proposed solutions to the increase in nominal excise duty because the increase in excise duty is moderate and will not lead to excessive prices of cigarettes. For that reason, Slovenia maintains a competitive excise tax policy on cigarettes. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are questioning the increase in the specific excise duty, gradually from 20% to 50%. The increase in the specific excise duty will undermine the relationship between lower- and higher-priced cigarettes. For example, the difference in the price of the lowest-selling low-priced cigarettes Boss and West compared to the higher-priced Marlboro class will practically halve. Thus, more expensive cigarettes used by lower - income smokers and fewer cigarettes for higher - income earners will be encouraged. The increase in the specific excise duty from 20 % to 50 % of the total tax burden on cigarettes in the class of weighted average retail prices means that excise duty revenues will be lower than without changes in the specific excise duty. Well, in the assessment of this impact, government and expert group assessments vary greatly, and there are a few ten heavy millions that our budget would still need. Regardless of concerns, as we say, we will not oppose these changes in the law. At the same time, I take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Government to the tax policy on oil derivatives. Croatia has much lower car fuel prices than Slovenia. For this reason, we propose to the Government that, at least for the summer months, it adapts the excise policy on the basis of which tourists and motorists and other transit transport in Slovenia can buy fuel and thereby increase the revenue of the state budget. If this is how we like to reduce our spending, especially at the expense of those who bear it most, let us increase it in ways that are least painful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Say good-bye again! Members of the National Gazette will be happy to support the bill, which foresees an increase in excise duties and thus raise the price of cigarettes, but I am a little in the dilemma because I am only a smoker. The Directive brings this requirement, we are shortening time and thus helping our budget to obtain some additional millions of euros. Of course, I am glad that we all support this, we are all in favour, because smoking is harmful to health and so on. They say that smokers die younger, they say, we stand less at the time of age, there are fewer pension benefits for us, and some other positive thing might be found, so it's not the kind of damage that we've been persecuted at all ends of the day. However, this is the situation in the world, and it will be the case with us, and I will end up supporting this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u50	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič. I don't know if you've chosen all the members of the group to perform according to the criteria of whether or not they are smokers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Your Honor, hello! I'm one of the non-smokers. Among the objectives and principles for urgent changes to the excise law, the Government, as the proponent, wrote: "The main purpose of the proposed solution is to provide additional resources to the state budget while at the same time providing a higher level of protection of human health." On behalf of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, I can say that these are also the main reasons why we will support this bill. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also have written in our programme that we will tax the higher luxury, which certainly includes cigarettes. Nevertheless, we would like to hear from the Minister of Finance whether he can ensure that the effect of the law is not exactly the opposite of that of fiscal impact, as some say in their opinions that the decline in sales will not result in a higher inflow to the budget. Without a doubt, however, the law will have an effect on the reduction of cigarette consumption and thus, of course, contribute to improving the health of the population. It is a worrying fact that has been published in a recent study to smoke more and more young people, despite better information and public awareness of the harmfulness of smoking. Higher tobacco prices as a result of the increase in excise duties will certainly have a positive impact on lower consumption, especially in young people, which will affect human health. Therefore, this proposal has an additional indirect impact on savings in the health treasury. It is not popular to support tax increases in the case of an increase in excise duties on cigarettes, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are confident that all Members and Members will be happy to press the button and vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. From the outset, I should like to say that the DeSUS Group will support the proposal of the law, which provides for an increase in excise duty on cigarettes. The novelty proposal accelerates the planned increase in excise duties on cigarettes, so that the promotion of cigarettes is expected as early as 1 July instead of October. It is also envisaged that excise duties will continue to increase gradually. In accordance with the European Directive of the European Union, Member States must meet minimum excise duty for cigarettes of EUR 90 per thousand by 1 January 2014 at the latest. According to the law in force, Slovenia would have reached this amount on October 1st, but the government is now proposing to move this date to July 1st. In addition, the proposal for a new excise duty law provides for a further gradual increase in excise duty of EUR 94 per thousand cigarettes, which is for a kilogram of cigarettes, from 1 October and 97 from 1 January 2013. Since the increase in excise duties, the Government has been promising an additional EUR 4 million of budget revenue this year and an additional EUR 8 million in 2013. In the DeSUS Group, we do not, in principle, attach ourselves to the proposals of laws that constitute a legitimate means for a country to collect more taxes on its citizens, and in particular at a time when we are facing today, when the number of unemployed is increasing when many lives have already been well established. The excise duties also represent one of the tax burdens. It's a sales tax and goods tax. However, we believe that raising this part of excise duty does not constitute a general tax burden. We must take into account the fact that these products certainly do not belong in the basket of basic necessities of life, but represent, we can say, luxury goods. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, respected smokers and smokers! The main reason for the amendment of the excise legislation is the harmonisation of excise legislation with the legal order of the European Union. The so-called tobacco directive provides for a minimum excise duty of €90 per thousand pieces of cigarettes sold. This objective must be fulfilled by the Member States and incorporated into national legislation by 1 January 2014. Slovenia, by increasing excise duty on cigarettes, fulfils the obligations laid down in the European Directive. The second reason for this first and subsequent gradual increases in excise duties on cigarettes is the public financial aspect. In the case of slow economic growth, the increase in excise duties is expected to result in a significant increase in inflows to the state budget. For 2012, additional budget revenues of €4 million are expected under this heading and €8 million in 2013. As a third and very important aspect, followed by an increase in excise duties, however, the health aspect is a health aspect. Increasing excise duty after experience and statistics has had an impact on the reduction of smoking. Smoking is the cause of many heart disease, chronic lung disease, and lung cancer. Globally, tobacco smoking is the second leading cause of death. Smokers not only harm themselves but also people around them who inhale a mixture of gases and particles that make up the smoke of a burning cigarette and the smoke of smokers. Passive smoking also causes a risk of heart disease and lung cancer in non-smokers. The treatment of these diseases is linked to high costs and it is right that those with unhealthy lifestyles contribute more to the budget, namely smoking, to the emergence of the disease. Human health and the clean environment are the most important factors in regulating the excise system. Since higher excise duty on tobacco products is due to a decrease in negative effects and a decrease in the use of products causing these effects, this is certainly a positive consequence of higher excise duties. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported for this amendment of the Law on excise duty and time will show if the rates of excise duty are truly optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Thank you. Your Honor! First of all, I'd like to place numbers on Mr. Starman. In 2007, according to an EHIS survey, 24.9% of the population aged 15 and over smoked in Slovenia. Following the introduction of the smoking ban in all closed public and workplaces in August 2007, there was a slight decline in smokers. In May 2011, Eurobarometer published a study showing that in Slovenia it smokes just over a quarter, 26% of the population aged 15 years and over. The two analyses therefore show that the proportion of smokers is stabilised around 25% of the population aged 15 years or more. So, respectable! In Slovenia, 458 000 people smoke. By this time about 3 million cigarettes had already been extinguished by this day, at least so many will be lit by the end of the day. We smoke together in Slovenia on the day 6 million 500 thousand cigarettes. These are the data of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. The government emphasises that the reasons for amending the law are health and public finances and, of course, the result of harmonisation with the directives of the European Union. Just from the point of view of providing additional resources to the national budget, citizens and citizens smoke significantly too little and smoke substantially too slowly. By the way, the first to complain about excise duties was Martin Krpan: "Give me a letter," he said, "which will be valid before every lady, that I will carry English salt without worry around the world." But Minister Gregor's nothing. We know that. The possibilities for increasing tax burdens are extremely limited, especially in the face of negative economic growth, of problems with employment. In the budget debate in Positive Slovenia, we proposed indirect taxes for possible buffers. We are faced – and if this is the expression of the crisis, then the recession is not over – with a markedly low ability to generate public finances. While excise duties are both theoretical and practical among more reliable types of taxation. Their collection costs are relatively low, immediate and highly predictable effects. The low financial effects foreseen by the proposer of this law are based on the assumption that the quantities of cigarettes sold will decrease by an average of 3 % per year compared to 2011. It is also true that a change in law favors or places more expensive cigarettes in a more favourable position. On the Committee on Finance, we tried to remove this unnecessary anomaly with the amendment, but unfortunately, we failed with our colleagues from the SD. Finally, for those of you who are still monitoring the implementation of the coalition treaty. The excise duty is referred to in Chapter 2.7, which has a very significant title: Reduce excise duty. No excise duty, no excise duty cuts! So much for the relationship between words and actions. Everything, in short, is not predictable. According to its programme, the Group of Positive Slovenia will strongly support the bill, more for health reasons than for public financial reasons, which are not entirely convincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Ms Patricia Šulin on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u59	President, thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty proposes a change of excise duty on cigarettes. The Tobacco Directive lays down the minimum excise duty for cigarettes to be achieved by Member States on 1 January 2014. The prices of cigarettes in Slovenia are among the lower in Europe, the cost of treating smoking-related diseases exceeds the excise revenue from the sale of cigarettes. With the amendment of Article 51 of the current law, an additional step-by-step increase in excise duty on cigarettes is proposed. Thus, on 1 January next year, Slovenia will reach the target amount of excise duty on cigarettes set by the Tobacco Directive as a minimum. The new law provides for further increases in excise duty on cigarettes on 1 October to €94 and €97 per thousand on 1 January 2013. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duty, as it also recognises that smoking is still a pressing social problem and that the aim of the law is also to reduce the percentage of smokers, as research has shown that the high price of tobacco products affects the reduction of the percentage of smokers. Because I am a non-smoker myself, I invite smokers, especially those who are present in this hall to think of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Missions, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members with a first-signed Dr. Gregor Virant. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I think you all know the content of the proposal. I'd like to say this. I think that today we have an excellent opportunity, a great opportunity to send a positive message from this house; a message that we are able, unanimously, to cut into our own rights, as has been the shrinking consumption in many areas of the public sector, that Members are not exempt. It is true that we have already reduced our salaries under the Public Finance Balance Act, but this is also an important step today. I already said at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that with this million and a half, as far as this is concerned, we will not save the country, we will not save the state budget, but this is an important message. See, if you are looking at how individual rights under the Public Finance Balance Act have shrunk, you will see that, in fact, the right that is most violated in the context of austerity is the right to a Member's compensation in the context of reducing public spending. On average, this decreases by about 50% if you take the weighted. Immediately in second place in the Public Finance Balance Act there are financial rights of the church, they are reduced by 20%, and then for quite some time nothing and then we come, let's say, to a reduction of about 5% effectively, as much as the wages in the public sector are falling, about 7.5% effectively, so much the maternity benefits are falling, again, if we look at them falling only in the last 9 months, and this is some fair and logical order of lowering public spending. In fact, you have two options: whether you join us in sending this message together, or you decide to put fire and sulphur and negative energy on the proponents, but this will go on your account not ours. We have a very nice weekend ahead of us, sunny, and believe me, you'll be more satisfied and it'll be a better weekend if you and I support this marriage today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you so much for the introduction. The draft law was treated by the Mandate-Volution Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak, President of the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to you, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The mandate-holder committee shall be held at the 1st and 2nd sessions of the 4th session of the 12th session. 6. 2012 as a parent working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members was submitted by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Gregor Virant to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 17th meeting of the Committee of the Regions. 6. 2012 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. In addition to the explanation given at the meeting, the representative of the proposed law's proposal stressed that we are deciding, in the framework of this proposal, to intervene in our own rights and privileges, which is not a pleasant exercise, but in return we are contributing to the greater reputation and credibility of the institution and the function of the Member State. The bill brings the following essential solutions: it reduces the time taken to receive the remuneration after the termination of the post, from one year to 6 months, with the possibility of renewal due to successive mandates, it reduces the basis for the remuneration from the current 100 % of the salary to 80% of the salary, the right to compensation may be extended to the fulfilment of the pension requirement, but for a maximum period of 6 months and not to the date of 1 year. Additional earnings from any title shall be deducted from the refund, which is the novelty of the proposed solution, and a more precise procedure for the recognition of that right shall be proposed, provided that the applicant also provides evidence of the fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining the right or of the inability to return to his previous service. The proposal also refers to Members who are already receiving compensation and provide for a milder solution with regard to the limitation of the duration of the right, which is limited to 8 months. The savings as a result of the proposed changes, as Mr Virant has already said, amount to around EUR 1.3 million to 1.5 million, which will not contribute significantly to the improvement of the current financial and economic situation, but is, of course, an important measure at a symbolic level when public spending is reduced in all segments. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had drawn up two principal comments in its written opinion. The first point concerns the principles of equality in the regulation of the right to compensation after the termination of the function. This principle requires that substantially equal situations be regulated in the same way, which means that the proposed changes to the right to compensation after the end of the term of office should also be reflected in the example of the Member's office for all other officials whose right to compensation belongs to them in the same way as Members. It highlighted the requirement for an equivalent, comparable and, at the same time, legal system-wide set of rights after the end of the mandate for all officials belonging to them. Second principle, the notice refers to the validity of the law and to the admissibility of interference with acquired rights. The bill also applies to Members who have already acquired the right, which is an infringement of the acquired rights with the right to remain in force, which is referred to in theory as the so-called unfair retroactivity protected by the principle of confidence in law. It follows from the case law of the Constitutional Court that the fundamental criteria for possible intervention in the acquired rights of urgency and proportionality are substantively key proportionality, which has a particular weight and has already been defined by the Constitutional Court as the admissibility of such measures, which are not excessive. In many cases, the Constitutional Court has already ruled on infringements of the rights acquired, while it is essential that the legislator has arguments justifying an intervention in the rights acquired, that these arguments are constitutionally relevant and that the secured goods are so strong that they consider an intervention in the rights acquired. It should also be added that in the assessment, the predictability of the changes and the appropriate transitional arrangements are very important. The legislative and legal services had no specific comments on the text of the proposal, except for the proposal to supplement Article 4, which would contribute to the more specificity of the text. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the majority of the proposed groups announced support for the bill, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia expressed its opposition to the bill and stressed that their proposals had not been taken into account in the coordination process. The Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia agrees to a 6-month limitation on the right to parliamentary compensation rather than on the other proposed solution. The members of the coalition group's coalition group considered that the solution whereby the amount and duration of the compensation were linked to the Member's past work was appropriate. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission considers that, on the proposal of Richard Branislj, it has also adopted certain amendments and, of course, recommended to the Government that the same restrictions on rights [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u65	It shall accept the other officers as soon as possible. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Kristina Valenčič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the last 20 years, several initiatives have already been put into the legislative procedure to change the rights of Members and other officials, but unfortunately they have not been adopted. It is worth mentioning that the Constitutional Court has already repealed Article 39 of the Law on Members, which laid down more favourable conditions for Members in obtaining and exercising the right to a pension on the grounds that the rights of the highest state authorities must be in a reasonable proportion to the rights granted by the State to other citizens. The Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia has also submitted a proposal to the Government in September 2009 to prepare amendments to the Law on Members to respect and comply with the provisions of the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. The unions note that in Slovenia we have two categories of unemployed persons: former Members and officials on the one hand, and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have lost their jobs without their guilt, and by the Office of the Republic of Employment receive monetary compensation for the period of unemployment. They point to the unacceptable unequal treatment of these two categories of unemployed persons, despite the exact same actual situation. Well, they're all unemployed and unemployed. During the financial crisis and the tightening of rights in all areas, it is clear, of course, that Members must also contribute their shares. The fact is that Members or politicians find it more difficult to find employment because of the exercise of their parliamentary function or political participation. As many mandates follow us in a row, the loss of professional contact with the former working environment is so much greater. However, it is also true, and it is also demonstrated in practice that the current arrangements for receiving compensation encourage former Members not to seek a job for a year and rather receive a one-year remuneration at the level of the salary they received at the time of the exercise of their post. That is why we probably all agree that there is still a need for change. The changes or solutions made by the law are aimed at rational spending of budgetary resources, as we reduce the time taken to receive compensation, lower the amount of compensation and abolish the right to receive annual leave. Members and Members of the National Gazette feel the duty to share the burden of the financial crisis and to adjust the level of our benefits according to the financial capacity of the State Treasury. With regard to the possible constitutional dispute of individual provisions, this has been considered: with the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, we have also reduced the so-called maternity benefits and the regress and salaries of public servants. Some legal experts, such as Dr. Rajko Pirnat, believe that this is a serious procedure, which is reasonable, since it is a reduction in the remuneration and not a reduction in the back. Which means that the Member of the previous term will not even have to return the euro. In view of the severe public financial distress, it would therefore be difficult to substantiate the issue of unconstitutionality. Moreover, the right to compensation is not a key human right but is a social credit. As it is said, the current social situation requires us to adapt the public finances system and the level of benefits to our country's revenues. And it's in its own kind. Therefore, Members and Members of the Civil Code will support the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The content that we are going to discuss today has been the subject of controversial debates many times in the past. It has also tried to resolve this problem, and somehow there was no real will, no perseverance, and no perseverance. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we hope and also believe that this time we will be able to regulate the area of duration of receipt of the parliamentary compensation and the amount of that. We went through all possible options and eventually agreed to limit the amount of the compensation to 80% of the Member's last salary and the duration of the remuneration to 6 months. However, those Members who have already carried out this function have the right to an additional three months of remuneration for each previous term of office. Members of the People's Party believe that we really cannot compare someone who is already a Member of several mandates and someone who has sat in Parliament as an alternate Member for only a few months. If we are to maintain the integrity of a Member's function as an elected representative of the people, we must also take into account the fact that someone has been performing this function and has therefore strayed from his former career. Thus, the fair compensation system is the main part of this bill and we are pleased with the People's Party's Group because our proposals were almost identical in the previous term. The purpose of the bill itself is therefore to save and solidarity in nature. In the Group of the People's Party, we believe that there is really no reason for anyone else to speak out and not support the proposed limitations in the area of parliamentary compensation at the moment of resorting to austerity measures. Even though a new way of receiving compensation is being introduced also for those currently receiving it, which is a compromise solution in the spirit of each contributing its share to saving, we believe that there is no legitimate basis for this area to remain intact. Let me mention the arrangements we've missed so far. In fact, when a Member receives a refund, it shall be deducted from the amount received from any revenue that it may receive at the time of receipt of the refund. We know that the cases that have made a bad impression on the public in particular, and we Members do not want such stories to continue. While we are in public, Members of the Group of the People's Party do not expect any commendation or any great approval from the public. It will certainly continue to be heard that we Members are under-declining ourselves, that we do not yet deserve this reduced payment, that we may be able to abolish the compensation at all or even so that we can work on a voluntary basis. We also understand such views, but we can only say that these solutions are completely comparable to those of other countries in the European Community. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will, of course, support this law as co-signers, and we really believe that there are no reasons for not all other Members to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u71	President, thank you so much for your word. Also on my part a good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament. We have tabled a novelty of the Law on Members of Parliament and Members themselves with a view to achieving a pre-election commitment to reshape the field of the Ombudsman's rights after the end of the term of office. The times in which we are, and the strong commitment of the Government to reduce public spending and consolidate public finances, require a move to show that we are willing to cut ourselves off and set an example not only for the public but also for the private sector. The urgency of the regulation of Members' rights after the end of their term of office has also appeared in previous mandates. Several drafts have been drawn up on this subject, which have been carried out by several coalition coordinations, but there has never been such a degree of consensus that the proposal would at least be formally put into the procedure. In this mandate, at least in the coalition, we have agreed to lower the ratings of Members after the end of the term of office. Members cease to serve as Members for various reasons, some are not re-elected, others are not running – the early termination of the function for objective and subjective reasons is simply a matter of urgency. When drafting the text, we have consistently respected the above. We have also taken into account the elements that the rights of Members must be socially acceptable, that the scope of the rights of Members in the Global must by no means exceed the current situation, that rights must be proportionate to the length of the mandate and to the limitations of non-compatibilities, that the rights of Members should be in support of the credibility of the Member or of the National Assembly itself, that the rights of Members must be clearly defined and equal to that of all Members and that they must stimulate Members, that, after the expiry of the mandate, they should be activated as soon as possible, effectively return to the working relationship or to professional activities. In the opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, this is duly included in the text of the novel, which shortens the period of receipt of the refund and also the amount of the latter. For this reason, our party's parliamentary group will support these changes and we expect support from all the other groups. Finally, let me just point out the issue of the evaluation of the function of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps we are doing ourselves a bear service with this proposal, which we are now considering. The populist opinion speaks only of the privileges of Members, but no one sees that our worker exceeds the normal 8 hours, that we work many times at night, that our weekends are actually more or less always working. In short, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that Members are entitled to compensation after the end of the mandate, of course under certain conditions clearly defined by the proposal. Anomalies, such as the right to compensation for a Member serving for less than half a year, and the Member in detention and the Member receiving another allowance at the same time, are abolished. As has already been said, we support the proposed solution, so we will vote in favour of the amendment of the Law on Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I don't think it's necessary to waste extra time imagining what this law is introducing, because colleagues have already stressed most things before. However, I would like to touch a few other things, but they do touch this law in some way. I am disappointed that the coalition and the opposition have failed to agree on the content of this law. You know that there have been several attempts to achieve this agreement, but that the first version of this law has been removed from the procedure, and yet we have not been able to agree. Apparently, there are still conspiracy theories in Slovenia because there is an article in every article of each law or in every law that is so controversial for someone that it simply cannot go forward and we can never agree. That's bad, but that's how it is. In any case, all of us sitting in this Chamber must be very well aware that the Member's profession is extremely impeccable and that whatever Members do, this reputation will be difficult to raise in a very short time. I've said it many times myself, and I'm going to point out once again: if we were to lower our wages by half, we'd say we have too much left if we went down to zero, we'd say, uh, that's too much. If thousands of euros were to pay each month to be able to sit in this hall, maybe that would be enough, but I'm not quite sure. That's the way it is. There is a public impression that we are Members of the ultra-rich people. This is probably what you feel when people come to you on Mondays and ask you for various contributions. Of course, this is a matter that has been characterized by articles and media contributions. For example, one of these was in one of the printed newspapers, where one third of the December and even January, like the Czech, yeah, was paid by the Member, and they were talking about gross amounts. Of course, people were very angry and angry, if you look at the bastards, the MPs, the high wages they get. I know it's awkward to talk about these things, but we're responsible for a lot of things ourselves. The more we argue about penguins in Parliament, the worse the reputation of Parliament will be. If we look at the status of Slovenian Members in the European Comparative sense – a study was also made when we prepared this law, from which you can see that our status is one of the worst. It is still a feeling among people that we are well-paid people, but we are one of the worst-paid Members compared to MEPs in Europe. They are paid less, according to the data, only in Hungary and Slovakia. When I was recently in Brussels, I can say as an interesting thing, I have spoken with my fellow Members from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are also better paid there, for example, and have better benefits. So that no one will misinterpret this, that I am defending and fighting for our privileges, as is widely said in public, so I am very close to the solution that I hope we will introduce in the subsequent amendments to this Law on Members, which is that our wages and our benefits will be linked to the success of Slovenia. What am I trying to say? The more successful Slovenia, the higher our wages will be. For example, one such case, I think Slovakia, where the salaries of Slovak Members are linked to the economic growth of the country. Which means that if we did bad work and ran this country badly, our wages could be reduced by 5% if things were going well, we could get paid. In short, this is one of the cases that could be very effective, even in the Member States, to bring some kind of healthy reward to a better success than we will lead this country, and we will also be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In fact, the new law corrects only two articles of the existing law, so I estimate that all the pumps that the President of the National Assembly and the government coalition are trying to create around this law are not even necessary. It is also right for Members and Members to join the package of austerity measures, without pump, without political marketing. The first to be signed under this law is the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant, who, inter alia, wrote in his explanation of the novel: "The current regime does not allow effective control and prevention of possible abuses. In fact, the refund only belongs to those who cannot return to their previous organisation after the end of their term of office within a certain period of time or who do not get a job after the end of their term of office. In practice, however, it is often difficult to distinguish between cases where compensation is granted justifiably and cases where this is not the case." End of reference from the law. The very practice of the first man, who is signed under the law today, by the way, including the first man in the legislative branch of power, has shown how difficult it is to distinguish between the belief that he is entitled to something and, of course, to set the criteria for everyone else. Perhaps you will recall the election campaign when the media announces, I will say, the unethical conduct of Mr Gregor Virant in the period following the termination of his ministerial function. At that time, Mr Gregor Virant, the man who is correcting the same laws today, violated three legal acts. First: The Law on Members – he played it smoothly. Second: he violated the Income Act, Article 35, and, last but not least, he violated his own code of ethics, which he introduced as Minister of Public Administration. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we stress that, once again, from a moral and ethical point of view, it is absolutely right that Members also contribute their share to the austerity measures or package. And it would be wise for this rationalisation to take place, or for government ministers and other officials in this country, whom I do not know, to be included, to leave the novel on purpose. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has formed its own working group, we have prepared our amendment to the Law on Members, which has undoubtedly been more systematic, integrated, taking into account the principle of the legality of procedures and which has taken account of the principle of equality for all Members after the end of the term of office. But, as has already been said today by the representative of the Commission on Elections, our proposals have not been taken into account. Not one. Therefore, he doubts who is plotting theories, and I do not think they are justified in this place, especially if they come from representatives of the government coalition. None of our proposals have been taken into account. I will not say what has happened and how individuals have played the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the procedures of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, but the fact that this law brings with it another important symbolism is no doubt. In this mandate, however, I believe that you will agree with me, the legislative branches of authority which should be and which is, by the constitution, one of the three equivalent branches of authority, has accelerated jurisdiction. I will remind you of the recently adopted Public Finance Balance Act, where the government coalition has strongly supported the Government's proposal that the Government has taken the power to decide on the VAT increase, the value added tax to be adopted in the legislative process. Last but not least, this submission to the government, when the National Assembly becomes nothing more than a voting machine, I believe that this law just confirms it. We're demeaning ourselves. Regardless of the austerity measures involved, I say once again: the symbolism of this law and that of doing it is the one that is important. In short, we will not support the positive Slovenia Group for the above reasons of the law, but we will continue to support some concrete reasons why the law is not appropriate to support this national assembly, which should be – and in the first place respect the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We are signatories to this law in our parliamentary group, and we also support it. We believe that the law of time and the situation is properly governed by the situation of Members after the expiry of the mandate, and so on with regard to the level of compensation, with only the need to stress that it takes into account past work in the mandate, that is to say those additional functions given to individual Members. This is also not the case with those who work in companies. For those who have additional responsibilities probably also have some additional responsibilities, and it is right that this also be taken into account in the measurement of the compensation. We also believe that the length of remuneration, which is slightly extended by the number of mandates granted by a Member of the National Assembly, is also properly regulated. Not too much, just a few. The law, as this part is substantially reduced, the time of receipt of the refund, forces the Member to seek employment more actively after the end of the term of office. I think it is right, although we know that obtaining a new job for Members, any party, any colour after the expiry of the mandate is a rather difficult and difficult task. It also seems appropriate that those who fulfil the conditions for retirement or those who have deposited employment contracts with the former employer are not entitled to receive compensation. They may retire immediately or return to their former place of employment. So far there has been the most, I'll say, violation. It should be pointed out, however, that for the first time in the Law on Members, a criminal provision has been introduced for those who do not comply with the conditions laid down in the law. Unfortunately, I must say that we have failed with the proposal to better or otherwise arrange a fifth of the work of Members in the National Assembly, and also in this mandate, we are facing a case where some Members prefer to do additional work before regular work in the National Assembly. This is also when the National Assembly considers and makes important or even most important decisions. I hope that the attitude towards the work of the National Assembly in this mandate will change, that such cases will not take place and that Members will carry out those tasks for which they have been elected to the National Assembly and not those for which they represent their additional or complementary work. I think that the attitude towards the National Assembly, to the work of the National Assembly and to responsibility needs to be changed a little bit. The priority should only be given to those tasks entrusted to Members by voters in the elections. As we say, we will support the marriage in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Let me say in the introduction that, as an opposition party, we have actively participated in the drafting of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Members, and let me also say that we will support it. At the same time, we must make it very clear, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that we wanted to apply, in amending this law, in particular, the principle of the maximum autonomy and independence of the National Assembly, as well as the maximum independence and independence of Members and Members. Indeed, the National Assembly is a legislative branch of government, which also has the task of overseeing the government during its tasks. And it is precisely the ability to control the government that requires the special position of Members and Members. In addition to the National Assembly, they have a similar position, such as constitutional judges and the Ombudsman. Just because they can do their job independently of many lobbying, they can do their job of many capital interests and then try to design, when we talk about the National Assembly, the legal solutions that prevent it. We note that in the 20-year history of Slovenia's independence, the National Assembly has not done a good job here. In our view, therefore, the role of the Member and the Member should be strengthened and their independence ensured. This law does not follow this, but responds to the economic crisis, and we support this law as well. So, just because we follow the measures that have taken on the status of many people in Slovenia, we also want to say by the Social Democrats that we support this law because we want to take on the same level of responsibility and consequences ourselves. However, we draw attention to the legal security of both former Members and the legal security of many other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who may be subject to the rights already acquired by law. And legal certainty is precisely what is essential for people to trust the state to trust Parliament; in short, they feel safe here and know that the legal system is behind them and allows them to act creatively. This law also interferes with the legal security of former Members and Members of Parliament, former colleagues and colleagues who no longer have this status on the basis of an electoral result. However, they had the status they had because they played their role in Parliament, which, I stress, had the role of control and the role of doing the best possible work in a way to exclude ourselves from many attempts at lobbying and, finally, the adoption of bad laws. We are also subject to an exceptional review of the anti-corruption commission, as well as to reporting – the Member must always report on who he has met, what he has discussed, so that the anti-corruption commission can also follow all these developments. It should also be said that it is precisely for this reason that a Member or a Member should not participate in the management bodies of companies, should not participate in the bodies which supervise the business of companies, and, last but not least, Members should not participate in bodies which form a public media programme scheme and should not participate in bodies that supervise the operation of public media. So this is the emphasis on autonomy, which is extremely important for ensuring both correct reporting and proper decision-making in companies. Unfortunately, in Parliament, we are faced with the government's aspirations to reduce the importance of Parliament in fact in order to obtain very difficult laws following urgent procedures, reduced procedures, in fact, to minimise the debate in Parliament and thus try to conceal the interests behind individual solutions. Many times these are the narrow interests of capital, not the interests that protect the interests of people and the well-being of all countries. We will support the law, but note that the status of a Member is something that needs to be upgraded in the future, not diminishing its importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. In this way, we have ended by moving the views of the groups and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. One amendment to Article 4 has been tabled, so I am putting this amendment, the amendment to Article 4, into the debate. I apologize, it was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss this amendment. I'm guessing yes. That's why I'm opening the application. Please, the application is in progress. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much again for your word. With this amendment, we try to correct what is most in the sky, which is what no lawyer should have allowed himself to be. For in this part the law is unconstitutional, as the Law-Legal Service also pointed out. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia makes it very clear that retroactivity is unacceptable. In this part, the law interferes with the rights already assigned to it. If, in my presentation of my position, I spoke about the reasons why the Group of the Positive Slovenia does not support this law, this is undoubtedly one and a very important resource, why we cannot support such a law in such a form. However, we have absolutely prepared an amendment, and I hope that the government coalition will hear very serious warnings from lawyers at least this time, the Legal and Legal Service – on this basis our amendment is prepared. By the way, since I have run out of time before, allow me to explain the amendments to other shortcomings or the anomaly of the novelty of the law. The law in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will absolutely not be supported in the form proposed, because, as I have already mentioned, it contains unacceptable retroactivity because it expresses the political ambitions of the ruling coalition in the part where it confers rights after the resignation of the parliamentary function even if the Member is appointed as Secretary-General or Secretary of State because of the work that the Member has been working on – and this has also been discussed by a colleague from the SDS – these are not clearly defined or stated. That's what we've been alerting you to. Since the law releases ministers and other officials, because the rights of Members are bound to a permanent function, and not least because it introduces even some kind, I will call it Virant's elitism, I will allow myself to do so. As part of this novel, the president was able to take care of himself again. Even after the expiry of his post, I will now say hypothetically if he does not get a job or work, he will be entitled to an allowance for the post, even if his function has already been extinguished. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we have proposed that the remuneration should be tied to the basic payment class of the Member after the expiry of the parliamentary function. I believe that no one, after the expiry of his post, is entitled and must not be entitled to the past functions or work he has performed in the past. This is what distinguishes Members. During the period of receipt of the refund, no one shall perform the function and therefore should not, at least in my opinion, be entitled to the functional allowance. If intentions are serious, we think it would make sense, but simply to our comments then he did not want to react and be heard by anyone from the government coalition. If you'll excuse me, when someone from the SLS, if I'm not mistaken in presenting my point of view, they say that marriage brings solidarity. On this particular occasion, I have proved to you that this law is not solidarity-oriented either within the National Assembly or members of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again: the amendment we have drafted in Positive Slovenia is well-meaning and follows the first and basic principle to be followed by the National Assembly, the legislative branch of power, the principle of legality. Allow me yet another thought, which I have been asking for some time when I am listening to, whether it is the President of the National Assembly who shakes his hand and says that even though the matter is not the most legal matter, who will hope in such times of crisis and so keenly disposed to the public to take initiatives before the Constitutional Court and to prove the unconstitutionality of certain proposals, or whether individual ministers, who even publicly, at the public meetings of the National Assembly, say that the legality is not sacred to them, that, in the first place, they lead their own opinion in their work, and the legality is that: if they are accidentally lucky and the laws or procedures are legal, right or wrong. That's worrying. The National Assembly should not have agreed to such logic. Legality is sacred and should at least be in this temple of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that we are talking about Article 4, not the whole law or the amendment to Article 4. Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for that warning. My colleague Barbara Tavš spoke of this warning. And here's where I'm going to continue. That's the main one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u84	That's what she was talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Yeah. Let me tell you that our party has already taken part in the pre-election programme in order to shorten the term of office for six months. And to tell us that we are against this law or that we do not respect it is, of course, strange. But we don't have double morals. We say it as it is, while the proposer, in particular the first-signed, deals with dual morality. A colleague had already said what was going on just before the elections when, despite knowing that he was in violation of the legislation, he received compensation for his unemployment and, in fact, he was receiving EUR 95,000 in current accounts. But let's go even further back when the first secretary of state and the minister of public administration was signed, I know this firsthand because I was working with him on an official basis at the time, he was drafting a bill on the pay system, a new pay system. He explained this to his associates throughout the public administration and explained it not only for his salary but also for additional fees. During that time, he was also a fifth-time professor at the university, but in his time of work he accepted students at the Ministry. You know, that's why I'm saying it's a double morality. If I do something different, then I don't suggest things like this. And what was the result of all these practices? The creation of two ethical codes; the code of public servants — look at it — and the ethical code of government that Dr. Virant was in. It is those governments that we will not forget the offices in which the Taiwanese transactions concerning Mercator and Patrio were concluded. I mean, that's really ethical! If I were to continue with why we're all so angry together. Because this law does not regulate the total prudent savings of all officials. I think that we should adopt a law on officials today, not just on Members, because, colleagues and colleagues, we have already reduced our salary twice in the last four years. We have limited our official travel to almost half, and then in the National Assembly there has been a halt in the employment of new employees, not even those who are retiring, but we have a government that works quietly in its cabinets, goes on business trips across Europe, say to Brussels – when I go, I meet them regularly – and rides in the business class of planes where tickets are twice as expensive as where we are travelling — in the economic class — and so on and so on. I'm not talking about working cars that we only get exceptionally and so forth. It's a double morale! Members of Positive Slovenia are talking about this dual morality. You know, and this has inspired me with a lot of cynicism to such laws and, I'm sorry, despite the good weather, as the motioner said.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Dear Members and Members! Here and there, there would have to be no debate and here and there should be a lot of agreement earlier so that our position, in order to be a profession, as someone has said, a Member can be respected, we will have to do something on our own. Every single one of us. Every day, every day, every day, every day, every show. It would be good for the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the President of the National Assembly to try to reach an agreement earlier and not to be so strong as to overtake another one because of their law or yours. This amendment is trying to do something for those who didn't work in this relationship during this period, and it's trying to undo what we did to them and what they didn't know was going to happen. If we are to decide on a post for our own benefit, if we are to decide on a post, then we need to know what lies ahead, we need to know that we can have one year's compensation. A few Members, who were distinguished men or women, are now unemployed, unemployed and will not be given a job. Of course, in a way, forgive me, because workers are also unemployed and public servants. It is not right, however, that when they decided to do this parliamentary work and profession – I don’t think it’s even a profession, that it’s a job, that it can be something else, but it can — at the time they thought it would be completely different. [[...]] From this point of view, it is necessary for Members here and there to make a conscientious decision, not as our party says, whatever this party is, that we should respect each other so as not to talk about conspiracy theory, so that we don't talk about inn discussions. Restaurant discussions are excellent, even dear to me when you are in a friendly society and you discuss them without sin, but it is not right that such debates are in a space that is the highest in law. When we talk about the character of the Member, then I can tell you that I have no bad feeling at all. I am proud to be a Member, and wherever I come from, everyone knows and believes that it will be so. My views are, of course, linked to what I think is right for people. Therefore, we should be careful when we take our steps when it comes to reducing unnecessary things for mothers and children. However, it is right that we all contribute to stabilisation, and from this point of view it seems right for me to support our intention, but it would be good, once again, ladies and gentlemen, to have some debate here in Parliament when people are looking at us because they are quoting us because they are telling us not to debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Your Honor! Today we are discussing the Law on Members, which I am of course in favour of the amendment. We are talking about us, the present, the past and future Members. What, though, is the Law on Members other than a mirror about our work and the effort we are making for our citizens?Oh, my God! As an opposition Member, I do not see the need to discuss our parliamentary group or the content of the law, as you will vote on it anyway. We do not make any decisions, but it is true that we must urgently discuss your coalition, a respected family of SDS. Who or what is the Member? This is the person elected to the democratic elections by the majority of the votes in the electoral unit. There are several thousand votes behind each of you, and the constitution requires us to vote in accordance with our own conscience. In Positive Slovenia, we always vote in our conscience, without dictatorship and instructions, and I think that is how all of you should vote, but not always. I have to admit that at first I really didn't believe that anyone could play the system and set up a client to win the elections. Now I must admit that Virant's client does not exist at all. The leader of the Virant Party Group is Mr. Tanko, who, by gesture, gives instructions to Virant's Members and Members on how to vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u90	I warned you earlier that we are talking about the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Dear Members! [[...]] In the debates, you express your will and your desire for a good job, but when the moment comes, I have never seen you vote differently, as Mr Tanko shows – I am talking about amendments. You are all extended by the SDS, and this is what people have recognized that you are afraid to vote on your will. On TV Slovenia you can see Mr Tanko standing in the statements behind Mr Virant so that he would not accidentally make any mistakes. People see it, so they say that Mr Tanko received the nickname of the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the National List, because the National List has no content and nothing that would distinguish you from the SDS, except that you have taken many votes from people who have blindly trusted your President that you will never get again. It's not the case that we're discussing you and not us today. Ask yourself what you will do in two years after the early elections, because people wanted you removed after three months, which is about to happen in one year. I would also like to remind the president of the National Gazette or the National Assembly, which is considered the highest moralist in the country, of his statement: "I will be first among the same, President of all Members and Members." If I recall correctly, he claimed that this function was temporary and that after six months he would resign from the presidency of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Pavlič, you have now spoken about everything else, but not about the amendment to Article 4. I warn all the other discussers that they are talking about the amendment to Article 4 of the Act under consideration. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Braniselle?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u93	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Here you are, because you have been appointed as Head of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u95	The Head of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette was mentioned. I'm the head of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code in the National Assembly right now and so far. That's not Mr. Tanko. As long as I am the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Service List, I will also carry out this function. Anyone who knows me personally, in person, then knows I do. I do not agree with such insinuations, and I would like to call for a little attention to these accusations, to this level of debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspard Music is next in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Dear Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! With all due respect to this high assembly, I will first say that I support our amendment, of course, because at least it saves something that this law literally takes. I cannot and will not support the bill on Members. Because I appreciate it. Because I can't stand double morals. Because I will not take advantage of the exploitation of rights, as have those who, after the expiry of the mandate, speak one another, work third, and today teach us honesty and justice. Because I am a Member 24 hours a day, and because I work 24 hours a day, because my Member's net salary for the month of May is no less than 2 000 566,95 euros. Because they only have lower wages in Hungary. Because I did not come to Parliament because of the salary I understand as compensation for covering material costs. Because I respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution of the guaranteed rights of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As this law only diminishes the reputation of Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to conclude by simply pointing out the challenge of Mr Matthew Tonin because he spoke and somehow challenged on the stage; however, Mr Tonin does not have to do this anymore. The metaphor that I used as a comparison and my assessment of the ability between the President of Positive Slovenia and the President of the Government in view of the measures taken to solve the crisis, which in practice appear increasingly unthinkable and inappropriate, has been the one that touched you, ripped out of the context and distorted my message, which is just proof that the truth hurts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, it was not a debate on Article 4 and the amendment, but an explanation of vote. We could save this for when we vote on the law. It's mag. Ivan Vogrin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Mr President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! "High and highest positions in the exercise of the State require persons with the highest personal integrity and great personal strength and independence from the pressures of various unacceptable material and spiritual centres of power. Freedom of spirit is needed, which, in its opinion, is capable of raising itself above the fragmentation of individual interests, which on the one hand requires great experience and insight, which is necessarily accompanied by the necessary modesty. In this judgment, there must certainly not be a tendency to pursue its own material benefits, nor shall it be after personal exercise and immaculateness and the pursuit of its own glory..." This is a quote from Dr. Francet Bucar's book The Foundation of Slovenian Statehood. Why did I read it? Because I support the solutions of the law, the way and the reasons why it happened, but not. In fact, it is difficult to understand that we are interfering with the rights of our recent or past fellow Members and Members. All housing organisations, however, have a degree of respect for their housing colleagues and do not force them to do so without the necessary consensus of rights. The objectives and principles of the law also contain the principle of economics. If we really had a sincere intention, if the applicant had the sincere intention of economicising the country, the National Assembly, which presides over it, would certainly start with a change in the constitution in part of the fiscal rule by also discussing the reduction of the number of members of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has 45 Members per million inhabitants, while the Germans have 7.6 and the Italian 10. So we, as a country, are severely pre-sealed. Furthermore, I think it really would be necessary to capture all the officials. Why are the different segments before marriage uneven? And, of course, because the reasons are not right for the proposal of the law, the approximate consequences will be similar to those of the public sector wage law. Catastrophe! Two billion 400 thousand euros minus. There's not going to be a minus in the money here, but there's going to be a minus in the other accounts. In fact, we must all be in the same position in the country and the reasons why something is proposed must be honest, not indifferent, in the name of glory, after pleasing to no one — this certainly is not the right way! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Dear President! With regard to the amendment itself, which was tabled by Positive Slovenia, I can say that Positive Slovenia is not burdened with the past in this Parliament. That is why we can speak even more sovereignly and honestly about the fact that it is right that the rights acquired for the return are not being retroactively abolished and that is at the heart of the problem of this law. Speaking of which, when we talked with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, we coordinated this law all the time, I'll say, we had a bunch of certain systemic issues. I must say that at the beginning there was a very interesting atmosphere in the very discussion of how to resolve a particular systemic issue and problems within this law. However, all the time it is repeated here in the debate and lately before the debate itself, I can only say one thing: we have not been harmonised, and no proposal by Positive Slovenia has gone through, for which many within the coalition and others can either praise or say that this is the case. What worries me most about the whole thing is that today, most Members and Members of Parliament are actually having their teeth squeezed and everyone outside is going to play this solidarity with someone I don't know. Look, you can't be solidarity with anyone in this country until you've got that kind of salary and that kind of effect that all other citizens have. I am talking about those who have the lowest income and those who have the smallest and worst social rights. I'm afraid this has come to its end in the last six months. Until the edge when we spice it up with this law on Members, where we want to tell how we join someone. Look, the reputation of Members in fact – without offense, today we have heard quite a bit about this – we will not deal with this kind of amendment. Far from it! But we will do so by our manner of conduct and by our speech. Unfortunately, the media only repeats the words spoken here in this room. Today I have heard quite a few interesting words about conspiracy theories that these bastards are Members of Parliament, who will always regulate their own rights, that we have a reputation I apologize, but this does not come from the mouth of the citizens! [[...]] This comes from the mouth of Members who are also citizens. That's an essential difference! So it would be a time to think about it. Today we have nothing but a circular mirror that we keep looking at. The positive Slovenia believes that this law, if we do not adopt this amendment, is unconstitutional and very unconstitutional. I am concerned that in the temple of democracy, where all Members of Parliament all the time rely on the rule of law, the rules of procedure, the law, the constitution, that is what we are really doing. The best thing I'm afraid and terrified of is that we're even doing this knowingly and saying that we're going to accept what the Constitutional Court is about to decide whether it's really unconstitutional or not. That's worrisome! Therefore, one such benign attempt appeals to all those before you support, despite the coalition agreement, despite party membership, to consider first what you are doing. I am also sad that some who do not support this will still support the anti-constitutional law. I'm sad that I just can't realize it. If we had read this amendment very carefully, we could have accepted this amendment, given an opportunity to what we agreed on and more or less we are all united, which is that in these six months we simply reach this common agreement, which is to shorten the mandate. We believe that under the same line, all political options could be acceptable or for all parliamentary groups. But everything else, which was an upgrade to this, from distinguishing Members, is totally unacceptable and here we show our double face. That is why I support, strongly support, that we will be met by reason and reason, not by humility, deception and double morality. I find increasingly and more that the National Assembly is a common schizophrenic story that is not over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. You were talking about the amendment, okay. Mrs. Masha Kociper, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Dear President, thank you for your word! Unfortunately, we often do not have the opportunity to talk about the content of the law to the opposition in the National Assembly, since laws are generally adopted in short and urgent procedures, which prevents us from discussing the content of the law, so forgive us if, in the debate on the amendments, we sometimes rely on a broader field of law. But I'm gonna try to stick to the amendment. Many colleagues before me spoke of the unconstitutionality, retroactivity and so on the provision on which this amendment was tabled. Allow me a brief thought on this subject. What my colleague Möderndorfer pointed out is one of the major problems of this National Assembly: the practice has been established to adopt laws that already have solutions in the original text, which are very likely to be constitutionally controversial. This has happened under the Government Act, this has happened under a savings law, and this is also the law. The definition of a coalition that the Constitutional Court is the one that decides what is unconstitutional, let it decide, is wrong and is frightening. We are a legislative body, and we must work legally and in accordance with the Constitution. In exceptional cases, only one small group must judge that maybe the law that we adopted in the best of faith was illegal, unconstitutional, and that would trigger it in the Constitutional Court. It is not easy to initiate a judgment of unconstitutionality, this requires a very large amount of specialized legal knowledge that people who are affected do not have. People have to pay lawyers and this constitutional law specialist to write them an opinion, and for a long time wait for the Constitutional Court's judgment to come, and then maybe it's shown what's true and what's not true. Therefore, this practice is controversial when anti-constitutionality is allowed in advance, with arguments saying otherwise. And we're going to argue that you won't say I'm speaking. As the President of the National Assembly, the Doctor of Law and also the Legal and Legislative Service, said, the Constitutional Court in its assessment of proportionality. Perform the so-called proportionality test. In doing so, it notes whether the solution has arguments which are constitutionally relevant and whether the secured goods are not so insignificant that they are not affected by the intervention; it is said that the intervention must not be more important than the secured goods. In doing so, the Constitutional Court shall, in particular, decide on the predictability and transitionality of the arrangements. I don't think you need to be, I don't know, an expert on the law to see that these things aren't given in this solution. The constitutional relevant arguments, the savings, are not. We can think of anything about these Members who have received compensation, but this intervention for saving is not a constitutionally relevant and protective argument. The good of saving is also not a good thing that could interfere with human rights and the right to the rule of law and the protection of rights acquired through past acts. I also think it is clear that there is no predictability and no transition in this provision. They did not know that this would shorten them and that the law did not allow them a transitional period in order to be adequately prepared for this intervention. This means that by implementing this law they will suddenly lose their income, which they could not expect and could not prepare for. They may lose their income to pay their bills, their bills, to maintain their family. However we imagine saving, whatever we think of the work of Members, this does not hold up in the rule of law. These are things that violate the reputation of the National Assembly and the reputation of Members, which we adopt by means of short and urgent procedures, laws that cannot be discussed in content. Therefore forgive us if we, Members of the opposition, are offended that we are never heard, and if we are offended by the fact that someone says that this law will restore the reputation and credibility of Members. As my colleagues have warned me, the reputation and credibility of Members are built every day and based on good work, preparation for meetings, study materials, good, quality debates, good, quality laws that are thoughtful and that are for the good of people. If there were such laws, if people had the feeling that we were working for their own good, even compensation would not be a problem. So I agree with those who say that in this situation there is 80% too, 6 months too; my colleague Tonin said, "They will tell us to pay us that we can be Members." So, problems are different. The problems are in good work and good legislation, and this needs to be changed. That is why we would also like to have an opportunity and time in this law to have a substantive debate where the principles of this problem and where we would also solve problems in terms of the status of Members, because we also need to ask ourselves who else will decide on this profession. Do we really want this to become a profession that will be attractive only to those who do not receive comparable employment, comparable to their work? Or we want Members, experts, experienced people from different fields, with experience in their work so far, which will contribute qualitatively to their mission, to the work of a Member, and which will also be properly paid for. If these rights of Members are to be reduced, such as this process over the past 20 years, we need to know that we will get Members who will eventually be grateful that Members can, because they will not have to do any better in life and will be blindly obedient to their political party. Because only a political party and their obedience will depend on their employment and their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Your Honor, hello! Of course, I'm going to support this amendment for a reason, because we can't fix the laws back. I don't know what would happen if we did this in all areas. I think it is very unrealistic and, in fact, childish thinking that this action will today create the reputation of this National Assembly. First of all, we'll see if the Prime Minister of the Government comes to our invitation to the National Assembly. If so, then he also gives us some validity in our work – I am talking about the last two points today. I'm sorry when we keep reading each other and talking about privileges. People at home wonder if you have your own chauffeur, you have a free apartment. Damn it! I pay rent, like everyone else, I pay amortization, and I have to clap it in the end, and so on. I'm getting 67 Euros today. Share my hours with my wages and yours with yours, and you will see how valuable your watch is. The plumber gets more! And we're talking about privileges! Five SD Members, as far as I know, get one copy of the newspaper on our floor! That is what people need to be told because they think differently about how we live: we are rich people, we steal, we do nothing, we sit here and we talk. I fully agree with my colleague Tonin, his introduction. Look, we Social Democrats didn't cut the maternity allowance, and I have a clear conscience. I agree, we save, I also agree with the rights to move forward. But don't talk to me about some crazy privileges, because then I'm ashamed to walk on New Gore. As principal, I had a higher salary! Okay?Oh, my God! So let's look at the train rides, and the wages, and the health department's homes. We're zero, zero. Let us settle in the entire area, as has been said, some rights and duties and privileges and then see who is rich and who is not! As I support this law, this proposal for a law, I still don't know on my own. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. That's why I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the amendment because it corrects the unconstitutionality because it eliminates the anomaly of the functional supplement. The law acts retroactively, as has already been said today. The law was based on a proposal from the President due to the poor conscience of the proposer. There has already been a lot of talk about this today, but I do not want to talk about it, but I would like to say that what colleague Maša said to be repeated many times and that the media will sum it up: we will not regulate our reputation as a Member with height and not with the height of personal income, but with the actions that we Members did before when we were workers, wherever we were, and now that we are doing our work. As a colleague before me, I don’t feel zero because I’m going to be less money. But I can say that I was in my 32-year work practice, which is, as a worker, 20 years of President of the Sports Association, and never once did I write a kilometer. For the past five years as principal, I have given up mileage, daily allowance, and once I have not paid any hours to replace it! All this was about being able to have a free school. This is the reputation of the worker, this is the reputation of the Member, in this way we can build our confidence and not least the reputation of the people. If with the image, Mr President, the President of the National Assembly, if you are not satisfied with the picture in the mirror, do not change the mirror, but work to be satisfied with the image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only respond to retrograde in this law. I think that's going to encourage a lot of other ministers around here, it looks like you're driving a one-way street today, and then they change the signs, and they're all the ones who've been punished before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you. You are probably in the eyes of people, those who support this amendment will not really improve their reputation; perhaps because we will say that if one of the interested parties makes an application to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court finds that such retroactivity is not justified, then the consequences for public finances will be worse than that. It is true, however, that the consequences may be hung on the shoulders of another government. I cannot say that in the past there were not many such things concerning the salaries of Members or the payment of refunds that would not disturb me, especially when they came for a short period of time to Parliament and even received compensation or perhaps ministers who did not even work for a full year, to pay for two years and then to set up private universities, the faculty's pardon. A lot has happened in the past, and the fact that the Social Democrats have proposed a reduction in the salaries of Members has been mentioned or accepted as social demagogies. Therefore, I will not give a valuable judgment on how I see this proposal. However, it would be good if the proposal were coordinated between the opposition and the coalition and if, on behalf of the reputation of the National Assembly and the Members, they also heard that the presidency of the National Assembly is the responsibility of whoever performs it, but that the President cannot afford to perform any other work during his term of office, even if it is a fifth and if it can be carried out. The function is a function, it is another person's function in the country and from this I also derive all the consequences that they are; even if this is a university teacher in communication with his students, this is a special situation. You can't think of it because you're a full-time official. As for another matter, however, I would warn — and this goes beyond the amendment. The additional or supplementary explanation reiterated the information that the State contribution to the pension and health allowance for religious servants would be reduced by 20%. I did have an account number five, but I checked two to see if I miscalculated it from 60 to 48% 12%. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I've checked what you've written in your explanation! The numbers and how much these numbers hold – one is in the balance and the other is in the balance – I have already discussed in the National Assembly, many times the figures do not go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The amendment, which, I believe, really intervenes in the back, but it is not so drastic – sorry, about the article and the amendment, I apologize and thank you for the correction. You could have told me then. I don't think it's that drastic, because all of these Members have been getting their compensation for quite some time, they're getting their full compensation, and it's not going to stop right now. Anyone who can't live has another function, can go to the Employment Institute and have rights from working relationships after that, too, it has to be said. As far as the reputation of Members is concerned, I have no problem here. I come from a profession that is highly unreputable, so I'm really not embarrassed to walk the world. Another thing about the regression. I too received it today — for the first time in my life, and I have 28 years of work. It's not a big deal, but if a person isn't used to something, he'll cheer up. And there is something else, all those who say or do so – because I don't know what will happen to me in a few months when I'm no longer an MP, in fact, because I'm a surrogate, alternate Member, but just in case I try to go back to the barn every day, and in that barn where there's cattle, so that I don't forget what color the cow is, and also that it won't be hard for me to get back to that job later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I agree that today we are discussing an extremely important issue for the future of democracy in this country. Since the French Revolution, it has been assumed that Members elected by the people must be economically independent because they are otherwise under pressure of blackmail. This is particularly true in times of crisis. Then the pressure to enforce the rule of the same stomachs is even more present. I'm personalizing, and I've never fought or looked at my salary in 16 years, but I took it as it is. I agree with this, as some say, that we are examples. Although we will not improve our reputation by doing so, I am firmly convinced that the Slovenian public is directed against Members, and that is what we can say. I've been around the world a lot in 16 years, and I've been comparing myself with Members of Parliament. And it is true that Slovenian Members in their own society are less valuable to other countries, other companies, and that Macedonians are better paid and more valuable. But it's not about our wages. It's about the former MPs. I have followed them several times, and the most honest and consistent are the most difficult to get a job. But I don't know any Member who doesn't want to go to work that I don't want to do. I haven't known him in all five tours since I've been watching this on the spot. All the parties in Slovenia are, unfortunately, machetes to former Members, including mine. I must say that, in principle, I cannot agree that what has been signed can be taken into account for us, but not for the former, because I think this is the sunset servanda, the contract has to be respected and the decision is a contract. Today, a former principal said he had a better job. Yesterday, the principals' salaries were published. I think they deserve that kind of pay, but they're actually comparable to Members of Parliament. The Member is probably going through more stress than the average director, that's what I hope to say. I also say that I recently made a calculation for the transition to retirement and what the pension will be, which makes the institution. I was calculated on the basis of today's conditions that I had a higher salary as a state-owned company as a technical manager 17 years ago, and I was always the chairman of the committee, and I always had a working allowance, and the company was 100% state-owned. That's why we should do something. However, I am not optimistic that we could do this in the Slovenian public, because Members, especially former Members, are the most persecuted savages in this country. The Member of my delegation, who has been a Member of the Parliament for three years, the leader of the Group of Members, has no job and is breaking through in a shameful way. We don't get a refund anymore. But there are other cases that I think we need to follow in comparable countries where democracy is flourishing. If we put out democracy [[...]] That is why I cannot oppose the amendment concerning former Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First of all, let me say that these provisions of the amended law are practically in no way touching me. I'm just one of those, I don't know what to say, lucky people or anything that, after the term of office, meets the conditions for retirement. But today it's about supporting this amendment that was just being discussed. I must say that this is one of the few discussions I agree with Mr Jerovsk. In fact, I think we must have self-respect for our function. If we do not have self - respect, we cannot expect to be respected by others. Nor will people respect us for anything else, even if we bring our wages to the limit. I think that this proposed amendment is somehow trying to bring this back, but it also restores confidence in the rule of law. In fact, I have to say that it looks like, in fact, if I look at the content again, I have no doubts about the content of the law. [[...]] However, I have doubts about the constitutional judgment or I believe that the seeds of unconstitutionality are laid down in the genetic makeup of the change of law itself. In recent times in this House, it has been happening that we simply accept something in stock, laws and then say that the Constitutional Court will already decide whether they are in accordance with the law or not. In this way we do not play our legislative role, but now we do not deserve the kind of salary we get if we let it go. Actually, we're in some kind of contradiction here. On the other hand, it is, for example, for members of the coalition, that what is signed and written in the coalition treaties is above the Constitution and above the law. And there's no distance, not even for a millimeter. I still think that the Constitution and legislation are above any treaty, and even in this case this applies. Therefore, after this discussion, which was before me, I am sure that this amendment will be accepted. In this case, we too will consider our position on the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! At this point, of course, it would be the nicest thing to do, take it there, take it away, and so on. Then some people would clap. But this does not enhance the reputation of politics, not of government, nor of the National Assembly. Anyway, part of the government is from here, most of the government is from here. If I were to be asked, ministers could only be those elected from people and from Parliament — for the first time. And secondly, there's more to be done here. I don't think it's necessary for an alternate Member to be covered like this. As the colleague had previously said, in this way a reduction, in narrations, including numbers, could make both the national assembly and the government a better quality. Well, if we look at other European countries, some have it that way, I think it is in England. But what's the problem? The problem is that – but I'm 16 years here, I have a fifth term, I didn't get it, I was elected. Obviously because I probably didn't talk to people and do things differently, not in a different position. I have always worked — in any position, position or opposition — just as I have represented positions and spoken. We do not know how to listen, and many times the opposition is opposed only because – of course, I have been in opposition more than in the coalition – that the opposition was opposed only because the opposition proposed something, even if it was good. And so it was. Admit to your colleagues when you were Masha Kociper, wait because you've only been here three days in Parliament and I've been 16 years! [[...]] And listen. And so it was. Every time we proposed when it was even agreed that we would support the regions, which would be good for this country – it did not happen. When we warned the opposition about the country's indebtedness, nothing happened, it continued. When we drew attention to the non-use of European funds, today we are at 35%, but the time is running out, 2007-2013. When we were talking about the municipalities when we were talking about the mayors, what was wrong?Oh, my God! [[...]] There were times when 60, 70% of the Members who were or were mayors sat in these benches. Well, we didn't know how to listen. We don't know how to listen. In this case, because I am talking about this amendment, I will not be criticized for not talking about the amendment; of course I will talk about the amendment. I think the amendment is in the right place, that it's right to be who it is. That this violates a right that is acquired. But at the same time, my citizens and citizens have the right to pay, and to those wages for the work they've done, they don't get it, and they're broken. What have we done in this area? They have the right to a paid pension and invalidity insurance, but they have not paid it, and they have not been paid by state-owned companies, and at the same time some ladies, tycoons, magpies, from these state-owned companies have not drawn any rewards. Kramar, I don't know what it was, a million euros, say, from NLB, etc. Last night's verdict on "The Big Guy." My stomach's turning. People lost their hard-earned, hard-earned money, their loans, etc., and today – what? None of that! Some of them – I was also such a calf that I took credit, bought shares of the Maribor Credit Bank for 28 euros, worth 2 euros today. And Mr. Kovacic is leaving with a prize. This is the problem, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! We do not know how to listen and never stand together as the National Assembly, as Members and Members, but not as the position and opposition. It's not true it's a coalition treaty over the constitution. That's not true. It is true, however, that this is the basis of an agreement that we stick to within the coalition - and it is right to stick to it - but sometimes we can listen to each other and more of it should be at the level of all political parties in Parliament. Then he creaked up such ones as this article, among other things, would not be. President of the National Assembly, I ask you if this amendment is not adopted, if this goes to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will therefore cancel – with what responsibility, what will you do then? Will you send someone who advised you to make such a law? Will you give someone a book so they don't have anything else to look for here? That's the joke! Comrade Chehovin said earlier that he rarely agrees with the debate by Jožet Jerovšek, but this time he can. It's wrong! Many times he has had smart, many times he has good suggestions and it would be right, because if we disagree on some political issues so, it would be right. [[...]] You know, we're members of the commission of inquiry - Alenka Jeraj paid, she was punished, I was convicted because I led the Commission of Investigation of damage to social property, paid, conditionally convicted, because I told those who were convicted. Convicted! And nothing happened! There is a problem in this, colleagues and colleagues, and that is why the Slovenian public considers us to be so incompetent, to be corrupt, and I don't know what. I didn't! 16 years in politics and I'm not corrupt! I didn't put 1 euro in my pocket. I'd rather die than do something like that! In short, that's the problem. And then, of course, the Law on Members and some compensations, and so on, we go oh and so on, and I don't even know what it is. To report to the coalition now that something is working quickly and so on. Mea maxima culpa – tell me! 61% of the laws in the last 3 years have been passed in a fast and short-term manner. The situation is difficult, we know, we know. So let's do something, I'll say, for the people who voted us, it'll be better. Hour paid – 14 days ago I had a car on the service – 35 euro service hours. I said, "Wow, Maria. That's so sweet!" "Yes, no, you know, Mr Puksic, we have a price of 39 euros. We gave you a discount!" "Why would you give me a discount? Because I'm a Member or something?" That's not true. That was just an excuse. That's how much a repairman's watch costs. Well, ours isn't, of course, ours is under 10 euros, but it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Is Important [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Comrade Pukšič, what is your opinion on the amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Mr Vice President, I don't know how to define myself or I know that this is likely to fall and say something. I won't support the amendment. I don't mean to support him. I'm not voting against him. Either I support him or I'll hold out. This is my position on this amendment. I'll make up my mind. But there's only one thing I'd like to say about the law, article 38. Why don't we invest, which says, "80% of the salary he was getting." You know, the functions that we have, because that's all I can talk about, because I'm the chairman of the Commission in this mandate, I wasn't two before. But, you know, once this is over, you don't do this job anymore. The sum, the line, let's add it up to those who receive the compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sasha Kos has the floor. Please. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry I didn't notice you, Mrs. Masha Kociper. It's a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u123	I would only respond to the debate of my colleague Pukšič. I was very pleased with his proposal that we come together several times and decide in a united manner. This is what we very much want in the opposition. We are frustrated because no one has accepted our proposal, nor when we ask that important issues such as school termination, TES, savings, maternity and so on be discussed. I thank Mr Puksic's proposal and appeal to all members of the coalition to support our amendment, which eliminates probably the unconstitutionality to show this unity and perhaps; I cannot speak for my colleagues; we must consult; we must also consider supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sasha Kos has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, chairman. My predecessors have said more or less. I am one of the new Members who came into this community, and in fact there is probably a large majority of the new faces. For I expected, as colleagues have already mentioned before me, and I agree, teamwork, community, cooperation, these are important categories. In fact, as we know, an individual cannot do what a whole, fake orchestra can do. It's like a conductor can't just conduct, but he needs a community that's just directing it. Well, and what I was going to say. I also find it extremely disturbing that, for example, we Members do not respect each other. Or rather, if you don't respect yourself, you can't respect others. This is very much for me; I would say, this Law on Members; I would remind Mr Virant that we must be respectful of our profession. This grading of our profession throughout society will be of no benefit to anyone, not at least to us. Because, despite the fact that we are people who now occupy these places where we are, we must try to prove to the nation that we are capable of working together, that we want to do something for Slovenia, for the good, not to play around here, who else, who less. Because, as we know, it can't be solved. Even in the past, the differences will be even greater. Parliament, however, is the body that has to act in a way that is wrong, not that we have to strain our muscles in front of people and not benefit anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I see there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm reopening the application. Check-in is on. Mrs. Kotnik Poropat, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u127	I always forget. I'm not used to it yet. I'm sorry. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I did not intend to come forward today, but after all this discussion, I think I should also be a lawyer with my opinion or position on this amendment to Article 4. I think that the amendment needs to be supported, for the reason that, indeed, in the National Assembly, laws that do not comply with the Constitution should not be adopted. Retroactivity, we know, is not supposed to be the term we would support, especially when it affects an individual's right. And here, by supporting this provision of Article 4, which is proposed, of course, we are interfering with the rights of Members of the previous term. To expect the Constitutional Court to annul, perhaps if anyone complains or demands constitutional review, I do not think it is an honor, but that we, as guardians of legality, like those who adopt laws, must be aware of the laws we adopt and try to ensure that these laws are in accordance with the Constitution. I would like to say another sentence, namely that I cannot agree with the statements made by individuals when, in cases where they are warned that a person has been established or a law is unconstitutional, they then invoke that the Constitutional Court will already decide whether he is unconstitutional or in accordance with the Constitution. I think Mrs Masha Kociper has said nicely today, I would not repeat and take up your time, but the real problem is mainly for those citizens and citizens who are laymen in law and who do not find themselves and, of course, cannot always exercise their rights. In short, I think that this amendment to Article 4 should be supported if we are to work legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u128	Dr. Gregor Virant on behalf of the motioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u129	Good. I will not respond to that lower issue because I expected to play the role of pre-Parliamentary for this law today, but to this legal part absolutely, and also to how the coordination process was carried out. As regards this transitional decision. None of us know whether she's constitutional or not. The infringement of the rights acquired, i.e. the change of a legal regime in itself, is not contrary to the Constitution. This is what the Constitutional Court has said many times and has said. After all, we have recently had this on the table of the Public Finance Balance Act, which, in a lot of rights, has changed a lot of things. This isn't the first time and not the last time. And just when it comes to parliamentary rights, to stop and give it that way, I think it's an exaggeration. So, once again, it is not retroactivity, retroactivity means when you take a right back, but it is an intervention in expectations or an intervention in rights acquired, where the Constitutional Court, in the event that such a provision is attacked, weighs the weight of the interference on the one hand and on the other hand the interest pursued by it. And in this particular case, I think we have strong reasons for doing so by doing things with parliamentary privileges or rights similar to what we have done in many other cases, that this is a strong enough argument to weigh this down. After all, the rights of civil servants have been reduced. Look, we've already seen our rights go down, so we're already down 8% of the wages in the public sector. This is also an intervention in the rights acquired. And the same debate could be opened every time. You have to be very careful about that. Do not think that an intervention to change a right in itself is unconstitutional because it is not. Many decisions of the Constitutional Court speak of this. It is vehement to say that this provision, this transitional provision, is unconstitutional, will not hold. The Constitutional Court will weigh this, each of us can carry out this weighting with us, I firmly believe it is not unconstitutional, you think it is unconstitutional. We just don't know until the Constitutional Court decides. And it is not true that, as the proponents, we say, because it does not matter if it is unconstitutional, because no one will complain, will file a constitutional dispute or we will have to wait for the Constitutional Court to decide anyway. No, no, no. We don't think he's in violation of the Constitution. I hope that this idyllic relationship between Mr Puksic and the opposition will exceed the debate on parliamentary rights so that there will be other topics, because I strongly support this. I am very much in favour of agreeing as many times as possible in the National Assembly and unanimously or in concert to support solutions. And that's how we did this marriage. This marriage, too. I have repeatedly convened all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, took a lot of time, sat Mr Tanko, Möderndorfer, Weber, Tonin, Jurša or their deputies. First, we put the first draft on the table, and then I said, let's deal with the Ferplai in a way that doesn't mean we're not going to pull each other to our end, because then we're not going anywhere. Everyone can just have their own concept about every thing. And if everyone were to advocate their concept unconsciously, of course nothing was adopted. That's always the way it is. And we said, let's move from the point to the point on the table – only the first draft was mine – and let's make sure that at each point we find the solution supported by the majority, we'll stick to it. That's how we went from point to point, and that's how it went. And so the SDS Group has cooperated properly, and it is only stuck in the transitional provision, so today we have an amendment. All right, right, they said their words, while the Positive Slovenia Group simply got up and left at some point and we stopped talking. That was how this coordination took place. That you won't think this is about some of my caprices or that I was trying to impose some content. We made a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Only a comment, coordination was also attended by Comrade Prevc. Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath. Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u131	The president simply mentioned the part where he mentioned my name. Like the one who participated in these negotiations, he mentioned a fact called Ferplai. Let me explain. Of course, Ferplay can mean something different with each eye. And Ferplai was the one, let's make a deal, we'll see where we come together and where we don't. And simply in Positive Slovenia, no proposal was adopted. And that's not Ferplai to me, that's Ferplai just for the president of the National Assembly. And that's how they understand talking and talking. And of course then again and again in all public performances he explains: "You know, we'll never get anywhere together, we'll never get to the same denominators, but you know, we've gone ferrels and we've gone to one point and then we have to cut somewhere, because if everyone insists on the end, we'll never end anything." However, the fact is that this Ferple did not exist, as only the proposals of the coalition were taken into account. And that's the problem. So, where is this Ferplai now?? I'm gonna say it, I don't like that Ferple! The president of the National Assembly, put him away, say, "The coalition – power – the fact is that we need to implement this," and we will have at least, I will say, a clear and clear picture and we will know what we are talking about. Hiding behind a mirror and some honesty is, of course, far from it. I understand that in democracy, rivalry, discourse, different opinions, all of this exists, and it's nothing wrong. That's what we've been trying to have, and we've had for the last 21 years, but it's been a little different from the facts, and that's another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I speak as a Member, who has also been a former Member. He was so old, he didn't even have a party in the National Assembly. But it's okay. We'll all be ex- MPs one day. We need to think about this today. But I have great experience being a former Member, and these are such that I will not afford them to any of you. And this time I do speak from the heart. With regard to the amendment itself, I believe that colleagues from Positive Slovenia have put a lot of effort into drafting the amendment and its explanation, which requires every amendment. I respect that. But I don't think it's necessary. You know why? I've got experience again. When I was a former Member, of course, I received a replacement, and once a decision came, I think it was signed by our colleague Kumra, who was then chairman of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I speak from memory, and this has been reduced. In some ways, it was also about reducing rights. So, look now, I think that just like the President and the proposer, first-signed, will say that this will be the case even if we do not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Court will not oppose this bill, which I strongly support. I support him, and I commend everyone who has worked here and worked hard and looked for solutions. If I recall correctly, even the first proposal of the coalition was withdrawn, then another was made. Of course, colleague Jani, normally, but in democracy, that's the way most people decide. Sometimes it's hard to accept, but it's democracy. As it is said, I support this law, because I want, frankly, to share fate with the citizens of this country, the fate of this current situation. As far as I'm concerned, it might be even better that, instead of drastically reducing our ratings, it might be better to write in the law that every Member and every Member of the monthly allowance give to a humanitarian organisation, say Karitas, the Red Cross, 20% of their salary. But it's just like a variant that's obviously out of the question right now. But when we share, colleagues and colleagues, the fate of our citizens and citizens, here I must warn you – and I am not protesting anything to understand – just to point out that Members who are more distant from Šubič 4 or from Ljubljana are more broad-minded and share more the fate of our citizens and citizens. In other words, pay and money really mean nothing to me, really nothing – that means that those of us who are more distant are financially beaten if I comply with the Law on Members, which we will adopt today, and the Law on Public Finance Balance. That's not good. This is not good that, right now, the MPs and colleagues from the second part of Slovenia would contribute significantly more – I can also show the calculations – to the resolution of our Slovenian crisis. This is not good and all these solutions are very Ljubljana-centric. That's not good! Even so, the country is too centralised and often forgets its periphery. I will not propose any changes in this direction, but only so much that we know exactly what we are talking about. So this right, for example, to have an apartment is more or less a burden, and let no one be disappointed, not even a country, if I return this apartment now. Because I have the freedom to set up my own family budget and go look for an apartment in my own directing. Allow me a few more words if I may speak on behalf of three other colleagues, my colleague Sam Bevk, Barbara Žgajnar Tavš and Franc Pukšič, who have tabled the amendment, otherwise it is not a business irregular thing to do, because otherwise it was not the way we wanted the Law on Members to record that Members of the current reference and former Members could join the Society of Members of the 90. These four and ourselves are the officials of this society, which today counts 265 members. By the way, I invite you to join this society. It was not possible to put this amendment in business correctly, but I am sure that we will mature, and we will write this down at the next amendment of the Law on Members. Perhaps someone will tell me why to give exclusivity in this law on Members of Parliament to the 90th Association. This is what all the great European Parliaments, including the European Parliament, have, because if we don't set up a society of left-wing Members tomorrow, the society of right-wing Members, then I don't know any, so it would be good and I'm sure that once we're in the Parliamentary Law we'll be able to write Members together, all of us, present and formerly, in the House of Members 90. There would be no material obstacles and no material obligations at this time. As it is said, and I conclude with this, I thank all those who have worked hard to harmonise this law on Members. I, as well as my two colleagues and my colleague, will support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u134	Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. It is unfortunate in this House that the Doctor of Law and the President of the National Assembly does not respect certain procedures. I'm really sorry, but sometimes -- and I'm going to do this sometimes -- when I sat alone in the National Assembly for 15 years, when the Law-Legal Service said that something was unconstitutional, illegal, the act didn't even go to the hearing, nor to the working body, let alone the spoils. And this new practice of putting everything at the decision of the Constitutional Court is unacceptable to me because it means that we can do what we want. Of course, swinging your hand and saying, we'll see what they're going to say, or even words, if anyone's going to sue, but we're going to hear a verdict, it's unacceptable. This reduces the quality and reputation of the National Assembly. In the 1980s, I was the head of a student organization, illegal, because then the communists wouldn't let them have a student organization. It was abolished in 1971. In 1990, I was elected to Parliament, where I sat for 15 years, until 2004, I participated, positively, in all the main decisions and in 2004 I was permanently politically unemployed for three years. I couldn't get a job because I was politically inappropriate in the Republic of Slovenia, and my existence was threatened. And when someone tells me, and that's what the President of the National Assembly, the sent-in privilege, uses, I wonder what that is. When I come home, what should I tell my children about the privilege of sending me to work at 8:00 a.m. and come home at 8:00 p.m. if I'm not on the job when I'm away all week, or when we don't vote at 1 a.m.? Or should I say it's a privilege to have a letter coming home that says, "idiot, jerk," on the other hand, "because you're a jerk, MP, you see what you've done, you hurt a child who's in a wheelchair." It's my privilege. Therefore, of course and because I know, like my colleagues who have already served here and know what happened to my colleague, what problems do you have to tell me, is Mr. Golobič employed in the Republic of Slovenia? [[...]] Ask yourself which company he can't go to his company. [[...]] It's sold. Is he employed? Can I go back to my firm? I can't. I can be s.p. You can go, of course, those who are professors, you can go, and without that, I mean, I don't want to underestimate, those who have a farm go to work on a farm. And we all carry a Jewish star like this, and we're unemployed. That is why I would ask you, regardless of what the solution will be for the future, but for those colleagues who have already served here not to be deprived of this right, at least the right to a one-year refund, such as has been granted them, and the one with which the contract has been concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u136	Dr. Virant asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u137	In this amendment, which is not meant to be the law – to be clear, it is not meant to be the law – in fact, the question of what is more right. Whether it is better to deprive those Members and ministers who are currently receiving compensation for a few months or not to deprive them. And given that we have resorted to a number of rights through measures to consolidate public finances, I think it would be absolutely wrong to stop here at this point. It just wouldn't be right, it wouldn't be fair. And I don't think it would be an honor to make this move. That's one thing. Second thing. This lowness that Mr Jakič spoke of, this letter, I always condemn lowliness from the bottom of my heart and these things disgust me. [[...]] However, I have also been very low in myself and negative energy and greed received today from the types of so-called Positive Slovenia. I must say, there have been a lot of negative energy on your part today. Read the tape behind you, and you'll see what you've been saying. Third thing. You know something when we talk about whether or not we're going to improve our reputation today. We guys would be if we agreed, agreed, agreed, put together a joint statement and had a ten-minute debate in the National Assembly and passed this law. That would be a message for the public, and that was my wish as well. Frankly, I really wanted to do this to make sure that the leaders of the parliamentary groups, together with the other Members, agree, find a solution, say, we stepped together once, ten minutes, item of the agenda, say our own, or roughly the same, and accept. In that case, we'd be dudes. And the message that would go out of this house would be great, it would be great. And people would look at it and say, look at it, but they were really able to take a step forward, they were able, and in the matter that is most sensitive to them, to step together and reliably rate this house, these institutions would grow. Of course, just like it was today, it won't. That's pretty clear. But like I said, it's gonna be a nice weekend for me, a project that I've already set up as a minister, and then I didn't make it, and this time it's gonna work. I'm grateful to all of you who've been involved. But you will see for yourself, won't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u138	The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Since time is short, I can tell you that old mistakes are being solved with demagogism. I will understand the post earlier, now and again as honorable for laws that need not be taken away, but give to us and to the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Since the available time is not yet up, does anyone else want to discuss it? I see that there is still a desire to discuss, and then I am opening a re-appeal to the debate. The application shall be made. Three debaters were reported, and one time ran out, so Dr. Gregor Virant has the first word. Derogation from the debate. Mr. Jože Tanko is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that in addressing this amendment and the law, I am quite negatively surprised at the level of the debate. I think that the proponent of such a negative attack, not from "negative" or from "positive" did not earn, at least from "positive". The Law on Members sets out the rights and obligations of Members, a number of Members, including our kind, colleagues from Positive Slovenia, do not carry out their duties, do not perform them at the time of the meetings of the National Assembly, then many of you do other things, volunteering, fifthly or otherwise, and you have not highlighted this in any way. Such a level of debate seems underestimating and unworthy to me in the National Assembly. Unworthy! Because we don't look at problems that are the same way, and we don't measure them with the same vats. Many of our opinions have been and will be separate, will be different about the same thing, even based on the same numbers we will be able to draw different conclusions and conclusions. But if we want the level of discussion of the National Assembly to be suitable for the reputation of the National Assembly to increase the so-called rating, then we need to avoid these psychoanalytical approaches that you are using. This is the way some other professions work, but I think that does not belong to the work of the Members or to the treatment of our political ones, I will say, opponents, if they are not already co-workers. You know, we in the National Assembly, including in this mandate, have taken a number of decisions that have affected the rights acquired. After all, as you have already determined, after the term of office, we have reduced our salaries following the signing of the employment contract. This is, in my opinion, a worse intervention than an intervention in compensation after the expiry of the term of office. We have done this to others with the Public Sector Salaries Act, and we have already reduced wages by 4% twice in the last two years and so on, and there has been no particular panic, no specific accusation. If we want Members to be consistent, then we must also arrange for those things that are for a Member's salary, which are compensations after the end of the term of office, just as we have arranged for compensation for others in this mandate. In many cases, we have intervened with the Public Finance Balance Act in the amount of compensation and in the length of compensation. It is true that there may be a constitutional judgment, I think three things are in constitutional judgment, on all those forty laws that we have passed and all of them have intervened in the rights acquired, constitutional judgements have been made for three articles or three laws. I do not know how the Constitutional Court will decide, even in this case I do not hope to judge this, although I have quite some experience. But I think it is right that in our actions we are consistent, that if we hope to do this for a crowd of people, say the pensioners who are 450 thousand and the employees, and so on, those who receive the benefits, are such and different, then we will probably be able to do it for some 10, and I don't know if there are some 10 Members who have expired and who are receiving it. Let us be consistent in these matters and be proportionate in these matters. And all the big stories about how and what are useless to me. Our work is here to consider the proposals of laws, to prepare ourselves qualitatively, to do the work at the time envisaged for this, and to, if only possible, all other stories are somehow made up and forgotten. I will not personally support this amendment. I will not support him for the reasons I have stated. And I suggest that others consider it, because if we accept this amendment, then we will legitimize the privilege. This is a privilege that someone else has in a different way than all the crowds of people that we have regulated with the Public Finance Balance Act have their position to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u142	Dr. Virant applied as a proponent for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u143	I may just explain how we came to these eight months, why those who change this law at the time of receiving the refund are subject to 8 months and not 6 not 12, but 8. The original text was written in such a way that there would be no exception, it is said that even for those who now receive a refund, after 6 months this would be extinguished. Then they sent comments, not only by the opposition, but also by some coalition parliamentary groups, and we are the ones who defended this solution, saying that there is no exception to those who are proposing, we said, let's compromise, let's go somewhere between 6 and 12 months, and I threw this proposal at table 8, I hoped that I would convince Mr Weber with this and get "for" for the content of the law in full. But the SD Group disagreed. No problem, this is where we broke up, about the rest of the stuff we got caught up with. So much to explain. And it doesn't matter to the constitutional judgment, or when you reach out to some acquired right, you treat those who already have it a little differently than those who are about to receive it in the future. This is very relevant to the Constitutional Court, and you'll see if this law is attacked, I'd bet it won't fall. I'm not saying with certainty, I can't, because I don't see into the heads of constitutional judges, but as far as I know constitutional law, and something I can say with great probability that it won't fall. It was huge today that I even listened to my history here, and as I said, I could almost quote my colleague Borut Pahor, who said, "Sometimes one has to act like a pre-starter to make some kind of thing work." [[...]] Today I was this rug, this pretzel, you were happily wiping your feet with me, there's no problem at all. But if you've already gone into this history, you might even find out that a marriage with a very similar content, almost identical content, had already been proposed once, when I was the Minister of Public Administration. And my greatest sin that I have seen today was that I used the law in force to exercise the right that belonged to me under the law in force. If this is my greatest sin that you've searched for me all this time, then the heavens are assured to me. You know, my sin is that I used some marriage, and now I want to change it. Then you have to pay 2.% of VAT for everything you buy, because you're in favour of amending the Value Added Tax Act and you're not paying it. We have little forgotten what the basic purpose of this law is today. The main purpose of this law is to join Members' rights to those points, those areas where we have intervened in public consumption. And why did we intervene in public spending? To reduce the deficit because we have accumulated so much public debt in recent years because we have increased the budget deficit to 2 billion because we have come to 48% of the gross domestic product of indebtedness and because in this situation it is necessary to act. The government has done its job, and it is right that the Members make a symbolic, demonstration, demonstration contribution. That's the whole story.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who might want to discuss it? I see a desire for further discussion, so I am opening a re-appeal to the debate for those who still have time available. This is a review after the shortening of the procedure, and therefore the time available is not shared among all other possible debaters. The application shall be made. Three panellists have been reported, but only Mrs Marija Plevčak has the opportunity to discuss and the time available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. It does not prevent me from taking the floor in a debate which in some cases is not appropriate for this Parliament. For I see what the viewers think when they watch us, as they follow our discussions, which do not reflect any respect for each other, which, by our identification and misinterpretation, may sometimes feel that we are taking care of ourselves. We must be well aware of how our people live, of what benefits, of what pensions we have, and of what we are complaining about and deplore about a certain percentage of our income being taken away from us. We all live in Slovenia! I think that everyone in Slovenia deserves, not just me Members, to live as much a solidarity and a life worth living. And I think that even the reduction of these monetary compensations for those who end up doing nothing, but I know some cases when they don't want to, not that they can't, they don't want to find work, they draw wages. I don't think that's right, and I urge you all to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I see Dr. Virant wants to be a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u147	Look, as a proponent, I would only support what Mrs Plevčak just said. In fact, the level of debate was unfortunately too low. I've always held on my own, and I've always held on to the fact that I don't insult anyone on a personal level, that I don't speak ill of anyone in the National Assembly to ad persons, and I kind of expected to get that respect myself. I didn't. I expected that we would discuss the content, the substantive issues, not the ad person. And secondly, because I would also like to support Mrs Plevčak's thought as a proponent; as much passion and energy as has been invested today in defending some Members of Parliament, however you wish to say it; rights or privileges; much, much too much. It's not an honor, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I don't see any desire after the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. DESCRIPTION OF THE DAY-TERM REPRESENTATION OF THE DECISION ON MANAGEMENT WITH THE CAPITAL INVESTIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN THE NLB, D.D. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor here to the representative of the Government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, whom I welcome with mag. Sam Kutoshem, secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u149	Dear Members and honourable Members! When we proposed a change to the State Capital Investment Management Act a few months ago, some of you also discussed on the opposition's side in style why we actually keep our lives alive and donkeys for a transitional period, the Capital Investment Management Agency. It seemed pointless for us to abolish the Agency for a period in which we were preparing a new law that would otherwise regulate the management of the country's capital investments. We have already presented the concept publicly about what this law will look like. It is a lively public debate, in which, of course, you are all cordially invited to join. At the same time, when we based some of the urgent changes to the Capital Investment Management Act on two issues, one was that the Capital Investment Management Agency had not yet prepared such a capital investment management strategy as the Government could confirm. According to one of the ministers, the former government rejected the Agency's proposal for a strategy because it considered it inappropriate. The Agency did not then submit any new proposal, although it is the only one legally responsible for this. Under existing legislation, the government cannot draw up such strategies past the Agency. As there is no such strategy, we have foreseen in the law the possibility that until the strategy is in place to carry out the tasks of the Agency in the management of certain investments, the National Assembly may, by decree, empower the Government. We have added a condition that the National Assembly can do so only when it is justified to ensure the financial or fiscal and economic stability of the State. In the next 14 days, the congregations of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Bank of Maribor will take important decisions on the way to recapitalisation. In particular, in the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, arrangements will have to be signed with potential private investors, which will, of course, bring fresh capital to the bank. It is not planned for the State to sell its share, nor is it planned for the State to sell the shares held by that or that bank. If we want to do this, of course, we are fully aware of what we should do in relation to the legislation in force. But this is not planned. It is planned to make available, adopt collective decisions, adopt decisions that will allow for the recapitalisation of additional private capital. There must be no mistake in this process. The conclusions must be adopted at the meetings in exactly the way that the bot can be carried out. More importantly, this process will be designed to be credible and to receive a positive assessment by European banking regulators. So the government doesn't want to leave anything here to chance if anything is wrong, if anything happens past the planned procedures as it is, let's say. Some year ago, in the event of the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, when the will of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which had the power to act by the Government, which did not have those powers, was not harmonised. If anything like this happens now, the smallest thing that can happen is, of course, a huge increase in instability, the threatened stability of systemic banks, the possibility of forcing enforcement by bank regulators and so on. Since we want to prevent any possibility of this happening, and given the experience of the last months, when our coordination with the Capital Investment Management Agency is very difficult, when individual members of the Administration send letters to the public based, of course, on inaccurate and inadequate information, we do not want to risk uncoordinated action. Therefore, we propose this decree, which, of course, and I think, is perfectly clear, the National Assembly does not waive any powers, none of its powers is passed on to the Government, but it does transfer to the Government the powers vested in the Capital Investment Management Agency today. This is done on the basis of a law adopted by the National Assembly and foreseen for that purpose. Therefore, I think there is no reason not to support such a law, despite doubts that may exist in relation to [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] can also be explained in the debate. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u150	Procedurally, Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. At the beginning of today's meeting, I have tabled a procedural proposal to be present at this and the next item by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. The President of the National Assembly informed me that a notice had been sent. I expected the government's representative, that is, the Minister of Finance, to excuse or predict the Prime Minister. I note that this was not the case, so I am procedurally asking whether the President of the Government has responded to the invitation of the National Assembly to participate in these two agenda items or not. I think that this is important before the debate, which will be held both by the President of the Committee on Finance and, of course, later by the groups and Members and Members themselves, and I am therefore procedurally asking whether the President of the Government has responded to the call by the National Assembly to take part in these two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Let me tell you, we haven't received any written information from the Prime Minister. He was contacted by the secretary-general. Let me say that all business conditions are met for the continuation of the meeting. Mr Minister Janez Šuštersič is here, so I have no business or procedural reason to continue the meeting. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Committee of Mags. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 22nd urgent meeting, on 12 November 2016. 6. 2012 as a working mother of the Proposal for a Decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Ljubljanska banka submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, within its competence, forwarded specific comments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and to the annex to the decree. On the basis of the opinion, the amendments of the Coalition Group were tabled by Articles 1, 2 and 3 and the Annex and the Group of Social Democrats to Article 3 and to the annex to the Decree. At the meeting of the Committee, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance said that, pending the adoption of the strategy and the annual financial assets management plan, he could take into account Article 7 of the Amended Capital Investment Management Act, so that, pending the adoption of the strategy and annual management plan, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could propose to the National Assembly a decision on certain management acts relating to individual investment, if this is necessary to ensure the economic, financial or fiscal stability of the State. Since serious financial problems, particularly the identified insolvency of NLB as the most powerful banking group in the country, would constitute leverage for the financial and economic crisis, the successful recapitalisation of NLB in this year is crucial for the implementation of financial consolidation, so as to ensure an adequate public financial position as well as an appropriate credit rating rate for our country. Therefore, the reasons for the urgency of action under that provision in a particular case are sufficiently justified. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the comments of that service in the amendments of the five coalition groups were duly taken into account. In the discussion on individual articles, the opposition parliamentary groups stressed the dispute in the opening of the negotiations on intended divestment without the transitional consent of the National Assembly and the prior adoption of a strategy for integrated management of capital investments. According to coalition discussers, it is a matter of remedying the underlying banking issue at a given time. Since there are no potential buyers, the Ministry of Finance is working towards such integration on the ground. The Chairman of the Committee pointed out in his closing remarks that Banka Slovenije wants to have capital adequacy as a supervisor of banks, since the opinion of the European Supervisor not only affects the credit rating of the bank but is becoming a general credit rating of the country. Following the rejection of the amendments tabled by the opposition and at the meeting of the proposed amendments, representatives and representatives of the members of the members of the positive Slovenia Group and the Social Democrats have obstructed the meeting of the Committee before the final vote of the amendment on the motion for a resolution by the end of the discussion of this item. In the debate, the Committee, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and to the proposal for a decree. In doing so, as a result of the amendment adopted by the coalition groups, it became irrelevant to article 3 of the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. The Committee did not adopt the SD amendment to the proposal to amend the basic text of the bill. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft decree, including the annex which forms an integral part of the decree, and adopted the act. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended decision, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u154	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Your Honor! Allow me to come from what we have already said in the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group on the amendment of the Banking Act. The new Ljubljana Bank, a majority state-owned banking group with more than a third market share, is in a very unenviable position today. Its balance sheets are failing under poor credits, it can no longer perform one of its basic functions, it is lending money. And from an economic point of view, it's a disaster. You don't have to believe me. Go between entrepreneurs and people. The conditions and insurance required by Nova Ljubljanska Banka are completely unattainable for many. Moreover, due to its own problems with capital adequacy and liquidity, Nova Ljubljanska Banka can no longer help businesses in difficulty, which would probably have an opportunity to cope with the crisis with certain loan reprograms. He's sending them to bankruptcy to get at least some fresh capital out of bankruptcy. And this is a bank where Slovenian citizens have already lost 1.6 billion euros. The basic criticism we face today is that the government or coalition takes the right to direct influence over bank management. And, honourable Members, who, therefore, is to blame for the billions of euros in Slovenian and Slovenian money that went into the air? Worse still, they have been divided among business managers such as SCT, Vegrad, Primorje, Mercury, Pivovarna Laško, that many companies abroad, where millions and millions of euros have been lost, I am not even talking about. All governments have washed their hands in the last 15 years, because we have independent supervisors, we have supervisory agencies, we have regulators, we have Banka Slovenije. In short, responsibility is divided into so many institutions and so many individuals who place responsibility on each other that no one will eventually take it. Should we continue this practice? Indeed, the fact that governments have in principle lost their formal responsibilities has led to the situation in which state banks have been found. Today we are not talking about any sale of any bank in Slovenia, even though this topic, in our opinion, the opposition has also misused it in some of its positions. Even in the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to have the New Ljubljana Bank remain our bank in the long term. It would be best to become owners of banks of Slovenian funds, insurance companies, and institutional investors, as is practice in the Western world. It may be too late for that, but, as it is said, it is not today. With this decree is the end of meddling, the end of such and other lobbying, the end of mysterious phone conversations that open unlimited credit lines. Today we are granting the Government a mandate to cut off the Gordija knot and execute the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank, so that this bank will still be able to function as a bank. The government should regulate what respected colleagues and colleagues did to normal democratic countries years ago with their banks, that is, at the start of the global economic crisis. The starting points are, of course, much worse today than they were then. From the new debt of around 7 billion, which Slovenia accumulated in 2008-2011, aid was less than 10% of that amount to help the banking system. Now we're listening from the opposition's work to the opposite. Today, when the possibility of low-cost borrowing is no longer available, cash deposits are expected from the budget – you could say that it is rather double-faced. The hiding places around responsibility are finally over, Nova Ljubljanska Banka will no longer be an indirect or informal service to politics. This coalition has committed itself to rehabilitate the banking system and thereby eliminate a credit crunch that has lasted for years and has damaged economic development. This decree is a condition for us to fulfill this promise. That is why we will support him in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u156	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. The Act under consideration, which, in addition to the amendment of the Banking Act and the Decree on Capital Investment Management in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, in the New Bank of Maribor, in public, among experts and between us, Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, has raised considerable attention and diametrically opposed opinions, is the result of the fact that the strategy on capital investment management, which should be prepared in the first half of this year, is still not ready. And I wonder who's responsible. On the basis of the proposed material provided, it is not clear whether and what will be the amount of NLB recapitalisation and what will be the consequences for the amount of the State's public debt. The same question is the case in the case of a decree relating to the New Credit Bank Maribor. Since then I do not intend to comment in another debate, I also ask for this answer. In the DeSUS Group, given the weight and importance of the content of all the three acts that we are considering today, it is recalled that, in the event of a recapitalisation by the State, it is necessary to provide funding resources and to set a minimum return on capital. We don't know anything about this yet, and I think it's right for the Members of the National Assembly to see it. We therefore note the great risk of recapitalisation at the expense of taxpayers if private capital recapitalisation efforts fail or because of the possible failure to recapitalise this private capital. In the face of the speech, the taxpayers would not be recapitalized and our investment would not be needed. Then we remind you of the need for a rigorous review of the operations of banks, one and the other, which should result in the disclosure and sanctioning of those responsible who have caused the banking situation. We note the urgency of the recovery of banking by not having such anomalies in the future, which, as a result, have had a negative and even fatal impact on our economy. On the one hand, we have Taiwanese loans, fictitiously secured loans, and on the other hand there are no loans to start new businesses and to operate companies that have contracts for work and for those employees that they still have. We recall the fact that the banks in our country's mercy are actually our silver, so the government, with all its strong, should be careful about their fate and as a good master, take care of the efficiency, rationality and profitability of business, because we know that this has not yet been done. Following a number of concerns, our Group of Members will decide on the definition of this act after the debate. Given that the second decree that we have on the agenda today is the New Credit Bank decree, it practically regulates the same issue, let me say at this point that our parliamentary group has the same position as expressed above, so we will not be particularly aware of it, but we will be taking a close look at the debate in the new Banking Act as in the two decrees. Finally, I hope that I will also get the answers to my questions in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u158	The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much, colleague vice president. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, recently adopted in the National Assembly, may propose to the National Assembly, pending the adoption of the strategy and annual management plan for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, decisions on certain management acts relating to an individual investment, whose accounting value is at least EUR 5 million, if this is necessary to ensure the economic, financial or fiscal stability of the Republic of Slovenia. If such a decision is taken by the National Assembly, the Government shall be competent to carry out these management actions in accordance with the law governing public finances. In view of the content, this decree constitutes a formal legal act whereby the National Assembly takes that decision. The NLB Group is the largest Slovenian banking and financial group and a systemically important bank, meaning that its serious financial problems or even insolvency would trigger or deepen the financial and economic crisis in the country. The adoption of the Decision will allow for the rapid implementation of procedures relating to the urgent recapitalisation of the bank by the Government, without delay, of the long-term decision-making procedures at the Capital Investment Management Agency. The recapitalisation carried out is necessary to maintain the stability of the financial system in the country. The regulatory part of the decree, in accordance with the provisions of the law for the implementation of the management acts, empowers the Government. Since the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., is complex, the proposal for a decree allows the Government to carry out, as necessary, all the management acts provided for in Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, since at the following point we are considering a similar or similar proposal for a decision on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Credit Bank Maribor, d.d., I am already saying that the position of the New Slovenia Group in both decrees is the same. We will support both proposals for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u161	The honourable President, who unfortunately is not with us, because obviously this is a matter of little importance, of course I have in mind the President, I hope not of the so-called National Assembly. Nor will it be an honor for you to make this decision if you have mentioned it more than once today. There are many words and more actions that can't be of any honor to you either. Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of the law under item 2, you will introduce a new financial instrument, bonds, Coco bonds, which at some point turn into a capital share. On the Committee on Finance, we found that, in fact, the moment when bonds are converted into capital, they already exist. And that another partner in the bank will immediately turn these bonds into capital and, of course, increase its share. The proportion of the Republic of Slovenia will decrease. Makes sense. It can't be any different. And to change the bank's ownership structure in this way is unacceptable. You're gonna sell our biggest bank under the table. And that's why you need the decree that's in front of us now. By confirming the decision before us, you will give the government the right to do what it wants with our bank. I know you don't like to hear this, but, colleague and colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, the fact is that Mr. Žerjav is in July 2010 – it is said to be not so long ago – demanded that we convene an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance on the subject of the sale of this same New Ljubljana Bank, where he said that something was happening again in the "owning restructuring area," so to speak, our most important and our largest NLB banks, and since this is certainly a very important topic, strategic theme, we have decided in the Slovenian People's Party to call an urgent meeting. We are in the Slovenian People's Party against the sale, namely, this bank, according to our estimate, must remain in the majority ownership of Slovenia". These are the words of your President, Mr Žerjev, a colleague and colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party. You can read it in a magnetogram if you don't believe my words. It can be that the bank remains in the majority ownership of the country or our citizens and citizens, still your wishes and unfortunately the actions are different. I believe that today, when you're selling a bank, it hurts, but I can't help but feel that you can change your mind so radically, and then you're still insulted when we tell you that you're populist. And now why such a turnaround? Why are you here today for this sale, and a year ago, you strongly opposed it? That's a responsibility, too. Under the table, completely untransparent and you don't even know at what cost we're going to lose such an important bank. We can sell our biggest system bank for 150 million. That's what was said on the Finance Committee. You'll also have to look into the eyes of the citizens tomorrow and tell them why you did it. Why did you sell our biggest bank under the table, past the public's eyes, without transparent procedure? Why did you strongly oppose it a year ago, and today you will help to elevate our citizens. Mr. Secretary says it's not a sale, it's a "greeting." Of course, but you will have it in such a way that the country's share will be reduced. What's more than a sale, Mr. Secretary-General? Why we still do not have a capital investment management strategy on the table so that together we can find decisions on what is good and important for Slovenia. You'd rather go into hiding and do it quietly. Why so, I ask myself and many of our citizens. What are you hiding? Ladies and gentlemen, I have already told you this once today, and I will repeat this: you have not acquired the countries and our assets, but you have to manage them for the benefit of all citizens. You, your fellow Members and colleagues of the coalition, have not received any response from the Finance Committee, but you support such flawed solutions that may lead to the untransparent and cheap sale of our largest bank. We don't know how much tax money this manoeuvre is going to be, we don't know how much this is going to increase our budget deficit, we don't even know if this manoeuvre of yours is going to help our bank. We don't know anything, but you support it! I would like to draw your attention to something else, and any capital investment must be shown in the national budget. If the State is indeed going to buy out these Coco bonds and convert them immediately into a capital share, this must be reflected in the expenditure of the state budget. You don't have this money in the balance sheet this year. EUR 2 million is foreseen for this purpose. This also proves that you will exercise with the state, that is, our common money, just like that, at home, and this is simply not the way it should be. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you will recognize this in the coalition, and that you will not follow the government's instructions blindly. You will be responsible for this sale with today's vote for you, and nothing will untie your responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you are the one who will give the government the biocommunity to work with our property to do what it wants. You're the one who's in, even though you don't know what effect it's gonna have. You're the one who's gonna sell the bank under the table. You're the one who's gonna be responsible for this. And once they find responsibility for these acts in the future, we know where it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u162	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik. I see that Mr. Franz Puksic wishes procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Before I make a procedural proposal, a few explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u164	Strictly procedural, please, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u165	It will be extremely procedural, yes, in terms of populism. A billion 600 was given to the bank, about a billion needed fresh capital if we even want the bank to start operating as a bank and a year ago it was this country [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u166	Mr Pukšič, the agreement at the college was to first make a proposal, then make a statement, and kindly ask you to take this agreement into account, I hope that you will take this agreement into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u167	My procedural proposal is that the views of the parliamentary groups should not be repeated and, at two different points, read the same position as it did. Now I'm gonna tell you why not. Because the situation which was one year ago and the position of the Slovenian People's Party changed significantly in one year. The then government coalition, which was owned by a colleague and was responsible for the country's budget, gave him an additional debt of 2 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u168	Mr. Puksich, thank you very much. Let me stress that today's agenda has been adopted at the college, and we will stick to the agenda, which does not mean that any of the members of the groups should not give up the next item's position when it comes to similar positions. So it'll be possible to do that in the opposite direction. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u169	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The crisis of the banking system in Slovenia is deepening and consequently the Slovenian economy is losing its competitiveness. Credit crunches and poor liquidity are key problems of the Slovenian economy, without a thorough resolution of the banking system we cannot expect to improve the economic situation. The proposal to amend and supplement the Banking Act and the Decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Ljubljanska Banka is the first step towards a thorough resolution of the banking system which will allow the further development of the Slovenian economy. The amendment of the Banking Act introduces the possibility of issuing so-called Coco bonds, which is linked to an instrument of approved or conditionally increased capital. It is important that the European Banking Supervisory Authority supports such solutions and does not oppose them mainly for reasons that the financial power of the owner of the banks has decreased significantly and therefore the recapitalisations by bank owners are significantly hampered. We do not understand the opposition and the difficult words of the opposition Members on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, such as transparency, selling from under the table, crime. If that were not the case, we would mention some of the facts that speak in favour of such a way of rehabilitating the banking system. A number of European banks have decided in the last period to resolve it in the way the proposed amendment to the Banking Act allows. As early as 2009, Lloyds Banking Group carried out such a method of recovery and ensured that core capital was appropriate. In 2010, there was also the Dutch bank Rabobank. Another example is the Swedbank issue of 1.5 billion CoCo bonds, Bank of Cyprus 1.3 billion dollars, Swiss UBS and Credit Suisse Bank. In May, the third largest Italian bank, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, announced such rehabilitation. Such a means of recovery and ensuring the appropriate capital adequacy and banking system is the least risky proposal primarily for taxpayers. These are the words of Finance Minister Evelina Widmer-Schlumpf in the Swiss Parliament when Parliament approved the issue of CoCo bonds for UBS and Credit Suisse. In the SDS Group, we have the feeling that the biggest problem for opposition parties and the most disturbing one is that the current government has found a solution to the resolution of the banking system or the two largest banks, the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank of Maribor. Voting in favour of the proposal for a decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank is essential for ensuring economic, financial and fiscal stability in the Republic of Slovenia. Since serious financial problems would, in particular, constitute leverage for the financial and economic crisis, the successful recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in this year as the most powerful banking group in the country is crucial to the implementation of financial consolidation, both in order to ensure an adequate public financial position and an appropriate credit rating rate for our country. This solution does not mean selling the New Ljubljana Bank under the table, but allows for successful recovery and ensures the stability of the financial system. It is incomprehensible to us in the SDS Group that, in addition to the opposition, the AUKN has the most comments, the Capital Investment Management Agency, which has had a scissors and a canvas in its hands for the last three years in the management of this investment. The results of the management of investments by AUKN, the Capital Investment Management Agency, and the Bank of New Ljubljana have been catastrophic, although more than € 1.6 billion of tax money has been invested in the bank in recent times. In 2009, the loss of Nova Ljubljanska Banka Group: 56 million, 2010 – the loss of Nova Ljubljanska Banka Group: 206 million euros, In 2011, EUR 480 million of additional credit losses and provisions were created, and the loss of the NLB Group amounted to EUR 282 million in 2011. Moody's reiterated its rating at Ba2 in April of this year, which is already the seventh reduction in its credit rating since 2009. The evaluation of the Agency's future prospects is also negative. We have difficulty hearing what the opposition has to say about national interest, about Slovenian silver. We will be able to talk about national interest when the Slovenian economy will benefit from Nova Ljubljanska banka, from Nova Kredittna banka Maribor and added value. Today, Slovenian companies pay substantially higher interest than competing companies abroad, and these so-called loans cannot be reached at all. This is certainly not a national interest or added value for the Slovenian economy. In the SDS Group, we will support the amendment of the Banking Act and the Resolution on the Management of the Capital Investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank, because the changes do not constitute the sale of the bank under the table but allow the best solution at a given time, better and more rational management of the investment and the condition for the resolution of the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u170	The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u171	Respected and respected! Those who say this is the most important decision of this mandate are disturbed – this is the most fatal question of Slovenia and its development for decades to come! It's not our only key problem that we have to adapt to, that it takes up to 30. 6. 2012 adequately satisfy the European Banking Authority, the European Banking Authority, the European Regulator in this area. Our key problem is the high indebtedness of the economy and the chronic sub-capitalisation of banks. We have been alerting the Social Democrats for some time now. We would like to be able to concentrate so much rational debate in the National Assembly in Slovenian politics that we can cut these problems without jeopardising our long-term prospects for development. Yes, the issue of national interest is a first-class political issue. And we stress: there is no nation and there is no country without national interest. Unfortunately, however, we have an obvious government that does not use the issue of national interest in assessing its conduct as one of the key criteria. And yes, we agree, national interest is not just a question of whose banks are. Of course, the key question is whether, through ownership and through ownership, the stable ownership of banks in Slovenia ensures the stability of the financial system and the ability of the economy to rent available resources in the banking and financial system to finance its development. Over-indebtedness of the economy and capital weakness of banks are key causes of economic stagnation. Without the country's active approach, these two big and interconnected problems will not be solved. Without this, it will not be necessary to stabilise economic movements or start an economy. Today, some spoke about the reasons why we came into this chronic state of overindebtedness, giving false information. They talked about public debt, which is not a problem at all. In doing so, they even misrepresented that the previous government had raised EUR 7 billion of public debt, with only 5% earmarked for the resolution of a bank spasm. That's not true! Just the majority of foreign ownership in some banks caused 3 billion euros of money to go up at the start of the crisis in Slovenia. For the stability of the financial system, it was therefore necessary to react in 2009 precisely by sending around EUR 2 billion of liquid assets to the Slovenian banks, which ensured the stability of the financial system. External gross debt is a problem. In 2004 and 2008, and especially after entering the euro area in 2007 and 2008, Slovenia accumulated the main enormous increase in its external debt, when we came to EUR 39 billion of our gross external debt in 2004 with 15 billion debt. How could this have happened to us? During that period, Slovenia was swamped with an abundance of cheap money, which, in fact, at a time when we should invest in development, went to a significant extent into the issue of phase 3 property owned by the public. It is quite clear that at the time the regulator, Banka Slovenije, cancelled and that it is also a fiscal authority, the then government with the Bajuk-Shirtz tax reform, made a significant contribution to the fact that macroeconomic stability was significantly hampered during that period. The external shock that followed in the form of an external international wave at the start of the economic and financial crisis is simply a calculation and the ability of Slovenia to survive and balance this great internal imbalance is simply shattered. We condemn any domestic interference. National interest or tycoonization. The national interest is not that we have poor bank management. It is not a national interest to share loans via telephone and through connections. Therefore, we are consistently demanding responsibility and expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with its own and the competent repressive law enforcement authorities, to call those responsible for what happened to Slovenia in the years when we failed our development opportunities before the rule of law. At the same time, the State, as owner of these banks, will open and file compensation actions against the administrations, supervisory boards of state banks, irrespective of the colour of the directors or directors of these banks. That is why I am asking a public question to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, is it true that the Ministry of Finance, prior to the implementation of the Assembly of the New Credit Bank of Maribor and before the implementation of the Assembly of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka at the end of this month, objected to the proposal of the Agency for Capital Investment Management, that these two assemblies should consider, on the one hand, the initiation of the audit of the very different business of the administration itself, the Supervisory Board related to poor investment, investments with companies in tax havens and, on the other hand, the revision of the harmful business of the New Credit Bank of Maribor in Croatia, which limitation deadlines for the submission of compensation claims are due this August? Is it true, Mr. Secretary of Finance? Because if that's true, that's a serious reason for concern for all of us. In doing so, I particularly call on the coalition Members and Members to demand this responsibility consistently from this government and from the Minister of Finance, before today's decision, because without it any talk of responsibility, of where millions went, is completely overkill. It's empty. Yeah. The consequences of past mistakes are so strong and so fatal that the Social Democrats, on behalf of all the unemployed, on behalf of the failed companies and on behalf of all those companies and people whose jobs and prospects are at risk today, demand that the competent authorities in charge, the Government and the Capital Investment Management Agency of the culprits be held accountable to the rule of law and that the State, as the owner of the bank, file damages against the administrations and supervisory boards of those banks. The poor management of banks is not at all justifiable, but that does not mean that the only solution is to end this, the privatisation of banks. With the assistance of the ruling majority, the government wants to take full powers to decide on the country's systemic most important investment. The National Assembly, which by law decides on the availability of capital investments, will obviously be without any explanation and information on the essential elements of recapitalisation. We have not heard these essential elements of recapitalisation either at the Tuesday's Finance Committee or in today's opening presentation by the Minister. The importance of the New Ljubljana Bank is remarkable. It is the largest system bank in the Republic of Slovenia, with a market share of 40%. It is the second largest bank in the region of Southeast Europe. This is the region that is bankingly most underdeveloped throughout Europe and therefore has the greatest growth potential. At the same time, we will also sell important network companies, such as Mercator, Pivovarna Laško with Pivovarna Union, Del and Vecer, Petrol, Istrabenz, Iskra autoelectrica, Unior, Adria Airways, the property of church holding companies with Helios and Belinka on the forehead and many other investments. Today it must be quite clear – when we decide to make a completely unclear assessment of the recapitalisation or privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, we decide to sell the Slovenian economic system. Slovenian banks are the backbone of economic development. As a community, we must understand that the banking and financial system is the infrastructure for the blood circulation of our society. We want to place Slovenia among countries with a high share of domestic ownership of banks, such as Germany with 88%, the Netherlands with 95% and Austria with 77%, and Sweden with 91% of domestic ownership of banks. Domestic ownership of the dominant part of the banking system is a guarantee of real national sovereignty. It is a tool to ensure the stability of the financial system and, above all, in these uncertain times, the ability to manage future crisis shocks. A measure is necessary to break credit crunches, to speed up and actively repay businesses and to take an active approach to managing bad investments. These are all prerequisites for economic recovery. Once we have adopted a mega-intelligence package, we have warned the Social Democrats that this is the beginning of a savings-indebted spiral, because the government, with the under-indeed consolidation of public finances, is reducing the possibilities for recovery and is actually counterproductive: reducing growth actually reduces public financial revenues, and this always requires new denials and belt tightenings. Back then, we correctly assessed that the current government was doing so on purpose to realize its ambitions after the massive privatisation of state property and state services. Yes, recapitalization is necessary. Yes, there is a need for significantly improved management. And yes, an approach to managing poor investments is needed. But the approach is wrong and is crucial for the development of our national economy. What's the script? The scenario is that the NCBs will cash in a marketable low-value hybrid worth EUR 130 million, thereby carrying out the first recapitalisation phase to improve the bank's share of the bank's primary capital above 7%. This will then allow the issuance of the banking mechanism of the conditional swap bond instrument, which is very likely to also be performed by the NCBs, which at the end of this process will mean that KBC will become the owner of the New Ljubljana Bank at 55%. We do not believe that this so-called temporary solution will prevent the further decline of the capital adequacy of the New Ljubljana Bank. The estimates of this year's estimated losses, which can be expected at the end of the year, show that the ratios will fall and that the conditions will then be met for the bonds to be converted to the capital of the bank, and that New Ljubljana Bank will then, without the State Assembly actually deciding on them, move into the majority ownership of foreigners. It's important to say something about KBC. Social Democrats are allies of the entry of foreign capital into Slovenia. However, we must also assess what this capital is. Do new investors promise the growth and development of our companies, our banks, or do they come here to exhaust and solve their problems at home? Today, Moody's agency has issued new credit ratings on the Belgian NCB insurance and banking group and these show, of course, by weakening and dropping these estimates that the NCBs are significantly more sensitive to the uncertainty of European macroeconomic circumstances due to their high exposure to some markets where stressful developments can be expected. This is mainly the case with Ireland and Hungary, with losses resulting from these exposures increasing in the future. Moody's also notes that the ability of the NCBs to respond adequately and meet the criteria of the European Commission for the refinancing of the NCBs' liabilities and debt is being reduced and that the funds due in the coming year are being repaid to the Belgian State and the Flemish Community at a total value of EUR 7 billion in 2013. Finally, the general circumstances have led the NCBs to significantly tighten the financing conditions of the bank, to the ability of the NCBs to obtain, in fact, available loans to finance their obligations. The key danger is therefore that at the end of this process we will sell the majority share in this bank to someone else intransparency, at a low price, and the result will be that, in fact, the foreign owner will exhaust the Slovenian accumulation in order to solve his problems at home. There will be no start of domestic accreditation, perhaps only in the segment that promises the largest profits and has relatively low risks. Do we really want New Ljubljana Banks as the most important system bank in our country? Social Democrats, and this concludes, we are proposing an alternative. We suggest that we weigh among the poor and find out which is the worst for the long-term development of our society. In doing so, we propose that the state use 150 million euro of its reserved funds in state funds and the share of state deposits in state banks worth about one billion euros and recapitalises both state banks with these funds. In this way we will actually improve the capital adequacy of banks, in fact they will react to the financial markets and reduce the risks required in borrowing these banks abroad, thus improving the creditworthiness of these banks, and in this way we will cut the bank spasms in our country most actively. The amendments tabled also speak of the fact that we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to recapitalise and make available this capital investment again to the National Assembly and to obtain the approval of the National Assembly for the final use of this investment. If the Government decides to use a conditionally convertible bond instrument, we very clearly expect the Social Democrats to participate in their purchase at least in the same proportion as in the capital of the New Ljubljana Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u172	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! I hope that I will not pick up many minutes of this fine Friday afternoon, but in the Group of the National Gazette, we will support, in both cases, the proposal of the decrees, as someone is finally taking responsibility for the ownership of the country's shares in these two large banks, as it has not been so far. If we only hear and see what the current administrator or state representative writes in the management of the AUKN state banks, we can see from these words and from these letters that there is not much to know about the situation in the bank and what needs to be done in the bank. Everyone was moving backwards, too. I wonder who's ruled these banks for the last ten years. Surely there is not even a supervisory function here – as I had forgotten before; the Court of Auditors of the Bank of Slovenia, the Agency for Securities Markets, the various agencies we have and, of course, the supervisory councils and final administrations. I don't know who they were, who was in charge of this system, but we know that it was managed very badly, or we wouldn't be talking about the need for recapitalisation right now. It is sad, as I said before, that practically after all these events that have happened, we are in a situation where we can say without any thought that this bank, with its decisions and its leadership, has done us all enormous harm to the citizens of Slovenia, which we will not bear in a few years. and no government had any control over the business. Who are these networks, and who channeled this money to specific and known addresses? Earlier, Mrs Opec said nicely: "I don't understand and I will never understand how the bank can give credit to companies that are in very big trouble." Banks have systems, they have specialists, they have full and too many people who closely monitor the company at every turn. I was, I was making loans, it was never right, it was never right, and all the mortgages, all the stuff, it was hard to get credit if you weren't the one who was right, I'd say the bank gave you credit, no matter what your business results were. I used to write that we have some kind of new system here and I called it catch the cash capitalism. I said, because in the final stage, some of these companies care about the development of businesses, the development of new technologies, the reduction of costs, the increase in productivity. The directors simply found a much easier way to go in the first phase of the state subsidy, they added them, added them to the results and showed great results at the expense of these state subsidies. When Europe began to intervene and prevent these state subsidies, then we found a simpler way to go to the bank, and those who had this opportunity and these connections were getting loans. In the first phase, these loans were indeed intended for the start-up of the company, etc., for export and for these matters. Now in this, exactly as someone said when we entered the European Union, the banks were first on the market because we were new, fresh, all the lines were open. I don't know why they're complaining now that they don't have the money. Now they should go up 100% by 10 billion debt and there will be no problem, and money will be for businesses. In short, this was done, and then, in greed, I don't know what kind of earnings that money was given for all the other purposes. There have been a lot of these payments here to various financial institutions, various corporate purchasers. This should not be allowed, no state should allow this, because for the purchases of companies practically for speculative purposes, the State has granted loans to state banks. He knew in advance that no one would be able to repay this loan. In addition to all these things that have been, regardless of the crisis, I say, the crisis has brought our banking situation 5%. But 95% are our specific stupidities that we've done and the strangest things we've done. And if I was talking about managers' buyouts, when different companies and individuals were getting hundreds of millions of euros of credit, it was logical at the time, I had already warned them, it is not possible to calculate the profits of businesses to get it back, it is a completely wrong thing. Then the whole range of companies that seem to have one special role in our country are in some way privileged, everyone is fighting, every policy is fighting for staffing in these companies, that it really has reliable resources there, because it seems that in some companies money is being made available to various accounts, and no matter what results this company achieves. As long as there are good results after profit in the company, part of the rent should be taken to some so-called so-called, I would say, Mafia botts. Of course, when the banks ran out of business money, they jumped banks and gave generous loans. I can't believe I can't understand how and where, for example, SCT – 300 million credits, liabilities, Primorje and what else I know – but I wouldn't talk about these holding systems, which in any case have no place to create their assets – how and how they should have been credited so much! Take the example of our biggest company that's gone down, SCT. Yeah, half the Slovenian Cross was built. We all say they had great prices, sounds great. It's a service company. Yeah, what do they need 100 million credits for? And this company never made any profit, nothing, everything went missing. All the money went missing, and we had a great time as long as these things worked that way. And now we're watching and talking about how we're going to protect the silver, the interest. What we have before us, these two banks, where this is probably one of the rare possibilities, when we can still influence and do something in the sense that somehow the situation is being remedied, which, I tell you, will not be saved for another 10 years, but here we say that we do not and do not trust the Government. It makes sense that someone has to take over this matter, try to find a solution. And thank God if they find her, at least we'll share that burden for a long time, but we won't get rid of him, believe me. Let us be serious about these matters, and let us trust people who are willing to negotiate and fight. Come on, please, tell us some better options, if they are, the ministry will certainly take them into account if they are real. Playing like we've been playing and looking for special privileges and things so far, we really can't let that happen anymore. We talk a lot about these tycoon loans. I've told you a hundred times, and I'll do it again. We talk about how these people are, we judge them, and I don't know what these people got some money on these banks and where they put it. These people used money to buy shares in companies. We know we've had some stupid property. Many years ago, I said, "Well, if we have decided on this form of property distribution, let us put at least 15 years of moratorium on the sale of these certificates, because it is impossible and illogical to put all Slovenian assets on the market where you have no demand." Logically, people for a beer bottle sold those certificates, gave them, or whatever. Some of them found themselves. Of the 2 million people, there were 3,000 people who somehow came to large shares, large companies. And then what was needed? According to small businesses, these tycoon stories happened invisible when we got to the bigger ones when we had to put EUR 400 million on the table, or EUR 300 or 200, but we found that this was no different than taking the bank money. This money went to specific addresses, you know. Those who forwarded it, Kordez and similar, were not special entrepreneurs, they bought too much five times. All that money, that's exactly where he went. And I want to see that one day someone would really go into these institutions and look at and pour pure wine and maybe even punish someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u174	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is wanted by the Minister on behalf of the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u175	Your Honor! I listened attentively to the debates, not just today, even in the past days. Allow me to provide some explanations or comments before continuing the discussion. The first thing I would like to say is that the framework in which the Government operates in the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is very clear. First of all, there is a coalition agreement which speaks of the fact that the state in the New Ljubljana Bank will retain at least 25% of ownership in order to prevent strategically harmful decisions. Then there is a document adopted by the Government and it is called Sectoral Policies for the Financial Sector, where this is the same, it is said that the State will retain 25% and 1 share in order to ensure that Nova Ljubljanska Banka remains a Slovenian bank to remain a separate bank, it is said, not a branch of another group and that it performs all those functions that the Bank must perform in the Slovenian economy. These decisions adopted by the Government, or amendments to this sectoral strategy, now set out some other things, that is to say that in order to obtain additional capital, not for the purpose of selling the bank, but with a view to obtaining additional capital, the Government invites private investors to do so and that this negotiation process is led by the Ministry of Finance, because, of course, future or potential interlocutors expected to have communication with the Government's top representatives. This process of looking for opportunities for additional capital to increase the capital adequacy of banks and enable them to normally lend to the economy has been taking place since February. On the basis of the powers given to me by the Government, I appointed a narrow negotiating group, in addition to the two persons, the Secretary of State and the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance, including the President of the AUKN administration and the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board, because we were acting on formations and we wanted to involve all those people who are most responsible and also responsible for the resolution of the situation. All these people have signed a very strict and very clear commitment to silence on the process of these negotiations. This is also why the Secretary of State could not have been able to explain the talks in more detail, and this is also why, in my opinion, the President of the AUKN administration did not co-sign a letter sent yesterday by two members of the administration to Members because, as a member of the negotiating group, it is very well aware that the information and assumptions on which this letter is based do not correspond to the facts do not correspond to what is actually happening in the negotiating process, but must not talk about it. Why not? Because in Slovenia we have seen in the past a number of announced recapitalisations of foreign investments, also the entry of very good investors into Slovenian companies that stopped at the moment they came to the front pages of newspapers. And so it seemed very important to us, and our interlocutors appreciated this very much that we kept this process far from the public eye. Of course, every day there was something written in the newspaper, but there were assumptions, guesses of newspapers, that's all. Even if they were ever close by chance to being accurate, they were still mere guesses, because it was simply the only information that came from the Ministry of Finance that we did not comment on these matters until the agreement was concluded in the interest of a successful recapitalisation process. Unfortunately, we still do not have all the signatures that are necessary for us to come before the public and say, "So, now we have a treaty that is solid, signed and we can present it." But we're very close. We're talking about a few days, maybe a week or more. In this context, however, I can explain some things. First, let me explain the Coco bonds mechanism. Fears, doubts that have been expressed today are such that Coco’s bond does not really allow them. If I've understood thinking correctly, that's kind of the way it goes. Someone today pays a CoCo bond, like a KBC or some other private investor, converts it into capital tomorrow. No, that's not working. CoCo is an instrument regulated by the European Banking Authority – EBA and prohibits this possibility for someone who enters this bond to convert the bond into capital on his own request. This is said to be the case, even if a private investor entered it, it cannot, by its own volition, when he wants or requires it, convertible capital. These bonds shall be converted into capital only if the so-called trigger event occurs. One trigger event is that the bank's capital falls below 7%. Of course, we have looked at the bank's business, we have also looked at the projection of this business and we are convinced that it is possible to prevent at least by the end of the year the bank's capital from falling below 7%, that is to say automatic conversion of these bonds into capital. The second possible trigger or trigger that will be in these bonds is that, unless the actual additional capital reaches the bank by the date we set ourselves, the conversion of the bonds into capital is initiated. So, not at the request of the one who entered the bonds, but under precisely specified conditions, which are there to make this case credible, that actually means that if the bank comes into trouble, if there is no other solution, then this is converted to capital. Of course, it is possible, and this is one of the options that we are seriously considering, as also proposed by the SD Member, that part of these bonds or even a larger part or maybe all of them be entered by means of capital or the role of the State already in the banks. This is one of the most serious possibilities. Of course, this option, given that it would have been used for six months, would not have meant an increase in the deficit because it would have been within the year, and secondly it would not have been an increase in the indebtedness, since the debt on which these deposits in the banks were based had already been made and also properly recorded and shown in the balance sheet of the country in previous years. Thus, it is not a recapitalisation with additional State indebtedness, even if all of these bonds are entered by the State. Another time. As far as hybrid instruments are concerned, there is no indication that 130 million is the value of hybrid instruments held by the NCBs. This is the approximate value of all such instruments issued by Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Nor does the NCBs argue that if the purchase of these hybrids occurs cheaply, it will result in a loss, a discount that will have to meet the usual discounts on the market today, otherwise we will have problems with the supervision of the European Commission because such transactions have to be done on market terms. When the KBC does this, if he does this, he'll book a loss. It is said that it will work in favour of gaining a share in the New Ljubljana Bank in its short-term financial damage. On this basis, the share can be obtained depends on the price at which the capital is paid. Of course, I cannot say anything concrete about this price to you, but it will certainly be higher than the prices that have changed in the last year as a percentage of the book value and so on, as discussed before one year, year and half about possible recapitalisations. On this basis, neither through these bonds nor through the purchase of hybrids can any of the scenarios make the NCBs more than half the owner of this bank or more. So this scenario isn't, it's not real, it's not even possible, given what we're planning. As far as the issue of a careful review of responsibility is concerned and so on. A very serious and careful review is taking place in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. I guess you could say that this is the most serious careful review that's ever been in this bank. Why the most serious? This is because the Ministry of Finance is acting in the interest of the highest quality due diligence and is also forcing the bank to act in the interest of a thorough review. We in Slovenia in the past – you know these cases – have had many episodes where, for example, corporate administrations and banks have not been fully involved in a careful review, they have been concealing information, trying to show the situation in their companies or banks to reviewers better than it is. In this case, this does not happen because we are concerned that this cannot happen, although it would probably be if we didn’t worry about it. Next thing you know, responsibility. Mr Frangež also asked about the New Credit Bank Maribor or the positions that the Government had represented in the negotiation with the AUKN on how to vote in the assembly. First of all, let me tell you what the conclusions that this Assembly finally voted with the consent of the Government and also with the active participation of the Government in the drafting of these conclusions and in the consensus on these decisions. First of all, neither the board nor the supervisory board have been granted discharge. Secondly, the new supervisory board was given a very clear mandate to review all the audits already carried out in the bank, many of these audits were carried out, including the Bank of Slovenia carried out an extraordinary audit, so we did not feel we needed to order another one, but we felt we needed to look at what was done. The Supervisory Board, the new Supervisory Board shall also have the task of examining and deciding, on the basis of these audits, whether it is reasonable or justified to file compensation or any other action, not only against the administration, but also against the supervisors of that bank. Here was one of the key differences between us and AUKN. In its original decision, AUKN requested only the responsibility of the administration. This seemed pointless to us because if something was done wrong, it was probably part, if not large, of the responsibility of the one who controlled it or should have it, but it did not. Thirdly, the auditor proposed by the bank was not confirmed because he had been the auditor of this bank for several years but was ordered to seek out a new auditor. Fourthly, the bank was ordered to carry out a very serious review of its business and status within one month. All these measures were fulfilled by the agreement of the Government, adopted by the Assembly. Of course, we were opposed to reading the audit reports at the Assembly, making a big public story out of this, because it would harm some of the recapitalisation processes that we must take to this bank as well. Thus, we are very responsible, we have taken all the necessary decisions for this, but we have avoided a media pump that would probably not be in the best interest of the bank or the interest of the state in that bank. About the alternatives. Yeah, of course there's a few spares, there's no 150 million, it's a little bit less, on Soda and Kadu. That's what I was informed about at the handover. This reserve is by no means sufficient to recapitalise. Deposits are in banks, too. It was a question of the necessary level of recapitalisation. We are currently talking about raising the bank's capital from 6% to 9%, which is about 500 million here somewhere. At the same time or in parallel it will be necessary to ensure the normal functioning of the bank in the coming months, additional capital will be needed here. This is a question of cleared banking balance sheets, of issues and the resolution of bad claims, of the fate of non-bank investments. This capital will also have to be provided by private owners, either in some ways by the state. In particular, we will be able to start solving these matters when a careful review is done, we count on it to be done by the end of the month, and that we will be doing it together, at least with some of the private owners in the bank. Thus, what is the problem and what has been very clear in these months, no one is prepared to co-owner a bank in which the Slovenian state has more than 50% ownership. This is a consequence of a history that I don't want to talk about too much; bad governance, political governance, bad governance, bad governance, what you said about phone calls, and something else you could say. The country is expected to withdraw to the point where it will not be able to manage its phones, but will have to manage it in the way that a serious bank is managed in the real world. And, of course, it's a full participation. I hope that this at least the first round of some of the dilemmas that you have highlighted will explain and some of these dilemmas will appear to be seeming. Of course, I will continue to listen carefully to your discussions and, of course, I will respond to them if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u176	Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrades and colleagues, hello again! I must say that I cannot get rid of the feeling that, despite the explanations we have just received, we still do not have sufficient information to make such a fateful decision as the decree does. This said that the Government should allow the procedures for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and, of course, the NKBM later. How can Members untie themselves for taking or participating in such important decisions that will be crucial to the development of Slovenia not only in the coming years but perhaps in the decades ahead. We decide, however, on matters which are important in relation to the fate of the Slovenian state. This is because the system bank, such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka, is too strongly linked to the Slovenian economy. Too strongly connected to how many jobs, if you want, will be kept or opened in the future in the Slovenian space. And you say, transfer all authority to the government, trust us, and you Members, "screw and wait." I don't think it can be that way. The answers to questions are not enough. In particular, I cannot get rid of the bad feeling I got on the Committee on Finance, where the Secretary of State covered himself with a hat and insulted the Members we asked him questions. If there's a point where the coalition and the opposition should step together, it's here. Bringing all my mind together and all my thoughts together to figure out how to solve this mess, which I have to admit is not easy at all. It's actually a square circle. However, it is important to be aware that if Slovenia continues to have a decisive impact on the development of its Slovenian bank, it will also have a decisive impact on the development of its economy, otherwise it will become a banana republic. Yes, it is quite clear that the majority owner will primarily defend his own interests and save himself, but not think about the Slovenian economy. That is why the weight of this decision is so important today. I can say that I am really disappointed that, when we discuss such an important topic, Mr Prime Minister does not feel the need to appear before Members and Members and, in fact, to them personally ensure that things are going in a way that will be optimal for development in Slovenia. To calm us down. To give us new assurances. That we may sit in the closed section of the meeting and discuss issues that cannot be solved here before the public, because, of course, the negotiating process of its legality also has such matters. No, no, no. We're supposed to believe, press the button and say, "Yeah, we're moving everything to the government." No, no, no. In this way, we do not want to participate in this story in our parliamentary group. In any way, we propose that the essential elements of the Government's activity be reported to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the final concept, the amendment of the statute and the increase of the core capital here in the National Assembly. If something diminishes the reputation of Members and Members, it is that we renounce what the Constitution requires of us what the Rules of Procedure require of us. We're not committed to this. Of course, what can happen is what I expect the voting machine to do again. I'm not giving you the bio-community. But I wash my hands, like Pontius Pilate, on what you will do yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u178	Mr Richard Braniselj has the word, in fact, 13 seconds of time, you're probably giving up. Next, Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u179	Vice President, thank you for your word. The theme we are dealing with is very difficult. I can't help but say, at first, that the government is proposing a solution. However, we cannot say that these solutions are not good and are particularly bad. Of course, what was said in the homework and what was said today in the National Assembly and many of them have doubts that they have not received sufficient information. But if we have listened closely to the Minister of Finance a little earlier, I think that these are procedures that someone has to take and a partner in this matter requires that in some way things are going in this direction, that everything will not be done before it is already agreed in the newspapers, and all that has happened in the past around the banks, I think that there is nothing wrong with us and that we must have in this government that has dealt with this issue in a timely and immediate manner, we must also have a certain confidence. I understand the opposition's criticism of this issue. In particular, I wish that this solution was good and that in the end we could all say that we have done something for this country and for the Slovenian economy. I'll start easy and simple. When I'm in Ljutomer, in my place, I usually go to have coffee with my friends, colleagues of economics, independent entrepreneurs, small businessmen and middle-sized entrepreneurs in the morning. Unfortunately, we don't have big entrepreneurs in Ljutomer; some of them are good, some very good, and others are worse or worse if you want. Every conversation that runs between coffee now I don't know if maybe because we had a president of the anti-corruption commission yesterday, it's not right that I can also talk to them, but I think it's right that I'm talking and that we're making deals and that they're bringing me up to date with the problems we're facing. Everyone claims that the biggest problem at this time is, of course, this financial spasm and the credit incompetence of the largest bank in Slovenia, this is the Ljubljana Bank. Individuals claim that they have not received any credit on this bank for years and that they must turn to a bank abroad. We owe it and we have to do something. Now it's not even a question of who's gonna do it. It's crucial to me that this solution is good. Whether the government or the National Assembly will do this, listen, it's not that important. Maybe it's for someone, not for me. It's important to me that it's the right solution. I don't care if ownership in this bank is foreign. We must have a controlling share that this bank will still have its seat in Slovenia and that it will perform this function for which it is intended. That's a key question. I don't care who sits in the supervisory board or the bank administration, whether it's a Slovenian or maybe a foreigner. It is crucial to me how a representative of the Supervisory Board will work in the Supervisory Board and how the President of the Administration or members of the Board will run this bank to meet the needs of our economy and citizens and citizens. I listened very carefully to what the minister said. I understood something, perhaps not something, because it was not possible to say everything openly, but enough that I would be able to decide today and vote in favour of this proposal. But I must say, I have listened well to the position of the National Gazette, Mr. Starman. What Mr Starman said is what Slovenia is burdening the Slovenian economy. This time he also said that a lot of small businesses had made wild privatisation. Of course, they made it in the way they made it, more secretly, closed down, bought out all the ones we got – at this point I'm not good at language – but when it came to larger companies, of course, it was more money, and of course, the bank stepped in and, of course, gave funds to the so-called tycoon recklessly. And the consequence of all this is that we're here where we are. And once again, I will, in particular, support the proposal proposed by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Zweglich's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to take a risk, and I'm going to try to slow down a little bit. I proposed a short time ago at a meeting of the Committee on Finance that my colleague, Matthew Franzež, be nominated for the Nobel Prize in Economics. Today I'm surprised he hasn't won that award. Second thing. Mrs. Alenka had a very interesting point of view. Because it primarily dealt with the views of the Slovenian People's Party and not the content of the issue itself. I am quite disappointed because a person from an acquaintance would expect experts to say something more than a quote from the President of the Slovenian People's Party two years ago, but to talk, of course, about alternatives, about different interventions by countries in banks, about what Coco shares mean. No, ma'am, you've spent your time today with passwords on national interest, on homeland ownership and mandates for the sale of state silver. I would also like to see that banks have domestic ownership, but I stress, domestically. So I suggest you give your money, gather your thinkers, recapitalize the bank, set up a capable administration, and you will be emperors of all emperors or Empresses to speak in both sexes. The Slovenian proverb says that "with a foreign... can wave on the nets". Wave to yours, not mine. But you know, please, not mine! And I'm gonna say something else, just for the country, because I'm a farmer and I don't have any economic skills. If I buy a cow, I put it in the barn next to another cow. If they eat the same thing and this cow gives me half as much milk as the other one, I'll get rid of it because it doesn't bring me what I expected. Now tell me what we citizens, a country in all history, have from the New Ljubljana Bank what it has brought us. Or let's just tell her what she took from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Croat. Sorry, I didn't see you. Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Szwiglič, if you would listen to me correctly, you would see that they are from 3 pages, 4 lines of quotations, but I will read again on the next presentation of the opinion. It is nice to say clearly and loudly that as a party you have changed your mind, it is beautiful, but it would probably be right to say the same in an election campaign where you have still convinced people how important national interest is. Fourteen days before our deadline or our search for solutions is completely irresponsible. You're the one who wanted to take power in this country so badly. You have it, save it in a transparent and transparent way. Not under the table, not under the table! By a healthy farm of intelligence – as you often use the term – from my place it seems as if you are working as a pig with fur with this bank and our financial assets – even according to your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Franzege has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u185	Thank you for the second nomination for the Nobel Prize in Economics, Mr Zveglic. However, I think it is essential that we respond to some others in the debate of the uncontained thesis. Look, we all fall together on this thesis that it's enough to secure our interests to keep 25% and one share in the bank. Here's the key mistake. The CRD Directive, adopted in 2007 and also transposed into national legislation in the same year, allows for the last word in certain cases in the assessment of mother-daughter relationships in banking matters to be the key role of the bank regulator or supervisor in the mother country. This means that we are actually transferring control over the largest system bank from the national regulator, namely the Bank of Slovenia, in certain matters to the Belgian monetary authority. This means that these matters will be assessed in the interest of the Belgian monetary system, the banking system and not in the interest of the development and stability of the Slovenian economic system. Here's the greatest ghost. The only thing that guarantees the stability of the banking system is stable state ownership. And I say, the majority state ownership here, where we are, in a direct or indirect proportion of the country, in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank and in the case of the New Maribor Credit Bank, we must maintain this relationship at any cost, because it is fatal that what has happened in the past will not happen in the past, that the national accumulation has been spilling elsewhere. And this was done by all foreign banks present on the Slovenian banking market. This was then prevented by our government from destabilizing the financial system in the country. So please, let's not inherit these myths, see what gives us real power and real influence to maintain the stability of the Slovenian banking system and to use national accumulation to promote economic growth and credit activity at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. However, I would warn you once again that the replica is intended to explain the work in which it was misunderstood and not to reinterpret certain things which were fully understood. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that I agree with your observation, and then – otherwise I do not wish to protest publicly with any procedural proposal – I think it would be good that the President or the Chair is paying attention or paying attention to the fact that in the position of the Group of Members – this has always been parliamentary practice – so far – that there is no attack on other views and that it is spoken then on behalf of the Group of the Universal Slovenia or the world, if you want. I would like a calm performance by the distinguished minister very much, and I would like our debate to continue in this tone. To talk about the banking system that we are rehabilitating, which is actually needed, because it is in intensive care, it is only necessary to realize that we are being listened to by potential investors, that we are also being listened to by those citizens and citizens who have their savings in our banks that we are talking about, most of all NLB and New Credit Bank Maribor, and I think it is not good that we are sending negative brutal signals here if you sell, spend under the table and so on. How am I supposed to feel if he says it, say, recognized or up to a recently recognized expert? I, like the one with the deposit that has its savings, say, in the NLB, if I listen to such debates, it's understandable how we're going to act. And here I really wish we were paying attention in these discussions. Also brutally passing through, when we talk about a decision with a few articles, we are now talking about Bajuk-Shirtz's fiscal reform. This is also unseemly because Dr. Bayuk, former finance minister, is already dead. At the same time, I would just like to remind you that a thousand 700 voters have raised the question of which finance minister was the best in Slovenia so far, of course the current minister has not yet been evaluated, and that is when Dr. Bayuk received 47% of the votes. It's as if I'd opened up Simone Dimic's question right now, and I won't. See, the Slovenian banking system or banking council is Slovenian, typically Slovenian, so specific, it is slightly different. Unlike the rest of Europe, we have a relatively large amount of money to look into in our banks. In fact, this money is not useful to our banks to lend to the economy, so banks need to look for these credit potentials in interbank lending. In doing so, trust is of utmost importance. And that is, of course, this property, this word, which is more than a word in the banking world, in banking transactions of exceptional importance. Why did Nova Slovenija, myself, of course, support the amendment of the Capital Investment Management Act? Why do we support this decision? Because we trust the government more than the AUKN. I'm not talking about it. I'm speaking from experience. When I was on the committee – I think that the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Economy together – highlighted the issue of the Nafta Lendava Group, the AUKN did not answer. Then I sent a public letter, he didn't answer. Look, there's no answer for the AUKN. I don't know who to answer to then. I don't know what's going to happen to the oil group, or I don't want to talk here in public, because it wouldn't be decent for me either. Perhaps more know colleagues from Positive Slovenia who manage this group. But that's why I trust the government more than the AUKN. I am confident that the government will also be successful in recovering this banking system as far as it can be managed successfully. When we talk about national interest – and I conclude with this – my national interest number one is the state of Slovenia. Do not let God have any shareholding company for national interest. Because it can quickly happen to you that the equity company is bankrupting you and then bankrupted your national interest. The State of Slovenia, with all that the country is, with the school system, with the social system, with the health system, and in particular with the freedom of all people who can develop their entrepreneurial and intellectual potentials for the well-being of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u189	Madam Vice-President, allow me to speak first of all with regard to the latest implementation of Mr Horvath. Well, he said that we're being listened to by potential investors, and it's not right for us to talk here as we speak. For God's sake, where else should we speak the truth and warn the government and the ruling coalition of possible mistakes. This is our duty and our right. Besides, I'm sorry the minister's no longer in the hall. I listened very carefully to the Minister's second performance and, unlike the very sceptics, I have a slightly clearer picture today of Secretary of State Krusac on my mother's body. But the Minister's answers still haven't convinced me. That's why I'm asking you to listen to my views. You may be born with another solution for the New Ljubljana Bank, as you suggest in your quest. The picture of the banking system is bad, we are all aware of it, all citizens and citizens certainly know it. As a citizen and as a Member, I am disturbed by the fact that there is still no rehabilitation programme, no rationalisation of operating costs, but despite the losses some have received and still receive high awards. I also wonder what Banka Slovenije has been doing all this time or, rather, what the well-paid employees of Banka Slovenije have been doing – observing and observing today, without a sense of responsibility and without the right solutions for the rehabilitation of the banking system. According to experts, Slovenian banking has 6.4 billion euro of questionable investments – correct me, Mr Minister, if I am wrong – and 2.4 to 2.5 billion euros is inexhaustible investment due to the deterioration of property, securities, Western and non-Western bank guarantees, mainly due to the failure of construction companies. Our two banks account for 1.7 billion unrecoverable investments, again due to the previously mentioned tycoon loans and construction guarantees. We all know that last year, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor seized shares of the church fund Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 which she sold to her management company at the auction, thereby improving their balance sheet and also their blood count. Why not also the New Ljubljana Bank, which has from this title and all the Taiwanese loans of between €1 and €1.5 billion of assets that it has not destroyed or transferred, to improve its balance sheet and thus liquidity. Why doesn't Nova Ljubljanska Bank do this today – Mr Minister, please answer me later – so it would not be necessary to recapitalise and issue Coco bonds that represent, in my personal opinion, only bypass before the final death of the most important system bank in the Republic of Slovenia, the second in the region. The new Ljubljanska Banka is also insolvent because, like all other banks, it buys government bonds, because it is the easiest, the guaranteed profitability of which varies between 7% and 8%, so from left to right the funds are transferred and therefore they do not need to be credited to economies. And it is this flexibility that further increases and prolongs the credit crunch. Well, deny it if I'm wrong, Mr. Secretary. Let me add that Coco bonds are not a solution, even because they represent an obligation of the state and the bank to fulfil the obligations that will only be known to us at the time of issue. And if the obligation is not met, the bank goes by a shortcut into the hands of the CoCo bondholder. As you have explained earlier, Mr Minister, that the cashing or conversion of CoCo bonds into the bank's equity is possible under the condition that the return on those bonds falls below 7 %. And that's a completely realistic option. However, if the bank had cashed out guarantees for the loans that had fallen and rebuffed the shares and other assets of its debtors, it would have improved the balance sheet and liquidity just like the New Credit Bank of Maribor. And don't do that, so I ask again, "Why not?" The ban on buying state bonds would start by re-crediting the Slovenian economy and, consequently, slowly eliminate the credit crunch, which makes our economy soulless and impossible to revive and become competitive in the global market. And that, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Slovenia is the first in the world according to the Global Security Index, so it would be an advantage to take advantage of this, since we are barely 116th in the open for foreign investment and 132nd in the flexibility of employment. The issue of national interest has been misused too often in the past and this abuse has led to overindebted Slovenian economy, with banks under the watchful eye and, of course, the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia playing an important role. And today no one feels responsible. Very interesting! Finally, Minister, allow me, because I have only the hope that you know what you are doing and that you are fully aware of the importance of the New Ljubljana Bank as the largest system bank in the country for the existence and preservation of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the decision on how and how to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. The decree is relatively short, but today we are talking about tax reform, external debt, public debt, poor solutions in the past and so on. After all, we can also start talking about the Slovenian banking system from Nik Kavčič, but there was another country, and this probably will not help you much to find more appropriate solutions. Certainly, it is also very important here in the National Assembly, in my personal opinion, that we listen and not just talk through each other. After all, a lot of new information has been given today, including to me, about how possible recapitalisation will take place, and we are not talking here today. Of course, we can also discuss whether it is healthier to be a vegan or a vegetarian in the context of this subject, but it is likely that this will certainly be of no use to listeners. One thing is certainly important here. This is a decree allowing the Government to recapitalise by taking over management rights from the Capital Investment Management Agency. It's just that it's the solution that can actually be done. In other words, this means that the whole process of this will be under control. The government is responsible to the National Assembly. The government is responsible for all possible and impossible ways known by the Constitution, which the legislation knows to work for the good of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Therefore, it is completely depressed here that the National Assembly will now have no information on what is going on. The National Assembly will certainly have information and, of course, this process will also be transparent. However, I certainly agree that during the discussions, negotiations between future partners cannot be negotiated and debated through newspapers or other media, because this simply weakens the negotiating position of Slovenia and, in fact, makes it worse if you want, even the country and also the potentially poor position of citizens and citizens, if we are talking about it. The second question is, what is the state of our banking system? Our banking system is in bad shape. There's nothing to add here. But there's more to say because today we all talk about what state he's in, more to tell how we're going to save him. And certainly Coco bonds are one of the possible solutions. This is probably a new instrument for us too, although this instrument has already been used in some, to say the great international banks. And of course, here it is absolutely professional to say that this automatic mechanism, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, triggers when capital adequacy falls below 7%, not when profitability falls. You're talking about profitability, profitability has nothing to do with it. However, the capital adequacy of the bank shall be calculated in a certain way. This is a completely professional term, and here we also need to speak professionally to make it clear to viewers and viewers. Of course, today we can talk about today's question about the crucial question that it is a crucial issue of development. However, it is important to ask how Nova Ljubljanska Banka has been operating, if you want, in the last 10 years or, if you want, in the last 20 years, especially how it has been operating in the last three years during the crisis. It works much worse than the rest of the banks, it has, as we've heard, and as statistics show, a loss that I'm going to say is passed on from year to year. Why? In particular, because it has a lot of bad investments and because of the need to reduce the value of these poor investments, this actually indirectly affects capital and needs to be recapitalised. The government has recapitalised this bank for 1.6 billion in recent periods with tax money. Here, of course, we can now calculate how much this is compared to education, compared to kindergartens, compared to the book and so on and so forth. And it's probably here that citizens and citizens can ask themselves, "How long?" And so these Coco bonds give us a temporary option, I'm talking about temporaryity to improve the bank's capital position to achieve adequate capital adequacy, and of course – why? – this is probably not only its purpose, but the purpose of the bank is to operate and operate and carry out its basic business. It is on the one hand to choose deposits and on the other hand to make loans. You're crediting who? Credit the economy. They don't give them today, and I'm guessing that's why they don't, because no one's on the phone. As I know from the Ministry of Finance, there are no phones to give anyone any credit to anyone, even, I don't know, there's no other phones and we just have a credit crunch. When they were recently, six months ago, nine months ago, I'm going to say, they were singing phones, then there was no credit crunch, then they gave themselves credit for various projects. We also know from the public some people who actually phoned and got credit. And that was wrong. And of course, if a foreign owner comes, if an additional foreign owner comes, if we have to here, of course, if we are talking about KBC, this is a system bank, he is a system investor, with the knowledge that he has already brought to the Ljubljana Bank today, most in the field of information technology, it is not a financial investor who will sell the bank in five or seven years' time on one of the world markets and then the other owners will come back. If we're talking about KBC, he's a system owner. Secondly, of course, Mr Frangež – he is not here in the hall – do you think that the Bank of Slovenia today does not control, say, the Hypo Bank, or the Société Générale, or the UniCredit, which is in Ljubljana. Indeed, this is where Mr Frangež is talking about a Belgian regulator and so on, the Belgian Central Bank is in charge of overseeing this bank. It's not like that today. I don't really know what we're talking about here, but it's true that we have a European central bank, and it's true that we also have a European regulator, and of course they also have control, but not control that they should determine who they should give credit to, control that they should determine who is who they can operate with, and who not. So I'm going to say, here's a lot of things spoken that aren't accurate, and of course that's not good. There's also a lot of talk about what's going to happen now. Certainly it is the least that it is, and that is what we want no more credit to be given on the basis of phone calls. In other words, the rehabilitation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor finally took place. Finally. The opposition keeps saying where are the new measures, where is the bank's rehabilitation? Here is the rehabilitation of banks, because here it can be done through the authorities of banks, through the assembly, through the supervisory boards and through the administration of a bank that will be effective, which will work for the benefit of the economy and the population and which will, of course, also provide certain security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han. Mr Dragan Bosic will be next. You want a replica? Here you are, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Vice President. Given that he mentioned me earlier in the debate, Mr. Shircelj [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u194	I just want to remind you, it's not enough that he just mentioned you, please explain the part in which you were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u195	Yes, in the work concerning capital adequacy. If you remember from the tape, I was quoting the Minister's words, and if the Minister misspoke, then so was I. I think I heard the minister say a 7% return. If bonds fall below 7 per cent, then there will be a cashing or change in the capital share. However, as regards capital adequacy, an entity shall be eligible for capital when it has adequate capital in terms of the volume and type of business it carries out and the risks it faces in carrying out such transactions. Capital adequacy can be compared to the investment capacity or with the lending capacity of the company. So, Mr Minister, that there will be no misunderstanding with Mr Shirtzl, between me and you and those who listen to us in this Chamber, I would like you to explain what happens here, if this investment capacity or credit capacity of NLB happens below a certain critical limit, that is to say 7%, then the conversion of Coco bonds into ownership shares of the New Ljubljana Bank. And I don't want to take your time, but please, when you have the chance to explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Then we'll ask the minister to explain things. I propose that Mr Matjaž Han proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What Mr Šircelj said in the end, I am signing. But in order to get to that point, it's going to take some time. I don't know if we are all aware today of how important we are today, even though this decree has only four articles. With this decree today, if we adopt it – and you will probably accept it according to the majority – we will in fact be able to change the economic picture in Slovenia and what is even worse, socially and, if you want, a social picture in Slovenia. This is very dangerous. Why? The first thing I can't trust you is one thing, now all things from AUKN will move on to the government, to that government that, with its work, proved how it can operate, work for citizens and citizens in 2004-2008. That government that actually made the biggest mistake, which concerns me, which triggered all these tycoon purchases and drained this bank because of these tycoon purchases. Of course, no phones were needed at the time, and a meeting was needed at Gregorčič. And that was your mistake. And that is why our economy, ladies and gentlemen, is so indebted that it will take some time to come out of this crisis. Secondly, what I would like to say is that our government was also not the most ideal and that in 2009 it would do much better than it did to devote significantly more resources to the recapitalisation of this bank, replace the previous administration with a better administration than this, and that this administration would feel the economy. And now we had an extreme government under your government that shared money, which is what the politicians said, but under our government we had an administration that I would tell her was a treasurer because they did not understand the economy again and they killed this Slovenian economy to the end. We must take the blame, and you and us, but not by now putting another nail in the coffin of our economy, to sell this bank or two banks for some minimum funds. This is very dangerous. And me, when we all talk about public-private partnership all the time, private capital is good. My dears, private people in Slovenia have shown what they know. Shrotch, Bavčar, Cordège. They were private capitalists, they showed you what they know and what they can do. I'm such a private capitalist and I absolutely don't want capital. The saddest thing is that the government coalition does not allow Members and Members of the National Assembly to be informed of what and how the government will sell and how the government will sell this bank. Only this amendment, the amendment to the amendment of the committee, was put on the home work body so that the parent work body would be informed under what conditions, how it would sell the bank or recapitalize the bank. No, no, no. This amendment didn't go through either, and I don't know why we should give it up. If I am going to vote in favour or if I am going to vote against it, at least I have to have the information, I am not signing the bio-community. So, of course, I'm also for the culprits to find themselves, but if the culprits are red, black, green or yellow, I don't care. The guilty must be found. And I, Roman, have to argue with you. The people's party, which I will say, I appreciate, wrote down a meeting in 2010, Jake was a signatory, and there your president, who is today the president or the minister of the economy, said, "We are in the People's Party against for sale. According to our assessment, this bank must remain in the majority ownership of Slovenia. Why is that important? According to our assessment, such an important bank with such a market share as the Slovenian bank, it actually has an X-ray of the Slovenian economy and...", I will not continue to list. Perhaps now that the Minister of Economy is responsible for the economy, he has not changed his mind that he will not worry about the economy. So, I hope that the Slovenian People's Party will know here that perhaps, as you have seen in the pension reform and where else, this government may also be making this mistake and selling the bank in this way. Mr Minister, we are selling the biggest investment in Slovenia. We do not have a strategy for managing capital investments. This is for my terms and you, who put everything on this coalition contract, which is more than anything else, have written publicly that you will adopt a strategy for managing capital investments. [[...]] You have to see exactly what's to be sold, what's to be bought. You don't have that. But before that, you're selling NLB. Unresponsible. The fact that we received today by Moody's credit rating for KBC is a clear indicator of where we can bring the Slovenian economy through this recapitalisation of NLB. Mr Starman, you were president of the Committee on Finance when they were Taiwanese acquisitions in Slovenia, president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I'm sorry you didn't have these shows back then. Finally, I must replicate to Mr Jurša, who says that it is important that we have a controlling share, everything else is not important. It's fine, if we have a controlling share, that's true, but I have to tell you, if the majority owner is a foreigner, he'll make all the decisions in his home country. They'll be working on how they'll lend, how they'll lend. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, those who know at least a little about the NLB system are already at the forefront of the risks in the NLB Belgian. And interestingly, if he says yes, credit is, if he says no, there's no credit. And with that we can think, we can also exhaust in this way, or we can reduce the balance sheet of this bank. And thinking about bankers and thinking about economists is diametrically the opposite. They are now clearing the balance sheets to have reservations and thereby reducing capital and the economy needs money. So they'll have a hard time coming here together. Finally, the question for Mr Šuštersič, Minister. You said you didn't know by the end of the year whether the annual amount of capital or capital would be more than 7 % or not. And if we read correctly, because it's complicated, if it doesn't, that mechanism will be triggered and the Belgians or any of them will convert these Coco bonds into capital. That means, my dears, that at once the Belgians will have a majority share under control. That is why I am interested in accepting the recapitalisation of the bank, while the Minister of Finance already sees in advance that he probably does not know what will happen by the end of the year. This is very, very dangerous. And this, as we read, is now NLB's primary capital of 5.94%. It is said that these Coco bonds will revive you, it has to be raised to 7% first, and then these Coco bonds, this hybrid can start to work in some way. Please explain this to me, Mr. Secretary. I will not take part in this decision, I will not vote for two reasons, because I think it is too dangerous and in two days I will not take such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I'm sure the Minister will answer us further, but I suggest we move on. Mr. Dragan Bosic, you will not discuss this. Then Mr. Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! As far as Slovenian national interest is concerned – I have been listening to this for the past 20 years, and I have been taking over for it all the time. Slovenian national interest has so far been valid and it is clear that the motorway cross must be built by Slovenian companies. And they did. Slovenian companies are, of course, supposed to remain in Slovenian ownership and Slovenian banks should also remain in Slovenian ownership. And what has proved to be true in the last 20 years? The largest and best construction companies have failed, despite the fact that they have carried out more than well-paid state projects; by the way, building our motorways is among the most expensive, if not even the most expensive. Foreign capital is still feared by Slovenian companies after 20 years as the devil of the cross, although it has been shown in the last 20 years that this is not the wisest not to say wrong. Well, I've already reached our biggest banks, NLB and New KBM. Banks that are bottomless bags, which we have recapitalised several times with tax money. And apparently, according to the opposition, it should continue to cost them as much as it costs. Of course, I must not forget that the positive results of these banks have not yet been met and, in my opinion, we will not, until we have made a significant change, and that is ownership. Let me not forget to mention a bunch of tycoon loans from these banks, which, of course, are the cause of huge losses and a reduction in the value of these banks' capital. However, I must not forget the established responsibility of the banks' management and the lack of supervision by the Bank of Slovenia, which neither I nor the other citizens have yet to see, but should. Due to all these facts, it is necessary to recapitalise the Slovenian banks immediately with capital, including foreign banks, and by no means any more with tax money. However, the state must maintain a share of ownership in banks of 25% plus one share, which is also enshrined in the coalition contract and will be so. And just for the end. What's the real point of good banks? To provide both companies and natural persons with the most favourable financial services, including loans. Are we or will we be in the New Ljubljana Bank and New KBM if you remain in Slovenian ownership? Of course, I will vote in favour of the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. In this particular debate, and perhaps there are a few others that you find that we do not need Slovenian banks to make foreign-owned banks significantly better for Slovenia, I would like to ask you all together why, for example, the Netherlands decided that for almost 14% of the gross social product, it had recapitalised its banks with state money. Switzerland, England for good 8%, Germany for 3% and Slovenia for only 1%, most of which was when we led the government and wanted to actually maintain our national system bank. I ask ministers what will be the consequences for the economy in Slovenia, if our banks, these are Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, lose the status of the system bank. Who are we going to talk to about helping the economy? Are we going to talk in Slovenia or are we going to talk abroad? Who will be our interlocutor to help the economy? The fact that banks are in trouble also comes from what the colleague said, we freely let the biggest construction companies in Slovenia fail because of the fact that they were also in the process of Taiwan's privatisation and we were all satisfied, okay, now let's punish all of this in a way that these companies fail. The coast, the last big company we had in this area, fell apart without the government getting caught up in this problem and said, that's the problem. But all of this has actually weakened our banks, the Ljubljana Bank in particular. And it is very likely that the bank's real capital will fall below 7%, and then this so-called Coco bond, which is to be enforced today by decree, will really go to the ownership of this potential owner coming from Belgium. There's a very high probability of that. When we talk about what the problem is in Slovenia, I must admit that I was extremely pleased today when I listened to the position on behalf of the SDS Group, where it was found that the real problem in Slovenia is the bank debt and the indebtedness of the economy. We have argued this all the time Social Democrats, and three months ago it was then, I must say, the Minister of Finance also shook his hand and said, "This is no problem for us! Why do you even open up bank debt?" This is the biggest problem in Slovenia. But this problem will now be very difficult to solve because we are in the middle or you are in the middle of, of course, I must stress that you have adopted the Public Finance Balance Act, which will reduce economic growth in Slovenia further. And you have already taken one measure that will bring our system banks into an even more difficult situation as they are now. Therefore, I say that the situation will arise when the new owner, the Belgian owner, comes to very cheap banks and, of course, to healthy companies in Slovenia. And at the moment when we lose our system banks, when we lose our largest companies, I ask you what is the point of politics then in Slovenia. What are we gonna decide? And today we're talking about whether we can make any more decisions tomorrow. To talk about the transparency of the government's business and decision-making, I simply cannot trust you for the reason that today we had a law on the market of financial instruments that will, after a reduced procedure, law that we will not have a look again in Slovenia at who owns the shares in companies, who is the shareholder in companies. It will be banned. Today this law has been confirmed by the coalition, and it can go ahead with the reduced procedure. What is the transparency of business? Is that bad if you have an insight into who owns any company? We have the biggest problem in Slovenia right now, not this moment, for quite some time, because our capital has been flowing into various financial havens, and Slovenia has been running out, the economy has been running out. And now we will allow those who have exhausted the economy to hide behind various companies that will be shown as owners in individual companies and, if you want, probably in banks. And once again I ask you, Mr Minister, you have said earlier that there will be investigations in both the NKBM and the New Ljubljana Bank. And I ask you, because you did not take note of the Capital Investment Management Agency's warning if any of the apparent potential criminal acts in these banks in August, when the persecution is no longer possible because it will expire, will you then resign? This is the serious answer that will give us confidence that we are talking in Parliament about trusting the government. I would like to point out if one of the possible crimes, because millions of them have also tried to move away from the NKBM if one of these cases is obsolete, are you prepared to resign then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u203	And for three years we've been alerting these crimes in NKBM, the minister hasn't given up, he hasn't done anything, I'm afraid. I agree with Mr. Webber if you sell the banks, who are you going to talk to about how the economy is going to go? Today you have nothing to talk about, what kind of economy, because it all stands. And why are we in this position? Since you've brought us here for the last three years, you've been so smart for the last three months that if a man didn't know you, he would even buy you. Colleagues and colleagues, Optima Leasing was established in Zagreb in 2005. The co-founder was Goran Crnčević, in 2009, Goran Crnčević bought yachts for 6.3 million and did not give, he got the money, and did not give ownership to Optimo Leasing. From then to 28. 1. 2012 you received 46 notifications about what was going on, in the end, that NLB by appointing Belingar in Optimo Leasing expresses its distrust of the administration, which successfully battles with Croatian influences. The NLB will lose a billion euros in banking transactions. Who or what is responsible for this? President of the Supervisory Board David Benedik, member of the NLB administration, and now I would like to be a new member of the administration in Zagreb, and is a member of the NLB Leasing Board, Štefan Belingar. They would do anything to make a settlement in which this Mr. Crnčević from my country, from my bank, would receive 100 million euros from my taxpayers, 100 million dollars, because the Slovenian bank owed 10 million euros, 21 judgments were received. And I believe that if we support this decree, the Minister will not allow a meeting to take place on the 4th. 7. which would have resolved such an administration, which would have fought against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Replica? Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. I would like to correct Mr Pukšič only so much that, of course, in these three years, as we led the government and were responsible for the government of the Social Democrats, we have not in any way caused bank indebtedness, we have not caused corporate indebtedness, but we have tried to rescue these companies and to save banks. This is all we have done and, of course, we have also come to withdraw the policy from those decisions that have led the banks and the economy to such a situation. The fact that the case did not then expire, that public debt also had to be caused, is also to blame because, to a large extent, referendums were also encouraged at the political level to prevent measures that were necessary for the budgetary picture to begin to improve. Indeed, the referendums have led to a lack of revenue in the budget. That is why we today have the same condition as it is. But, remember, the sin that we came up with is actually the overindebted economy, the banks, and the granting of credits without any criteria. I also agree and commend the measure proposed by the People's Party in the previous mandate that all those who have mismanagement should no longer manage businesses or establish their businesses. May I also say that we persecuted Mr Kramar, who paid a million Euros of prizes – in what mandate was this man's director, the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank? – and we really want to bring him back to this situation, because not only did he cash this million euros, he was the one who also approved a whole range of credits that make businesses in a standstill situation. And that is the problem, and this is what we want to clear up, and here we actually want to warn -- this is the responsibility of all of us today -- that we take these procedures in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u207	Good-bye! According to the ruling, the recapitalisation of NLB, d. d., is complex. The proposal for a decree allows the Government to carry out, where appropriate, all the management acts provided for in Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Capital Investment Management Act. This is in brackets: availability, changes in statutes, increase in core capital or increase in investment. So this is the subject of today’s decree, but this seemingly innocent text hides some traps to which we have not received an answer. This is – firstly, I must say – the main problem I see in Slovenia – the state of the banking system and the related state of the economy. But this coalition took other priorities, so the priorities were to quickly get the ZUJF, the rebalancing and so on. This means that, in the opinion of this Government, the problem of this State is the public sector and not the bank, and the related situation in the economy, particularly in larger companies. So we came into some time-consuming situation, and the Slovenian government has done virtually nothing about banks, even though this should be a priority in our opinion. With regard to the New Bank of Ljubljana, recapitalisation should be addressed faster and more effectively. Now we're looking for a deadline, 30. 6. When we have to accept the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Ljubljana, as instructed by the European regulator, this is EB. And from the minister who was at the hearing, and even later on, vehemently only said that we would no longer recapitalise from the taxpayer's money, but that we had other solutions, we have not actually heard of any other solutions, as well as the so-called famous Coco bonds. Well, if I'm a little naughty, I hope that Coco gives you a better association with Coco Chanel than Coco Bill, and I hope those Coco Bonds don't end up like Coco Bill did. However, there is a certain problem here that has already been discussed and I would not repeat it. Actually, because of the Coco bonds, there's not going to be any fresh capital in the banks. This means that there will still be a credit crunch, the banks will not be liquidity-free any more, but only with some financial spells, so-called recapitalisation, without interfering with the budget lines. In view of this, the government would now, as Mr Weber has already said, have only thrown 1 per cent of gross social product into banks' rehabilitation, which is minimal compared to the other countries, but could, of course, also turn its deposits into equity, only in this case should it come back to this Parliament for support, or should come with a budget rebalancing. So these are also some of the solutions, but for now we are only talking about these famous Coco bonds, which, given the state of our own Ljubljana Bank, do not actually mean some sort of bailout before, in my opinion, the approaching financial disaster, but only some artificial financial instrument, which is actually why the whole world is in crisis today. It was these financial instruments, these financial spells that we received from elsewhere, that caused, because there was no fresh money, there was no economic growth, that there was a crisis in which we were. So personally, I don't think these bonds are the solution, but we're just going to have an additional problem. Above all, it will be practical to take over this bank without any one euro investing in the Ljubljana Bank. The ownership structure will change, as we can say today that we are unlikely to provide capital adequacy by the end of the year, especially because we have some of the bank's inherited investments that are now going to explode in the coming months. And if I finally ask myself why we're doing this, why we don't find any other things, the answer would probably be soon to find something on one side of this hall, and we'll see how certain seats will be emptied in the coming months, and we'll be able to track through the night where some of them got new well-paid jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Preseknik said the biggest Slovenian bank is in serious trouble. "Slovenia" is only conditional, and we are all in serious trouble, and I am sure of that. It's hard to argue, but it's hard to decide, because we actually don't have enough data. Therefore, I believe that similar topics would be good at least on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy if there were some data to be kept secret, to be dealt with in a closed session or at a session of Parliament. Of course, if the state has now invested 1.6 billion and the estimated value of the assets is only 500 million more at this point, the question is how good the hosts have been in the past. Here I would like to remember when we all beat each other's chests, how good we've done for 20 years, remember this, at any time and at any time, no one can claim that he's done very well, except for rare exceptions. Except for rare exceptions. Today, most of the debate is about whether the Government should have these powers to directly intervene in banks, in the Public Procurement Agency and so on. The opinion of some is that yes, some are not. I believe that the government has a responsibility to the government, and if it wants to rule, it has to have full powers of direct intervention in those areas for which it is responsible, including the banks. We haven't called anyone to account in the past, and we probably won't until this moment, because there was nowhere to locate who was responsible. When I made a mistake in the company, it was clear that I had all the consequences, financial, public, media and so on. Tell me who we're going to have for the next three months in public debate by the most responsible people and they're going to point to us because they've made a hundred- and a million-million-dollar losses in banks. No one. Because I'm very explicit, I want the government to have direct intervention. Then we can also demand responsibility from her. The government must rule, not as I read in a newspaper the other day: Who rules? If the Government is to exercise its function of rule, it must have the authority to do so, it must have mechanisms. And he must have responsibility. I remember when the new law on municipalities or jurisdiction of mayors, when the mayors received more powers, was also more responsible, there was more efficiency and, of course, things got better. Otherwise, I think that these hybrid instruments are not money, that they won't bring us much, that we're all in debt too much and that if we gave all our debts together all the money, the provisions are significantly more than money. I also follow here that the NCBs and many European banks have already lowered their ratings again. So, even if the KBC takes over the Ljubljana Bank, in a little while the KBC will take over some Russian bank and so on. So the question is, what's going to happen? To conclude, the Director of Slovenia, d. d., is the President of the Government. Let us give him all the authority to do so, and then let us also demand responsibility. The director of the company, of course, has his assistants, these are ministers, of course, who will do so. And I wouldn't suggest to anyone that I give it to them, because I gave it to them, and now I have problems. It's not good to give Bianca a personal menu, and the bank's directors are going to give up the management and responsibility boards, and then they're going to behave differently. For the time being, only the directors of small private companies are called to account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bikar. You won't, you're giving up? Then it's mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Mr Vogrin, I hope that this company, I don't know, I think you said Slovenia, d. d., led by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša will not end up in bankruptcy, because then I don't know what else we can do. What you are doing today is far from the rehabilitation of our banks, Mr Shircelj has mentioned it. If, as you say, such a simple financial instrument were to be used to rehabilitate our banks, I would also be very happy. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, mainly from the Slovenian People's Party, why are you so afraid of your past words? I don't know, I'm behind what I'm saying, and there's a lot of people who can use my words. But I believe it hurts if you know what you're saying once and what you're doing today. I would like only one clear answer, Mr. Minister: How will the ownership structure of the New Ljubljana Bank be changed in a very short, eloquent manner in a month, to say no until 30 June? In view of everything, it will have to be because otherwise it will not work, otherwise today we or today you will suck at confirming the law with this new derivative financial instrument. Here I would ask a very clear answer that we will no longer wander in the dark. Because what happened on the Finance Committee, where we really didn't get any, but just no answer, was sad if it wasn't for our country, I'd say funny, but it was very sad for me. Perhaps the debate would be significantly different if, as you have explained today, Tuesday was explained, but unfortunately that is the case. Mr. Pukšič mentioned all past sins, we agree, but have you already demanded any responsibility? None, so far none. One more thing, even this maneuver, is what I call it, which you're about to do, it's not going to fix this mistake. No, I'm afraid not. Errors have been made without correction, only responsibility can be established. That's a fact. And today we would like to tell you just this, at least in Positive Slovenia, that if we are already going to sell assets, to do so in a transparent way, let us not even say how much, at what cost, and at whom will we sell our largest bank. However, Mr. Starman says that the National Assembly does not need to know any more because we will read everything in the newspaper. I just hope to buy the paper that day, because if not, I won't know when, how much, and who our biggest bank was sold to. It doesn't freeze me like Mr. Starman does, but I'm scared, but I'm really scared when I see what you're doing with our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Please, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u213	Replica, yes. Thank you so much for the replica. Mrs Alenka Bratušek, my name has been mentioned, that this is not the rehabilitation of banks and so on. I have to explain this to you. This is an initial measure to rehabilitate banks, that's what needs to be done in order to get bank recovery started. In fact, the rehabilitation of banks will also, of course, involve the clearing of balance sheets, and of course, it will also be necessary to manage, in any way, so-called bad investments or poor loans or some write-offs, or some of them to reduce value and so on. Of course, much will also have to be done in the area of internal organisation, in the area of efficiency, in the area of costs and so on. That's a start. The problem or problem of our banks is that to date no decision has been taken and no decision has been taken. This government has begun its decisions. First of all, in the area of public sector costs, now in the area of competitiveness and what is also written in the programme, in the area of bank recovery. And this is the beginning, but this is not the end, and this is an important act. And one more thing, I don't think there's any covert scenarios, there's no selling under the table. We'll hear what the minister says, whether or not it goes under the table. You have the right to doubt, I have the right to believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u215	Good day to you all! Perhaps before I begin to discuss that I have recently received two SMS messages from two of my constituents who said that today, when they are listening to this debate in Parliament, when there is talk about Coco bonds and I do not know what else that they do not understand and if we can talk in Parliament a little bit more domestically, that even simple people would understand something more that we will not speak so much in the ciphers. That is why I will apologize to my fellow Members and to all those who have master's and doctor's degrees in the field of economics if I try or try to do something a little more domestically to explain that they will not be angry or look at me badly. The Slovenian banking system is sick, about it, I mean, we all agree together and we know this for a very long time. Loans to the economy are shrinking dramatically, I have prepared here a graph where it is well seen that since 2008, bank loans to the economy have decreased dramatically. This is why we use the name of the credit crunch, which is one of the indicators that says that our banking system is sick. Then another thing that speaks of the disease of our system is the inability to repay these loans that companies have rented from individual banks. And if you look at the percentage of bad bank claims on banks in European countries, you can also see in such graphs that Slovenia is at an infamous summit. There's Greece behind us and there's two other countries, we're here somewhere. In short, this graph also shows that what I'm saying is kind of holding. What's the credit crunch problem? The economy, companies for their ideas, simply need money for their projects to realize them. If they don't have the money, they can't do it, but if they don't, there's no jobs. Without jobs, of course, he has not paid into the state budget and this cycle of economic crises can be very simple and is, for example, an essential problem of our credit crunch. The inability to repay credits – this is, of course, our banks' best efforts. Individual companies can no longer pay for this and here is the very important capital adequacy of this bank, which we have talked about today, and many who listen to us may not know what it is. I went to look at the definition of what it is, namely, the bank's capital is that part of the bank's balance sheet that covers unexpected losses. This means that the bank must have some part of the capital to cover the part where someone simply can't pay once the loan he's hired. And the New Bank of Ljubljana was charged, among other things, to improve this capital adequacy and requires EUR 400 million. At least that's what it said. Clearly, this government must do something. And here we have two variants. One option is recapitalisation from the state budget and the other is different financial instruments, one of which is also the so-called Coco bond. If we decide to recapitalise the bank from the state budget, please let us all say where this money is from, that 400 million euros. Remember the effort and the effort we made in getting about 500 million money there or saving at the ZUJF. At this point, I just can't imagine how to secure this money from the budget. The effects of saving our banking system are these: if we give up the State budget to recapitalise it, the country's share in the New Ljubljana Bank will logically increase, if I give it as an example, and, on the other hand, if we use any other option, this share of the State in the New Ljubljana Bank may be reduced. And then, as always in Slovenia, there will be a famous word of national interest. Is it in the national interest that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank is owned by the State and is it majority owned or not? And in this there are broad and very extensive stories about what is and what is not. I will dare say that in Slovenia the expression of national interest is very often used, very easily used by those who wanted to preserve and defend the former monopolies and privileges. When someone wanted to keep something, you had one monopoly to fight, keep it to yourself, started talking about Slovenian national interest. Let's just go look at cases in Slovenian history and see how these things stand. Personally, it is the only national interest for me to work for the good of the countries. And because it's in the best interests of the country, it's in the national interest. In the national interest, NLB can also sell to some foreigners if this is good for Slovenia and if this means that the bank will operate much better than it does now. And I'm going to show you again some graph that I think was published by the Finance Officer, where you can see a nice overview of banks operating in Slovenia, how they were operating in, I think, in 2011, what profits, what losses they were making and how well you can see that those banks that were making big losses and are marked with red on this page are more or less state-owned, and these banks, on this side marked with blue, were making profits. It is clear that our commitment, as well as the commitment of the coalition treaty, to which much has been referred today, is that the State retains at least a controlling share in NLB, that is 25% plus one share. It's all a matter of debate, of an anecdotes, and if it means for the Slovenian banking system to work better, to serve the economy more, then I have no fear, no fear, even if [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. [[He's not here.]] Then it's up to you, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! Who's the credit card incompetent? Banks or companies? Or the color? And my question is, will NLB and NLB be able to do credit from here on out? And my question is, is this an NLB-plus-NKB rehabilitation, as some say. And my question is whether this is a national interest. That's not what we were talking about. We in the National Assembly, where we should talk about what our national interest is, have not spoken. And that's bad for the whole thing. It is also bad that we are doing this in an emergency session because we were unable to agree with anyone on what was really going on. There was nothing we could do because everything was going as urgently as it really was urgent. But something important, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is a difficult one, an economic situation, a political one, a social one, and our question is whether we can come to a common solution, a consensus, a less bad solution, or whether we can find a common path – opposition and position. We could not find these paths because no one listened to us or asked us and did not accept our proposals. People, of course, have different opinions, writings and everything they do, but they have no information. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the information to be given. Excuse me, the purchase that the tycoons have also paid, and I do not agree with them, of course, has been received by the state, the state budget. And we spent this purchase wrong. And here's the basic sin. Instead of using it for general consumption, we could use it for investment, for investment, for what really needed to be done, which would be really good. But why aren't we talking about the Icelandic model? Does anyone speak or write about the Icelandic model where the main banks nationalized? The politicians responsible for this, they gave in to the courts, they didn't repay the debts, they set up the human assembly, so to speak, it was a revolution against the authorities and those who created the current crisis. That is what we will have to do, and that is what we should do at this point, and especially work together for a common solution. And for this joint solution we have not tried, we have not been able to find it, as perhaps not before in the law on Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u219	Hello, everyone! I'll be brief. The Slovenian banking system is really sick, and we are also finding that we are not economists and not financiers. We have before us a proposal for a decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the NLB, which first sets out its four articles how to manage, manage and amend its statutes. Of course, this decree then applies to the functioning of the government in its own way. The respected minister, with great knowledge, gave everything we needed, but the ones we listened to, despite the great theoretical knowledge, we did not understand everything. Whether he speaks so quietly that we don't want to hear it, or he doesn't want to explain certain things to those who aren't economists. I find that the role of Parliament is really formal, flawed, unconstructive, and if we do so, I believe, as Mr Bučar said a little while longer, but we will not need Parliament and probably countries. In the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, we see that everything that is regulated is dealt with by individual stakeholders. It is written here that the National Assembly notes that the successful implementation of the recapitalisation of NLB in 2012 is crucial for the financial consolidation programme in the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly doesn't know anything yet. We got the proposal, but we haven't found anything yet, so what's written doesn't seem right to me. In my own name and on behalf of Positive Slovenia, I cannot decide on state property, which is state property and of all people. The government has not given sufficient clarification to work on such matters that are very important quickly. After a quick procedure, big things really shouldn't happen. Why? Here, individuals talk a lot about television and their own interests. As long as it is the individual's own interest over the country's interests, we will have great problems. That was really a picture of the last 20 years. People don't believe us. Parliament is formal, everything we say is why we speak. to be visible to me, but decisions are made by the number of people who vote. And please, let's make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sasha Kos, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! We've been listening to things, so to speak, theoretically, we know how and what. I'd just like to point out something. In fact, I've been through everything against the sale of property. However it is taken, but when you are no longer master of anything, you cannot rule anything, and of course that means disaster for Slovenia. Certain things, if we go back when there was SDK, were actually a great possibility that the matter could be controlled. Later, when this was over, you know what was going on. And that way, we'll end up completely destitute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Slovenian banking system is dependent on the economy. As the banking system is destined for the economy, the economy is also destined for the banking system. The balance sheet of the banking system in Slovenia says we have a balance sheet of about 50 billion. Of this, we have in the assets of bank loans to the economy or to non-financial corporations 19 billion, to households 8.5 billion. On the other hand, it is a liability that we have bank liabilities to non-financial corporations of 3.9 billion, these are investments in the bank or banks owed to non-financial corporations and to households of 14.5 billion. The first thing I said in the asset above is that I apologized for how fatefully connected the economy with the banking system is, and in the liabilities, how much money we have at our disposal, which could probably be motivated by economic development in Slovenia. This operation with the debt equity hybrid document of the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank does not mean much, but it is a temporary solution that is likely to increase the financial stability of our banking system, which is likely to increase the rating to obtain cheaper credits and confidence and to move probably financial external partners or stakeholders. The operation bond itself will only improve the capital structure from 6 to 7, it must first come from 7 to 9% and this debt document will become the equity document when the trigger triggers when the capital adequacy is below 7%. This does not mean much for the banking system, since it is likely to have to be recapitalised with fresh capital. If we have 50 billion balance sheet sums of the entire banking system in Slovenia and 6 billion investments that are problematic, then it is very difficult. The new Ljubljana Bank is participating with 38%, which is said to have a balance sheet of about 18 billion there, and in order to achieve capital adequacy, it is actually necessary to recapitalise the bank for 500 million. But I am afraid that we also have about 2 billion bad investments, and my opinion is, modestly, because I am not a financier, I am a technician, if we really wanted to solve the economy and the banking system today, we would need money of 10 billion, that is 6 billion for poor investments, 4 billion for new investments and incentives to the economy to launch infrastructure projects, those projects in good companies that are now able to export to foreign markets, have competitive products, have products at a very high technological level, but do not have money for revolving resources to expand their production, let alone to introduce new products. The banking system is in fact very fatefully linked to the economic system. I think the government should deal with these two problems together. If you solve only a banking problem, a credit crunch or whatever it is called, then another major problem will arise — it will be an economic problem. It's gonna get a lot worse here. When this starts to collapse, everything comes to fruition — out of the unemployed, out of the money for social security, road workers, and so on. I would therefore ask you not to solve this problem so selectively in Slovenia. Once again, both of you are fatefully connected. Today, the economy is extremely difficult. If you don't know the picture, I'll tell you that you can't get more than 30 to 40 percent for good projects with a full guarantee of money so you can make an investment. Banks are really short of money, they're in a jam, they don't have credit money, they save their skin. Payment of syndicated loans will be maximum in 2014. The second year is also much to pay off abroad, and if banks just watch how they save their skin, it will be harder for the economy every month, every six months. This problem, however, will come to the National Assembly, and then we will find it more difficult to resolve this problem. I have more things, but for once, I would ask you to look at this problem together: the economy and the banking system. However, what is happening around this Coco bond, whatever we call it, is a later debt on the ownership hybrid document, because otherwise you cannot recapitalise the bank under the existing economic law because it is not able to raise that capital, conditional capital. I think it's a temporary solution that you'll probably do it with the deposit you have in the bank if that happens. You don't have another solution. Last time, Banka Slovenija said that she had more solutions, this is probably her proposal, and that the Ministry only picked up this proposal, although they said they had other solutions that were different, perhaps more strategic. So in the future, I would ask for more information, maybe some of us will be able to help, because the last time on the parental committee, I have to say that it was really so devastating, so sad, I imagined that if I sat on the other side, the surgeons would ask me how to operate, I don't know, a vein or something, but I'm a machineman, I'd even climb under the table. Give us second time more competent people for such things, today your minister has told us a lot more than the last time we sat together for six or eight hours and ended up arguing or negotiating and together looking for a story that we couldn't put together. And we still don't really know what this property is all about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek would be next on the agenda of the debaters. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u225	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. All in attendance, all in attendance! One of the Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia repeatedly reiterates that the government does not have a strategy to work under the table. The government has a strategy and it doesn't work under the table. By adopting the balance and the ZUJF, we have set conditions and starting points for economic growth and have adopted changes in tax legislation to increase competitiveness and economic growth. The start-up of the economy requires the removal of the credit crunch in order for the banking sector to be able to lend to the economy. However, in order for the banking sector to be able to lend to the economy, it is imperative that banks be rehabilitated in order to be capital-appropriate, they need to be recapitalised. Logic. Therefore, increase core capital in one of the possible ways of recapitalisation under the laws governing companies and banking. However, the government's priority is to recapitalise banks with private capital. The previous recapitalisation of the country was seen by the European Commission as unlawful State aid. Since the previous government has not been successful in this area, on the contrary, it has been unreasonablely in charge of buying social peace and bringing Slovenia into the state in which we are today, it is necessary to approach resolution immediately. The AUKN, set up by the previous government, should draw up a capital investment management strategy and have not done its tasks to date. The recapitalisation of the bank is necessary for the financial consolidation programme in Slovenia. The government has opted for one of the legal solutions for recapitalisation by issuing a hybrid loan — conditionally replacing the so-called Coco bonds. This is a debt instrument that regulators, as well as the European Banking Agency, consider to be the most qualitative form of increasing the bank's core capital. Bonds are an alternative to regular recapitalisation of banks. Even the professional public in Slovenia, bankers, we heard Mr Bož Jašovic yesterday, agree that this is a good solution. The purpose of issuing shares is to increase the bank's capital power. The more stable the bank is, the cheaper it can be in debt abroad, and this also means more available resources for customers. And that's the point. It is important to stress that the owners of the so-called Coco bonds will not have special tax exemptions. Today we have heard and received assurances from the Minister of Finance – I have heard it clearly, he has spoken loudly enough – that issuing conditionally interchangeable obligations does not mean an increase in public debt, that does not mean an increase in the deficit, that NLB remains a Slovenian and not a branch of another foreign bank, that a very careful review of the bank is currently taking place and is being imposed on new bank supervisors, that they also find responsibility for bad loans, that CoCo bonds are a temporary solution and that the prospectus specifies and accurately provides for the conversion mechanism set by the European Banking Agency, when and under what conditions Coco bonds are converted into ordinary shares. I am confident that the government will treat investment as a good economy transparent and that the price achieved in the given situation will be good and fair and, above all, that the government will achieve maximum benefits for taxpayers and will establish a long-term, stable and strong financial system to be capital-appropriate and to service the economy, thereby allowing them conditions for economic growth. That's why I'm going to support the motion for a ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u226	Mrs. Bratusek, would you like a replica? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u227	The honourable Member, the Government, if it has a strategy, has it in the drawer or under the table. We have not seen the capital investment management strategy to be brought into the National Assembly. I have been talking about this strategy, and I am talking about this strategy all the time. We haven't seen this strategy, which means it's not there for us. The government can have it, its own way, and we can see it. Today NLB, NKBM, maybe something else tomorrow. This strategy was not in the National Assembly and we do not have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much for explaining. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. The following is Mrs Marija Plevčak and then Mrs Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u229	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since there is no Minister, I welcome his co-worker; the Minister also has biological needs, and I understand that he cannot be in the Chamber all day. Of course, he also has no pleasant duty or assignment in these times, in these months, for finding solutions to our financial and banking system is Sisyphus’ work, certainly. So much so that serious people are afraid of how we're going to save this boat that they're guilty of, I don't think there's any direct culprits or direct robbers in here, thieves who caused the robbery in the banking system. Look, I'm a patriot myself, and I've always been interested in that real, authentic national interest. However, this national interest has also been crippled by the policy and financial oligarchy and the capital oligarchy in the past. I am not sure if most Slovenians still have a clear picture of what this authentic national interest is. In the area of banking and bank rehabilitation, citizens and taxpayers have done everything policy has ordered them to do so far. And we tried everything. It has always been shown that they are the best solutions, but unfortunately the capital, the finance from the management of this country, has slipped out. Now we have a debt to pay. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, whatever solution there is, I am not saying that it will be optimal, but those that we have now and you have – the political option that has been in power for most of the time – have not been successful. I must say that I am happy today and that I will even commend the Social Democrats, who today recognize and demand that they go to the courts responsible for asking very seriously the Minister what will happen if the crimes are outdated by August. I'll damn my government myself if that happens. And I commend you for being aware that it was wrong and even though the former Prime Minister is sitting here, I know that he is not personally guilty, subjective, and that he is probably interested and that we are all interested in those who have committed thievery coming before the courts in time. That it will not be in this area as it is in war crimes, which we know have occurred and the criminals are nowhere. All of this has serious consequences in banking as well. Because they've never been punished by those who caused the crime. That is why I accept and welcome this decree and this solution, which bears a huge responsibility to the government. But when the government enters into force in one day, if we vote on it, it must act from tomorrow. That not all those who committed thieving would slip away, as had happened in the past when it was recuperated. Some went to LHB Leasing in Frankfurt and paid a hundred million prizes there, and to other branches, to New York, we've already closed all of that. Now it's the hottest Optima Leasing, which has already been mentioned here. In fact, we have very solid information that the management of the Ljubljana Bank wants to set up others who will slip away and work for the benefit of Croatia and will again do hundreds of million damage, but this administration, which is fighting for Slovenian interest, has no support for the administration of the Ljubljana Bank. And the government, I hope, will prevent it from sweeping those that need to be swept away. Let tomorrow's courts and prosecutors enforce the reverse burden law. To protect certain property by means of confiscation under the law. When I say that I am glad that you admit that, for example, there have been crimes at the Maribor bank, I must say that you are giving me the right, because Minister Križanič, as soon as he appointed Mr. Toplek as Chairman of the Supervisory Council, although he was your candidate in the elections, has repeatedly warned that the wolves cannot protect the sheep because they will be eaten. And the Maribor bank is proof that the wolf is still using others to devour the sheep. And I'm pleased that you've come to realize that it's not possible to defend it with such a thing. I have an experience when there was $150 million left of Kidric's in 98 years, and that was the difference, and I asked Minister Dragonjo about that speaker out loud, and they didn't act. They didn't act. And these men and such are now franticly powerful. Cheap money can buy a lot of things. With cheap money, they'll try to buy our government's officials. They will try, and therefore I tell our government that it must choose carefully, with whom it will work and take action immediately. The minister said earlier that a thorough examination was being carried out. And he also said that we had a lot of episodes where administrations didn't take part in a careful review. I couldn't agree more. And these various audits were quite a farce, even when I used to mention the Talum. While I was there, the audits were carried out on the rural tourism of Emeršič on the border between Slovenia and Croatia. That's where the people for Toplek had to carry the reports that were lined up. And then he bragged about it. That's why it wasn't 150 million. And that is how audits are still being carried out, and I hope that the Ministry has chosen an auditor who is truly independent, who is not in the clutches of this financial oligarchy. Otherwise, it is necessary to suspend and give the new auditor in order to ensure that in this audit, in this careful review, as I mentioned earlier, this Optima has shown in the right way and that they will no longer put in the personnel that will be rehabilitating and concealing, and those who are trying to protect our Slovenian interest will be eliminated. I hope something happens. For this reason, I think that today is an opportunity for one of you to claim that there is no strategy, that we can commit the government to take responsibility and exercise responsibility. And, of course, we will rightly hold to her word and watch her act. However, it is difficult to deal with these times. The financial oligarchy is so strong, it won't give up. Like I said before, something has to be seized. But we will confiscate the change because the silent owners of the silent owners are today's financial oligarchs. And it's a long way to get to their real acquisitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, will you take your time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u231	Thank you. I ask the Minister, stating that these chicken bonds are a temporary solution, what by its definition is temporary, what is the time range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Patricia Schulin. Mr. Roman Jakič will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u233	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Today's extensive, long debate is more than obviously necessary to dispel as many doubts as possible about this recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, which is the next item in today's agenda. In fact, we all know that in times of economic crisis, our economy has also shown all its weaknesses and in this regard our banks, not only ours but also Europeans. Thus, our country has problems with indebtedness and, as a result, with the acquisition of resources. But banks can't support our economy in the same way as they are. And it is here that we are all trapped together in this spiral – what our national interest is, what it is, what it is worth and what it actually serves us. On the Committee on Finance and even today, I have heard some about this silver, and I am afraid we can no longer talk about this silver. I'm afraid that's turning into old iron. And if we want to make money again, we'll all have to do our best together. We also know that, in the face of such a major economic crisis, the insolvency of the bank would be an even greater crisis, which none of us want. However, the country wants to maintain 25% plus one share in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the other owners are not limited to the size of their shares. I myself will support this decision on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank, as it will allow for the rapid implementation of procedures relating to the urgent recapitalisation of the bank by the government. I myself understand the opposition to reducing the country's shares in banks rather than defending those who control or want to control most of our Slovenian economy through banks. I must also say that it is not true that the Secretary of State at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy responded only by saying 'I don't know, I can't tell you'. Yes, he also said this several times, but if you look at the tapegram of the session, I, if we forgot what he was saying, explained also that the priority of the State is recapitalisation with private capital and that the government has already approached this problem in February, that negotiations are under way and that there is a careful review in the New Bank of Ljubljana. And this was confirmed today by the finance minister, who said that in the past the negotiations had stopped at the point when the information came to the public. These clarifications by the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance are clear to me personally. Finally, the Minister of Finance is obliged to provide these explanations. And if I can assess what I see, then I must say that the current finance minister, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, is professional, clear and knows what he is doing. However, I am extremely pleased that we are calling here in Parliament at the responsibility that the government has decided to investigate or identify the responsibility of those who have brought the New Ljubljana Bank into the current situation, namely, the President of the Boards, members of the Boards of Supervisors, and finally the audit companies, if they have given a positive opinion in the operations of these banks, and not least those who have obtained headless borrowing of credits that they already knew they would not return because their operations were not able to do so. I also strongly hope that our Slovenian public too, with this requirement for responsibility, is serious. I hope that it will not happen as it did a few years ago in Goriška when the then President of the Management Board of Hit was legally convicted of his actions. We all know which one. Signs were then collected in Goriška for the exemption of this gentleman, who was legally convicted. I hope that this consciousness of ours has progressed, that these values of ours have been clarified, and that no one will be allowed to do so again. I am saddened, however, by the Commission's information to prevent and detect corruption that out of the six crimes it has committed itself, two are somehow exempt or there are only six. It is also unlikely that there is much need to stress that banks are losing out on these bad claims, that is to say with loans that will no longer return. In my previous work, I myself observed from the balance sheets of companies how these were over-indebted or their entire assets had been leased — to the last table in the company. How could they afford that? In my opinion, someone made it possible for them and, on the other hand, smaller credit companies could not get credit for these. Also, these signs of sales under the table are groundless on the one hand. I think the credits have been meeting under the table so far. Even when you buy something and don't pay subcontractors, I wonder where the responsibility is. They got credit for their business, and they didn't pay their subcontractors. But we also know from all our history that those who lose privileges struggle hard for change. This talk about the sale of the bank has been denied several times by the finance minister, even today. And I just hope that we all finally understood that today. Banks don't sell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Jakič's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u235	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I remember a time when this country, without offense, Comrade Pahor, was led by the best Prime Minister – the late Dr. Janez Drnovšek. I remember the times when the finance ministry led Dr. Mencinger, and I remember the times when I was the youngest member of this National Assembly, when they tried to tell me and answer the question of what we can or must do in this country, we want or what good it is for the country to privatise or what state assets we can sell, sell back, which we don't. Of course, at that time, it was also a question of what the European Commission would say about what part, the segment of the social property we wanted to privatize, and at that time the political decision was consciously a political decision, despite the opposition and criticisms of the European Commission, that we decided not to sell certain financial institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and certain energy institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. I am talking, of course, about insurance, financial institutions such as Triglav, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, New Bank of Maribor. I even remember that this country dismissed the legendary Dr. Sacks, who came with the privatisation model – which is now, I must say, the model of these neoliberals, who are ruling from the National List, and we dismissed him and said that this system of complete privatisation, to put everyone on the market, we do not need and we have Mr. Sacks with an appropriate payment, I think that at the time 400 thousand dollars, we canceled and we sent him back to Latin America and we carried out our model of privatisation, which was good for these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, without a shock of therapy that allowed in some way through the financial benefits that people participated in the privatisation of some companies. What are we doing today? Today we are really giving the government a blank menu to sell the largest financial institution or one of the largest if, of course, I also place the Insurance Company Triglav alongside the new Ljubljana Bank, we give the Bianca menu to the Government. Not only do we give a blank view, but we also allow the government to change the ownership structure of the New Ljubljana Bank under the financial instrument table. And in fact, what my colleague Bratušek said, tomorrow we will have to look citizens and citizens in the eye and tell them why we did it, why we did it, why under the table, through the eyes of the public, without transparent procedure, we sold out our largest bank, and at the same time tell them why we all, all political parties in this national assembly, strongly opposed it a year ago, and today we help to dispossess our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And these gentlemen, Dr. Drnovšek, and Dr. Mencinger, who was at the time, told me or taught me that the New Ljubljana Bank is the blood system of the Slovenian economy. Whoever we sell this blood system of the Slovenian economy will be the owner, controller and supervisor of this blood system. That is why I cannot do this, and also because of the commitments I have made to these people, I cannot support them. There are financial institutions that can't and can't just sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u236	Now we have some cancellations here again and some missing Members and Members, Mrs Marjane Kotnik is not here, and I don't see Mr Jožet Tank, either, mag. Jane Jenko, mag. Mark Potočnik and the minister are obviously not back yet, but we do have a government representative. I'm sorry, you're not written as that government representative who can have a word in plenary. I now ask you, Members and Members, in particular from the point of view of the Minister's presence, because a few questions have been raised, I suppose we would like to obtain these answers and in this moment that the Minister returns, as chairman, I am adjourning the meeting in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u237	I suggest to my colleagues that we proceed with the adjourned meeting. The ones we've been waiting for, we have here, the Minister of Finance, who will answer some questions, including a colleague from the technical service, so that we can start. Minister, please, I give you my word right away.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u238	Dear Members and Members! First of all, I apologize for not being in the hall all the time to listen to questions and discussions. Ministers also sometimes have some biological or work-related, urgent things. However, a colleague from the Ministry accompanied the debate. I hope that I will succeed in the main things that you have highlighted, even to answer, but if not, there may also be another question. Maybe I'd start off on the list first, like I've got things on record. There's been a lot of talk about today's change in Moody's credit rating. I would like to say that it was not a single change in the assessment of one particular bank, but it was a general reduction in the rating of a large number of banks in several countries: France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands. The credit ratings have also been reduced to banks that have so far been evaluated with three As, such as Rabobank is one of them, and as the main reason, however, is mentioned for this overall reduction as usual when it comes to overall credit ratings reduction, the deterioration of the financial situation in the euro area and, of course, the risks associated with the euro area. What you said about the bank's cap is true has an investment in Hungary. Its investment in Hungary is also a good example of how KBC knows a bank that is in trouble, but improves, of course the location as such a risk. The same applies to banks in Ireland. Secondly, there were quite a few debates, such as the issue raised from the point of view of control. As long as the bank is established in Slovenia, control is mainly Slovenia. This scenario, which has been discussed years ago by the Belgian supervisor to impose any measures on the New Ljubljana Bank, as we understand it, is not true. As long as it is a bank based in Slovenia, 25% of ownership allows us to ensure exactly this, but otherwise it is in time, I think it is now 7.8 years since these arguments became very loud in Slovenia, in the meantime a lot has happened. For example, a European banking supervisor has been established, which sets the conditions uniformly, includes banks in these burden tests, and also now the European Banking Supervisor will tell us whether we have done enough to ensure the stability of these banks, not Slovenia, nor Belgium. It is true, however, that through a Slovenian supervisor, through the Bank of Slovenia, we check the appropriateness of the measures we plan and communicate through them with the European Supervisor. That is true, so here I do not think there is any argument that we should not release the ownership stake up to 25%. By the way, if this decree is to be adopted today, in its constituent part, it is said in the annex to the decree that the state share must remain at least 25% and 1 share, that is to say that this is no longer left to the government, as this will also put the state assembly in place for it. That I won't be running out of time. As regards how much has been invested in the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia or elsewhere, it is necessary to look at everything that has been invested in order to save banks. Before the financial crisis, Slovenian banks owed about 4 billion abroad. After one year of crisis, Slovenia owed about that much. This was the aid, which did not mean recapitalisation. One part of this aid is still in these banks today as a deposit that has been planned by the budget which this year was considered to be able to raise these deposits, but we cannot because we were told that this would jeopardise the stability of these banks. However, we can use them for the payment of these contingent-exchange bonds, popular Coco or Slovenian shorts would probably be PoZa, as Mrs Podrata suggested earlier. What does that mean, I don't know, but we can use them to do that and at least get them into some kind of function. In addition to these 4 billion were recapitalisations, there was also a guarantee scheme, and SID was recapitalised for the purpose of the guarantee scheme. More than that, my thumb assessment was that we must have invested 10% to 15% of the gross domestic product in the resolution of banks in our time of crisis, with the result, as you yourself said in the debate several times. Every quarter is still weakened, there's still write-offs, there's still a downsizing of capital. Two matters where I was not well understood, I can probably say by my own fault that I was not sufficiently clear on the question that Mr Misic asked about capital adequacy, intolerance. If this falls below 7 %, the automatic role of the person who entered these contingent-exchange bonds shall be converted into capital. When I spoke about the scenarios by the end of the year, I said that I am sure we have enough instruments available to ensure that the capital adequacy of the New Ljubljana Bank will no longer fall below 7% by the end of the year. Hold what you said. I also said that we now have a task of raising capital from 6 to 9, saying that there is about 6 of the current capital adequacy of the bank. We're going to get her out with these different instruments, buy back hybrids and stuff like that up to 7%. The difference will then be these contingent-exchange bonds. If the capital adequacy falls again below 7 in the period until the end of the year, this is expected to be the maturity of these bonds, then they are converted, converted into capital, otherwise not. My assessment was that it wasn't likely, not that it was very likely. I said it's unlikely, I'm sure that this under 7 capital drop won't happen, among other things, because we have something else in reserve to ensure that if we really have to. After all, you yourself mentioned some of the reserves that we will not use now, but we can use them if such a crisis occurs. The question was about the expected ownership structure after this operation of issuing conditionally convertible bonds. I have repeatedly said that in no scenario that is now on the table, KBC does not come in over 50%. That's what you say. He doesn't become the majority owner. I think that the stake will still be well below what, but I can't exactly tell you right now. And the share of the country will gradually, not overnight, decrease against this 25%. The questions were also that there is no investment management strategy. I have already explained this; the investment management strategy must be prepared by the AUKN, who has done so. The government didn't accept it. AUKN did not make the following proposal. But we did what the government can do in the government. We have adopted a sectoral strategy that replaces the capital investment management strategy during this period. And that's where we determined these things that I was talking about. Another interesting discussion was whether issuing contingent-exchange bonds meant that fresh money came into the bank. Basically, because someone has to sign these bonds and write them in with money. If we use deposits in banks to do that, it won't be fresh money, but at least it'll be invested in some smart function. It means the actual assets that can be converted into capital under these conditions, which is also the reason that the European Banking Regulator recognises this as the bank's first-class capital, otherwise it would not. Is that a rescue? No, no, no. These are just the first steps. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have found that as quickly as we wanted, this will not work, but we are creating conditions, making time to continue this process of seeking out private investors, and that also on the basis of a careful review, which I have also said is taking place and how it is happening, we can also address issues of settlement of inherited bank investments, not just every quarter in small, but perhaps once for all, or what is now determined that we will also resolve with some appropriate measures, if possible, along with owners. There was another question. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments has been mentioned, there is no change in the view of equity books, but we can explain this when this law is being dealt with. As for the question of whether or not I will resign if someone goes into custody for things that we have now prevented at the NKBM Assembly, I think I have also explained what the skeptics of the NKBM Assembly were like. The only thing that we have prevented is for the Assembly to file charges because we have assessed that the Assembly is not the one to file charges, nor does it need to be read there and similar matters so that the congregation can be used as a kind of public clearing of the forum. This was what we prevented, but at the same time not only gave us the authority, we also gave instructions to the new supervisory board to look into these matters and to press charges if it so assessed. I believe that, according to my information, the authorities in charge of this country are also conducting certain investigations and that if they are not completed, it is primarily their responsibility, not mine. And no, that's not why I'm giving up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Minister, for all the explanations. I also conclude the debate with this. However, we have two amendments that have been tabled. Procedurally, please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u240	Thank you. Given that the Minister had already stated in his opening statement that we had received a letter from both Members and Members from the Capital Investment Management Agency on which false claims and inadequate information were to be made, it would be appropriate that, before we proceed with the consideration of the amendments, we should suspend today the consideration of this item on the agenda. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that the meeting be suspended, that the Finance Committee be convened, that representatives of the Capital Investment Management Agency and representatives of the Government be confronted with the fact that Members are actually given an answer, whether this is really an unfounded statement by the Capital Investment Management Agency. However, they point to all these problems and dangers that may follow when this decision is adopted. Therefore, Madam President, I propose that we suspend the meeting on a procedural basis today, that the Finance Committee be convened in the coming week and that this and agenda item 6 be considered together with the Capital Investment Management Agency, as well as with representatives of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr Weber, for your procedural proposal, but at this point in time, the suspension of the meeting seems unnecessary. The mother's working body has presented its opinion, the Minister here for further explanations, and I believe that the open issues that you raise will also be resolved below. I do not see the need for the suspension of the sitting, but I see an additional initiative. Mr. Möderndorfer, I'm sorry, he was right in front of you. An explanation of my findings, a replica of my findings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u242	I would not like to talk about the replica to your conclusion, but look, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly decide on this procedural proposal. What you wanted to explain was that everything was presented and that there were no questions, simply not true. Today, representatives of the Capital Investment Management Agency have not had the opportunity to explain their views, so I am procedurally proposing and requesting that you put this procedural proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u243	Thank you very much for your explanation. I see more raised deadlines, probably wanting to discuss or have some kind of procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u244	Madam President, you're doing well with this delay, but I don't think you have anything to wait for under the Rules of Procedure. Put to the vote a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and you will be satisfied with all the standards or you will turn the map and you will find one more three-hand list. Make up your mind, but let's do something, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr Möderndorfer, for explaining the Rules of Procedure. Mr Weber did not propose a decision on his procedural proposal in his initial implementation, but only suggested it to me. Any other procedural proposals? Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I propose that this procedural proposal is irrelevant because the reason you stated that there was no confrontation on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy between government representatives and representatives of the Capital Investment Management Agency is not true. The representative of the Agency was also invited on your initiative, which you sent me in writing, and he also discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which means that the views were faced, he was there and he talked about it after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Apparently, more had to come to this place in order to be able to decide on the procedural proposal submitted by Mr Weber. If I understand you correctly, Mr Weber, you have proposed to occupy the mother's working body and to clear up the situation regarding the AUKN. Wait a minute, Mr. Tanko, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I suggest you cancel the session in 20 minutes and we decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We're adjourning the session in 20 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u250	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to a vote on Mr Weber's procedural proposal for the consideration of amendments on the home committee. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. The vote has been suspended. You can check again, insert the card again. All those who have similar problems, do the same. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask for your attention because we are re-voting and opening the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] The proposal is not accepted. We continue to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled. We have two amendments to Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the annex and the amendment of the SD Group of Members to the annex. Anybody want a word? We have five potential debaters reported. Of course, we will have to pay attention to those who have run out of time. Just a minute. Mrs. Marjan Kotnik Popot is the first debater. Have you given up? Okay. Let's keep looking. Mr. Jože the Great, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia Novi Ljubljanski banka is very simple, but I also wonder whether in this country the constitutional regime for the administration of the State and the division of power means nothing more, or whether by giving unconditional powers to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we are not moving away from the basic principles of democracy. If Parliament is no longer the regulator of national governance, then doubts and assessments as to what Members are doing here in the first place are also justified. I cannot agree with the view that it is only a way to be informed – even from newspapers, while waiting and leaving all decisions only to the narrow furnaces of people. This is irresponsible and unacceptable, so I do not think that the adoption of this decision is ours and is not the right way. The exams will get harder or they won't be any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we will support or support the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. A similar amendment, or almost the same amendment, was rejected on the working body, explaining that, if we are familiar with it, it was at least heard from some coalition members if we are aware of the government's work in newspapers. If you read carefully, colleagues and colleagues, and I ask a little seriousness, please explain this amendment, you will find that it is good for this Parliament to support this amendment, because I would like to be aware of what this government is doing, as our colleagues and colleagues have said before, that it is not good for us to give the government a blank opinion. If you trust the government, I can't trust this government, at least not Bianca. It is right that we are informed, on the contrary, at least of the essential matters concerning the rehabilitation of our banking system. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to get involved because the debate is not just about the amendments. In the debate, Mr Šircelj, I quote, said: "The banks will have to approach the clearing of the balance sheets when they are being rehabilitated." Tell me how, Mr. Minister and Mr. Shircelj, specifically and what we've been waiting for so long. However, this does not depend on the adoption of the decision in question. Without that, we could clear up the balance sheets, as I did in my debate, and mention how New Credit Bank Maribor, for example, did this last year. I feel that we have always waited so long in Slovenia, and when we miss all the opportunities and opportunities, in the pit, panic and at the moment of mental confusion under stress, we save what else we can save. In doing so, I hope, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we are all aware together, and we also agree that if we do not help ourselves, neither will God help us. I hope we are dealing with what the possible sale of the New Ljubljana Bank means. That this means selling most of our economy at the same time. All other countries have bonds loaded at the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u254	Can I have your attention, colleagues and colleagues?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u255	Slovenia has deposited cash instead of bonds, i.e. EUR 1.8 billion. If this is true, Mr. Minister of Finance, I wonder why we do not use cash to improve the liquidity of our banks and start crediting the Slovenian economy, as do those countries and state banks that do not and do not abuse their national interest in self-destruction of their banking system and economy, as we do in Slovenia. The correct behaviour of the capital adequacy of the New Ljubljana Bank will certainly not fall below the critical 7%, but would certainly increase appropriately, while economic growth would also increase. Economic growth depends on the release of bank cramps. Therefore, Minister, do your best to ease the banking spasm and that economic growth will begin to grow this year, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež can't get a word because time has run out. So far, we don't have any more debaters in this circle. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I'll open the debate. Please sign up for the debate. Mag. Andrej Shircelj and Masha Kociper. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! In a way, I am very sorry, and I regret that I cannot hear the explanation of the amendment of the Social Democrats, but I think we will also try to understand it somehow without this explanation. The second thing I would like to say to Mr Misic is that I am not under any stress at this time, nor am I mentally confused, so I think that we can make a completely responsible and decisive decision here, at least I, and I hope that you will do it or maybe some sort of anti-stress program, if that is the case. Given that we are talking today about Article 2 and the amendment, and we are also talking about that nothing should be done, which in other words means that the bank remains the same as it is, and this would mean further, we can say, financial deaths on meals. After all, we are required by the supervisory authorities of the European Commission, the supervisory authorities of the European Union, to approach capital adequacy and to actually do so. In what way we will do so, we have talked for a long time today about how this government will do so. In doing so, it is extremely important Article 3, which ensures on the one hand transparency that this will happen in a transparent manner and also under control. This, of course, ensures the stability and security of banking operations and also ensures that the New Ljubljana Bank will start operating more efficiently and, above all, will be an appropriate service to the economy. It's not gonna happen anymore that we have a bank cramp and there's no credit. I have already talked about the rehabilitation of banks and here is the question of Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic, how this will actually be done and why it is not done. This is, of course, a question for the Bank’s management and supervisory board. I think that the politicians and members of the National Assembly will not do that at all, and that the Government will not do that, because we must once again give the supervisory council and leadership the city they actually have. And when the management of the New Ljubljana Bank and the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank will do so, then the transparent operation of the New Ljubljana Bank will also be carried out and there will be no succeeding projects involving the New Ljubljana Bank. Unfortunately, we have them today, even in the centre of Ljubljana or at least nearby, because they have given such credits, although some projects work in half or at least one part of the projects works if there is a sport game. It is therefore necessary to create conditions for the bank to have a certain capital adequacy and conditions for it to start operating effectively. She is likely to do so through the Assembly, through the new supervisory board and through the new administration, because, at the end of the day, there is no administration at all for six months or four months because the president of the board has resigned. And here we're going to have to look at all the balance sheets and all the costs, absolutely clear, and this is in theory that we don't get too involved in how this is going to happen. They'll do it, those responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u259	Chairman, thank you very much. I do not normally comment on financial matters, because this is not an area that I know best, but I wanted to draw attention to one other issue at the end of the debate, but it is also related to the amendment, so I will use this option. Members of Positive Slovenia today object for two reasons. One of the reasons we object to this decision is that my colleagues have already very well explained before me, so I would not waste your time. The second is, let's say, a procedural reason. Better than procedural, I would say the reason for respect for democratic and democratic procedures. We would also like to draw attention to this at the end of the debate. It is not enough for members of the coalition to harmonise themselves or for the Government to take decisions on such important matters as NLB. Such decisions must also be decided by Parliament following our regulation. If you don't mind, I'd like to take a brief look at Professor Butcher's thoughts. He just said it yesterday. I like to relate to the thoughts of the elderly and the more experienced, I think it's nothing bad. He said: "The purpose and purpose of Parliament are to harmonise the various general interests in common and to prevent the violent exercise of partial interests as general to the detriment of the social community. Only those interests that receive the necessary parliamentary approval can act as the social interests of the majority. As soon as these fundamentals are broken, normal social development and parliamentary arrangements are over." And when I've been listening here all day, let the government decide that we let the coalition side take on the commitments they made in the coalition treaty, I'd like to remind you of that. It is not enough that you and your constituents think what is good for the New Ljubljana Bank. This is so important that you have to listen and, if possible, sometimes to make a difference to all the citizens represented by the opposition Members in this House. And another point by Mr Bučar: "The coalition agreement is thus not an agreement on the content of future policy, but on the sharing of power between the parties. It is not about who has more and better answers to the most pressing social questions, but who has been able to gain more power to rule as independently as possible and to gain adequate power over their coalition partners." So allow us to conduct conversations on pressing social issues and sometimes listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I'm asking, would anyone else like to discuss this amendment? I don't see any desire to discuss this amendment. I am putting to the debate an amendment or, firstly, Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. I'm asking if there's anyone here who wants to discuss it. I'm opening a debate. The time to report is running. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. From Tuesday to today, we are discussing whether our bank will be sold out, sold out, or otherwise called. On Tuesday, on the board, you argued to us that no, but we don't understand what you're doing, that some bonds will be bought and everything else won't change. Today, the minister made it clear that the ownership structure in the bank will change, but we don't know what the price is, and we don't know who will be sold it to. And according to your proposal of the National Assembly, we'll read it to someone from the newspaper, and maybe if we're lucky, even for how much. Like my colleague Masha said before me, that's not how it's done. The division of power has been established in Slovenia, but from now on the government will be able to freely dispose of our largest and our slightly smaller bank. I am pleased, however, that you have said clearly and loudly here today that there will be a change in the ownership structure of the bank. So the bank, I don't believe, will be sold out at a good price, and it'll be sold out cheap. The Minister made it clear and loud that there would be a change in the ownership structure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We still have time to discuss, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see some people still want to, so I'm opening time for applications. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u263	Madam President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! It is incomprehensible that in addition to the opposition, the AUKN, the Capital Investment Management Agency, has the most comments. The capital investment management agency has had scissors and linen in its hands over the last three years with this capital investment. The results of the business over the last three years are catastrophic, although we have invested 1.6 billion euro in this bank. In 2009 56 million losses of the NLB Group, in 2010 206 million euros in losses. In 2011, additional credit losses and bookings were created for €480 million. The result of the group is a loss of EUR 282 million. It would be difficult to say that this has been done well, so today I will support this decree so that something positive finally begins to happen with this investment. We estimate that this is the first step towards a thorough resolution of the banking system without which the start of the economy will not be possible. We're talking about some national interest. For me, the national interest is not that the Slovenian economy pays a higher interest rate than foreign competitors and that the Slovenian economy does not receive credit. He who advocates such an interest works in a poor Slovenia and the Slovenian economy. However, I always get a sense of what is so disturbing to the opposition in this regard and why so many comments – because they have estimated that this government has found a final solution that the rehabilitation of the banking system is beginning to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u264	Thank you very much. He also asked the Minister for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u265	I think it should be clarified that the fact that the ownership structure of the bank will change is probably not some special news. When the government, I think, performed in February, and also in my preliminary presentation, which was at a meeting of the committee where we presented ourselves as ministers, it was more than very clear that the banks would not be recapitalised by providing funds for this in the budget. If the funds for recapitalisation are not provided in the budget, it is clear, of course, that they must be provided by someone else. And the one who provides funds to increase capital is the owner. Because that's how you get to be the owner of a company or a bank. And if you pay for the capital that stays in the bank, then I would like to point out that it's not about selling the bank. If we were selling the bank, that money would come into the budget. We don't want that because this money has to stay in the bank, because the bank needs money, it doesn't need a budget. Not that way. Those who invest their money in the bank, thereby recapitalising it, helping to ensure its capital adequacy, helping to reduce the credit crunch and also allowing the bank to clean up, not only on a balance sheet but also on a management basis and so on, will gain an appropriate share. I've also said something today about what scenario these shares could be like, I don't think I have to repeat that. Of course, it is logical from the outset, even when we adopted those already mentioned sectoral strategies in the government, which was also clearly communicated, we have never hidden those conclusions, and I think that whoever read them must have been able to do so by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Minister, for further clarification. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening another round to discuss. The time to report is running. We've got three applications. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music is first in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u267	Chairman, thank you very much. I would just like to answer Mr Mark Pogačnik when he said that the opposition was unhappy because the government had finally found the right solution for the bank's rehabilitation. Mr. Pogačnik, from your mouth to God's ears. If it is true as you said, and if this is really the right formula, as you mentioned, then I will sincerely congratulate you, and also the government. If you can get our banking system to the green branch, that'll be fine. That we warn you, opposition Members and Members of Parliament, it is good that we do not get as bad as we have been before. And take this well-meaningly. Not every replica or proposal of the opposition must be considered an attack on you. That's not true! We're not attacking you, we just want to bring this country to a common goal, just to a better state than we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u268	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u269	Thank you very much. One more time, Mr. Secretary. There was something completely different said on Tuesday, you can read a magnetogram, and on Tuesday we were convinced that nothing like what you said today would happen. I agree, that's what you've been saying, it's written in a coalition contract, but the bank's ownership structure doesn't change in the way you and your government will do with this decision, that neither the National Assembly nor the citizens will know how much, nor at any price, nor who will you sell our biggest bank to. That's why we're talking about selling it under the table. And that's true. Tuesday you convinced us, not you because you weren't there, but you convinced us that none of this would happen, that this is some simple bond that is a temporary solution, we don't know, we haven't been able to figure out until when, and we haven't been able to figure out how this would affect the ownership of the bank, so thank you again for saying clearly and loudly that the change in ownership structure in the bank is going to be done, and in an untransparent way, we don't know at what price, we don't know how much, as they want, I understand, and we don't know who. Thanks again for the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. I must be honest with you that I have always been quite skeptical about all these issues and the problems that have occurred in our bank or in our economy. However, a number of clarifications have been made about who and how these banks will be sold out, if we can say so or how they will be sold out in banks. I want to know what happens if this concept fails or what happens if we find out in six months that there are no results, what is the other program that will follow. And there's one thing I want to know is if there's only one person in the game who wants to recapitalize the bank, if there's more than one person here. Because obviously we are not going to find out about the financial success of all of this, but I think it is good that we find out at least the number of stakeholders who want to invest their capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u272	Thank you very much for the questions. The minister has less than a minute to explain. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u273	Thank you for asking. There's more than one interest. That's the first answer. The second answer is, if the plans fail, as they are intended, then we are in a situation where the regulator requires the owner, in which case the majority owner would still be a state to recapitalise, if not, then of course some kind of compulsory management of the bank is introduced. But this is an extreme scenario that I'm sure will never happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much for your answers this time. However, we still have some time available. Is there any other desire for a debate? As I see, there is no longer any desire to discuss with Article 3 or Je? [[...]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you. We'll open the debate. Please sign up. You're the only one reported. Here you go, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask, Madam President, just one more thing for the Minister to answer. When banks are being rehabilitated, it will be necessary to approach the clearing of the balance sheets for the New Ljubljana Bank, which has not done so – the NKBM – whether it will join in doing so. Further to tell me at what price, if the specific price of the share is known because something is speculated, or if it is true that 86.6 euros per share. We know that in 2008 the recapitalisation of EUR 334 per share, where our important companies became shareholders, namely the Insurance Company Triglav, DSU, Sod, Kad, Elektro Slovenija, Drava power plants, Sava power plants, Soske power plants, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, Geoplin, Istrabenz, TETO Ljubljana, Telekom and so on. First of all, I wonder if today's price is known and how you're going to act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your question. I have to ask the minister. Will you take the floor? You want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u277	The price is not yet signed, of course we cannot expect the price as it was in 2008, nor for other assets. The balance sheet will be cleared. How, to what extent, will we be able to tell when a careful examination is done?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I'm asking again, do we still have some time to see if there's any other interest? Raise your hand clearly. There is no longer any interest in the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article, so I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest tomorrow at 0.55, and I hope that we will succeed sooner. But we're moving on to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a decision on the management of the capital injection of the Republic of Slovenia into the NKBM, D.D. The motion for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u279	Dear Members and Members! This is a decree which is equivalent to or equivalent to the decision concerning the New Ljubljana Bank, so I do not need to explain it in more detail. I would like to point out once again the key point that, for the first time, the decree does not prejudge the method of recapitalisation, but provides that the state must retain at least 25% of the share and one share. Secondly, the National Assembly does not waive any of its powers by this decree, but only the powers conferred on the Government by the Capital Investment Management Agency today. Thirdly, I think it is important that this agency, in its capacity as a capital investment manager at the NKBM Assembly last week or 14 days ago, has already voted in favour of certain decisions that are relevant in terms of recapitalisation, namely, the administration has ordered the disposal of so-called non-bank investments with the objective of increasing capital and has given it the right to tender to a certain extent either through the stock exchange or through direct search for private investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Minister. The draft law has been treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I ask for a presentation of the Committee's report. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, all of you! At its 22nd urgent meeting, on 12 June 2012, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the proposal for a decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NKBM submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. On the basis of the opinion of the amendments, qualified proposers submitted to the SDS Coalition Group, the National Gazette, the SLS, the DeSUS and the NSI on 1st, 2nd and 3rd Articles, and to the Annex and the Group of Social Democrats on 3rd Article and to the proposal for a resolution. At the beginning of the examination of the articles and the annex, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained that the decision was in substance the same as the decision previously considered, and therefore the same explanation as had been given in the preceding paragraph at this meeting of the National Assembly, except that the amendment of the coalition to the annex is editorially correcting the misstatement. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further stated that all comments made by that service in the amendments of the five coalition groups were duly taken into account. In the discussion on the individual articles of the decree, representatives and representatives of opposition parliamentary groups opposed the sale of the country's stake in NKBM. In addition to owning the second largest insurance company in the country, this is the insurance company Maribor. It is also a number of others, with a bank of connected companies that provide the core of quality jobs. As the value of the bank has fallen to €96 million with the value of 2.39 euros in the given situation, it is estimated that the moment is not at all appropriate for the intended sale. Representatives of the Government said that it was a written record of the share of the Republic of Slovenia – without the share of Kad and Sod. Therefore, at the moment we can talk about 27.7% of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, while the decree allows all measures under Article 7 of the Amended Law to increase capital, even increase investment, sell as a change in status. Otherwise, further pricing depends on the time of sale itself, as well as the collected type of resolution and recapitalisation procedure, so that the Republic of Slovenia does not intend to lower its share below 25% plus one share. Following the rejection of all the amendments tabled by the opposition and at the meeting of the amendments tabled themselves, the representatives and representatives of the Positive Slovenia Group and the Social Democrats' Group, prior to the final vote of the amendment to the annex to the decree, obstructed further consideration of the item with the forecast of obstruction until the conclusion of the meeting. At the time of its consideration, the Committee, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and to the annex to the decree. In doing so, as a result of the amendment adopted by the coalition groups to Article 3 of the Amendment of the Group of Social Democrats, it has become irrelevant. At the same time, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Annex to amend the basic text of the Annex. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft decree, including the annex which forms an integral part of the decree, and adopted the act. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a decree, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u282	Thank you so much for introducing the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first word is "Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia". Will you give up the presentation? Also Nova Slovenija. The Group of the Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia is next. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, given that you have previously had comments on what I am saying as the position of the Group of Members, I do not know what I can say. But it's a fact that you're going to make a dot today and the end of our two biggest banks. The NKBM Group is the second largest Slovenian banking and financial group and NKBM is a systemically important bank, meaning that its serious financial problems or even insolvency would trigger a financial and economic crisis in the country. NKBM, d. d., is defined as a system bank by the European Banking Agency. As a result, it has been included in stress tests at European level in the last year. As a result, it is also subject to strict rules concerning the achievement of capital adequacy, which require from November 2011 that the bank hold at least 9% of its core capital in the first row. This makes it essential for the government to act directly, as it can only ensure sufficient credibility in its discussions with external partners and consequently ensure swift and coordinated action. That follows from your attachment, that's not my explanation. The National Assembly notes that the successful implementation of the recapitalisation of NKBM, d.d., in 2012 is crucial for the financial consolidation programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the pending European Commission's assessment of the permitted state aid for the recapitalisation of NKBM and consequently for the public financial situation and the international creditworthiness of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to find suitable long-term partners in the capital market to provide the necessary funds for recapitalisation, it is more appropriate that the country in NKBM, d.d., retain its share in the long term only of 25% plus one share in order to find suitable long-term partners. I am reading this because, on the Committee on Finance, we have found that we own 27.7% of the bank today, and with this decree we can reach 25%. It is said that we are talking about slightly more than 2% or 4.5 million. If we save our second largest bank with this 4.5 million, I really believe we can find these four and a half million in the budget, and we do. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, who participated in the committee, was also a little surprised at this finding.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u285	Say good-bye again! In the May publication of the Economic Mirror issued by the Office for Macroeconomic Research, Umar points out that the situation in the financial sector continues to deteriorate. The lending activity of banks is declining, in particular reducing the volume of loans to households and businesses. However, for those few loans which are granted, interest is significantly higher than those on which businesses and households in comparable European countries are indebted. It is particularly worrying that the size of the bank's bad claims is increasing. The deterioration of the situation in the Slovenian banking or financial system is not new. This situation has worsened since the beginning of the global financial crisis. The blame lies primarily with the previous government, which, unlike the governments of other European Union countries, has not introduced any effective measures to remedy the financial system, although it has had more than three years to do so, and the Capital Investment Management Agency, which, by some decisions such as the forced recapitalisation of the NKBM by some companies owned by the majority, has even made the situation in the Slovenian financial system worse. The objective or purpose of the government is to find a suitable long-term partner on the market to provide the necessary funds for recapitalisation. The decree before us is not only a measure to satisfy the requirement to increase capital adequacy to 9% of the capital of the first row, as required by the European Banking Agency, but also a measure to ensure the financial stability of the NKBM itself and the entire financial system in the country. The financial stability of the two largest Slovenian banks, which are in majority state ownership, and the stability of public finances themselves are not as threatened by global financial and economic instability or crisis, but by the continuous interference of certain policy options with the business and business decisions of the two banks. Just through the two largest state banks, a certain policy option is managed by individual companies. The blizzard, which has been proven by this decree and the NLB decree and the amendment of the Banking Act, is nothing more than a fear that it will lose its influence and the ability to intervene in the bank and indirectly in the economy and thus the benefits it has. Due to these benefits of a certain policy option, endless amounts of tax money had to be lost in NLB in particular. In order to avoid the risk and to avoid jeopardising the stability of banks, this decree will transfer the power to manage capital investments in NKBM and NLB from AUKN to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of the decision will allow for the rapid implementation of procedures relating to the urgent recapitalisation of the bank by the Government without delay, which would otherwise be brought into the AUKN by long-term procedures. The recapitalisation carried out is necessary to maintain the stability of the financial system in a country which will be monitored and transparent. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are confident that the Government will treat the investment as a good host, transparent, not under the table, that the price will be achieved in the case of sales of good and fair, and in particular that the Government will achieve maximum benefits for taxpayers by managing this investment and will establish a long-term, stable and strong financial system that will benefit all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We will therefore support this decision's proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u287	Respected and respected! For the stability of the banking and financial system Nova Credit Bank Maribor and its banking group are no less important than Nova Ljubljanska Banka. New Credit Bank Maribor is a bank that was worth €1 billion four years ago. Now, in recent years, especially in the years when this bank has accumulated a huge amount of poor investment, it has brought it to the value of €96 million. Exchange analysts who advise us in magazines and newspapers on how to behave as good masters to our assets usually tell us at a high price of shares: sell. When the price of shares is low, they recommend: buy. This is expressed by a healthy farmer’s intelligence, to which the current authority is very much referred. Yes, at a time when the price of the property is low, we invest further in this property so that we may sell it with profit tomorrow. This farmer's common sense on the issue of having the country's capital shares in both the largest state-owned Slovenian banks cancel. It is clear that Nova Credit Bank Maribor is predestined for sale. This is not only a question of 2 % of the capital or shares held by the State in the difference between 27 % and 25 % of the shares, but also of all the indirect shares held by state-owned enterprises such as the Post Offices of Slovenia, Gen and other companies which, at the time of the need to provide recapitalisation funds to ensure the stability of the banking system, bought back the price of the shares. The New Maribor Credit Bank is also important because it combines other investments with the Bank itself, which is a universal bank and operates in the whole of Slovenia, especially actively in Styria and Goriška. In banking investments it is present in the Post Bank of Slovenia, with the largest network of bank windows in the country, in the Danish Adria Bank, the Serbian Creedy Bank, in insurance with a control and majority share in the capital of the Maribor Insurance Company as the other most important insurance companies in the country, in My Investment, pension company, in companies providing financial rental services and the management of investment funds KBM Infond. The New KBM Group is a regionally important financial intermediary that collects savings and deposits from the economy and the population and directs them to entities with funding deficits. All those who come from Maribor and Styria know how important this bank is in Styria, and we all know how loyal savers and committeemen this bank has. This is evidenced not least by the implementation of public stock sales in 2007, when more than 100 000 citizens entrusted their savings to this bank. With this government's move, when we have the capital shares of the state, both direct and indirect, we will actually evaluate not only the state's assets, but we will devalue them, and this will significantly devalue the property of these people. At the same time, a few days after the proposal was rejected at the New Credit Bank Assembly of Maribor to file damages for harmful and semi-criminal transactions in the subsidiary of New Credit Bank Maribor in Croatia in the company KBM Project. I am aware that there are many audits, and I am aware that they need to be reviewed and it is good that this mandate has a new supervisory board, but in August there are outdated deadlines for filing compensation actions against those responsible in transactions which in a very suspicious and semi-criminal manner took place at the same time that this country was collecting and urging citizens to invest their savings in the shares of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. That concern is so much greater, we are convinced, above all, that a new composition of the Governing Council has been voted on at the last congregation. We only welcome the replacement, but we note that there are people in the Supervisory Board who do not have the appropriate accreditations according to the procedures that we have already implemented in the capacity to raise standards in the area of corporate governance of state property in that country. No, it's a client key again, as we see it now in a number of other companies, such as Dars, Telekom, SID Bank and so on. This practice destroyed Slovenia in the period 2004-2008. We therefore demand that responsibility be exercised against those responsible and that the New Credit Bank of Maribor be protected, which is the second most important state and system bank, on which fate also depends to a large extent on the heavily exhausted Styrian and Maribor economies. In doing so, I would like to remind you of the amendments that wish to protect the majority of the country and to ensure the recapitalisation, by using reserved funds in state funds and by using the part of state deposits in both state banks, we will carry out an appropriate recapitalisation and correct the capital adequacy of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. I invite you to support the amendment of the Social Democrats also because it requires the Government to demand that before the finalisation of the recapitalisation, which is not yet clear, also in order to prevent the possible harmful sale of investments and subsidiaries of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, including the Maribor Insurance Office, that the Government come back to the National Assembly and obtain the consent of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u289	Nice greetings, respectable, respectable! You could start like this, remember, comrades, but I will start, remember, the shareholders of the New Bank of Credit recapitalisation of 27 euros, the current value of 2.5 euros, and probably this 90% loss does not reflect the real situation. They say the price on the stock exchange is a reflection of the bank's business itself. Nobody wants this bank because it's a disaster. How have these losses been resolved in the previous mandate in the past? Finance Minister Križanič simply ordered – and pay attention to the word order. Who? Over Independently — What? – AUKN, i.e. independent in nicknames, the most important companies in Slovenia: Eles, Gen, Mail and so on to buy, recapitalise shares. Where was Frangež then to buy such cheap shares? Today it's probably going to be, absolutely, it's worth it, it's his economy, it's how he teaches us. Their success, their profits, so these companies Eles, Gen and Posta invested in purchasing these shares, which, of course, went into retail, instead of investing their money in companies for which they were trained, so invested in the economy, in energy. I would really like to know whether Mrs Bratušek Alenka and Mr Frangež, at the time, have sowed their minds to their minister, as they wish today, or whether they want to send her to us. Maybe you used to preach to him about national interest. I don't think so. Indeed, there is something that both debates show that they are aware that they have done wrong and that they are aware that some will obviously have to be held accountable for their actions. Someone has already pointed out that NLB and NLB mean jobs in Slovenia. It's true, the longer we're going to have this situation, the less jobs. In the former opposition, we drew attention to the many irregularities that took place during the bank's management by Matjaž Kovacic. At the request of AUKN, the Bank of Slovenia carried out even the audit of the bank. This included, inter alia, transactions between the Group of the NCBs and some former members of the Supervisory Board, notably the former President of the Supervisory Board and the long-standing first man of the Talum of Mr Danil Toplek, who took over the post in August 2009. What are the results of what the overseers said? As usual in this country, no one gets hurt. I don't think anything's moving in this area in the last few months. Investigations have begun and many of the main actors are no longer sleeping as calmly as they were a few months ago. Thank God, that's what citizens and citizens are waiting for. During this period, the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, led by Danilo Toplek, had no comments on the operation of the bank, there were no audits, no explanations, and the price of the share was sinking, sinking and sinking. I'm guessing it's not even worth two and a half euros anymore. Then Matjaž Kovačič, president of the board, simply stepped down, washed his hands, and took with him 6 more wages to ensure that he did not run out of money. After Kovacic's departure, the skeletons began to fall from the NKBM closets. If I only list a few of them: crediting Croatian companies with unclear ownership, real estate transactions through a subsidiary, now KBM Project, Business Constructor Maribor, lending to friends, City Hotel, perhaps even according to my information MTB, which is just days before bankruptcy, just over 40 million euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we didn't know, we wouldn't believe it. You're actually making fun of people. The bank's losing. There is a need for recapitalisation, and instead, some or many of you are engaged, right from the previous coalition, by sweeping disputed transactions under the carpet. It won't work! Is it now more clear that this is no longer the case? Is it allowed to try something new, then? Can we at least say that, from now on, the country, the Government and its results are in charge of this and will also take responsibility in the coming years, so that next time I lose 90% of the value of my money, citizens and citizens, we will know that the person responsible for this is a name and surname. It's not like those missing millions are laughing in our face today. That is why, today, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support this decree, which authorizes the Government to take matters into its own hands, to find a way to ensure that the Bank can operate normally, as delaying the resolution of the banking system is a concrete hand brake for our country's economic growth. And if I just remember, if we did that with TAM so that we could sell it for the euro, maybe we'll sell KBM for the euro today, and we'll have a profit over the years. Today, of course, we do not have any jobs in TAM, as in the previous government sales of Slovenian ironworks would have done a good job and a good job. Citizens would have jobs, money and thus the development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. You had a very broad and very detailed debate instead of actually presenting the Group's position. I was warned about this, but I did not stop because this has already happened with other parliamentary groups. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u291	Thank you, Madam Vice President! What was last heard was a controversy and a personal attack on two representatives of the opposition, which I strongly oppose and would expect you to warn, but not to commend, a broad and detailed debate, which was full of misleading data. NKBM had the most controversial transactions that would expire this August in 2007. Who was in the government at the time, you know. My colleague, Frangež, has pointed out a number of things in the NKBM, and I would like to point out that Mr Marjan Senjur, former President of the Fiscal Council in his interview for the evening, has said that the main problem is not public debt. That's the wrong diagnosis. The main problem is the debt of the economy and the banks. The problem with our government is that it has misdiagnosed and then from this until we solve the problem of indebtedness of the economy and banks, we cannot run the economy. And here's the problem. And if we look across Europe at how the old members of the European Union have solved the problem of banks elsewhere in Europe, we know, through recapitalisation and not through the sale of banks. Mr. Tonin showed some graphs. Indeed, it is very nice and very populist to see that profit in private foreign banks is great and in state banks it is small and that debt is high. But he didn't answer the basic questions. What banks are supposed to do. Banks are the backbone of the economy. Therefore, the fundamental question is where the banks place their profits. If you look at foreign banks in Slovenia that are successful, honour and glory, but do they support the Slovenian economy? What are they focused on, who are they lending credit to? They act by saving or strengthening their position. For me, it is the fundamental problem of the biggest Slovenian banks, which we are talking about today, that the general disfavor of banks, the banking system, people's mistrust and concerns about the crisis in which we are not inclined to recapitalise banks. That is why politics can now do what it does, and we hear that it doesn't matter who owns the banks. That's not true! Today someone has already referred to farming logic. Yeah, the old farm logic said that you're guaranteeing your independence with economic sovereignty and independence, so farmers started savings banks and banks. So we don't get too tangled up about these things. What I think is still necessary in this regard is, Mr Minister, talking about the commitment to silence. But you know, responsibility cannot be avoided unless we do what we should do or silence something we should do. I will not support this decision alone, not the previous one, because I have little information, some will not convince me that, because of their silence and interests, they cannot disclose certain things, but above all, I would argue that decision-making would be passed on to the Government and that the government itself would have everything in its hands. If we have taken the first step with the AUKN, they are only now finding that this was not a bad step, but a step in the right direction, it should not be the AUKN that takes away powers, but it should be determined how the powers and tasks of the AUKN can be improved in order to improve capital management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jože Tanko instead of mags. Andrea Shirtzlj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would just like to remind and point out that in 2011, before the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, the SDS Group asked the Prime Minister not to allow the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor and that its share would not fall below 33% of the ownership of the second largest Slovenian bank. In particular, they pointed out that the ownership structure of New Credit Bank Maribor could be entered and taken over by foreigners, namely Qatar Investment Authority and various other Qatari investors. It is also worth noting that the SDS in May 2011 requested a call for an extraordinary meeting at which the National Assembly addressed the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to business banks in majority state ownership. At that time, the SDS called for the rehabilitation of the banking system by introducing systemic measures also on the basis of examples from abroad, such as the establishment of a specific financial institution to remedy bad investments and loans from banks, and the determination of the responsibility of the administrations and supervisory boards to grant disputed loans to take over businesses. Today, when you have the opportunity to lead the government, you prove once again that you speak and work together. I would also point out that you still do not have a capital investment management strategy. What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. In these discussions on the state of the banking system, the opposition's main concern is always to say who is responsible for the situation in the banking system. Previously, Mrs Potata mentioned that the worst investments in the New Credit Bank Maribor were made in 2007. But from 2008 to 2011, we had another government for three years, which did absolutely nothing to determine anything at this part of the bad investment. No procedure, no sanctions, no action. It seems to me that you are the ones who have taken responsibility for a previous government for the work of the state, simply these things that you have discovered now that you are no longer a government, you have tolerated. You knew what happened, but you didn't act, not with the supervisors, not with the administration. That these things are attracted to the hair, however, can also be seen from further discussions, as interference with these matters is underwhelming. I think that's irresponsible. The control of the country's banking system has a regulator, that is Banka Slovenije, solely a regulator. It has an insight into the intestines of all Slovenian banks and Banka Slovenije is the one who must and should act if it has found poor investments, structural differences or anything else in the banking system. Today, none of the debaters have responded to the role of the Bank of Slovenia and the governors in the Bank of Slovenia since the independence of Slovenia. Not bad investments and bad bank claims have arisen only in the period 2007 as you say here. This has been happening all along. We've been rehabilitating banks for a period of time, recapitalizing them. But no sanctions were imposed for this recapitalisation, no change in the management of the bank, nothing at all. No one called any of the bankers to account. Banka Slovenije has neither taken any licence to manage the bank nor one! Not just to trigger any kind of procedure. I don't think it's necessary for us here to know who it is, who it isn't, or who's more guilty. These things are transparent. The AUKN, which some so praise, has been unable to make changes in the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank for four months or more. But that's what happened the second time. For one period before, the former government had the largest bank in Slovenia, but no one had taken any action. It must have been in the national interest and in the interest of the then coalition, by chance you are now in opposition. I don't think it's that easy to manipulate these verbal locksmiths. This is a serious question, and it may be necessary to ask someone who is responsible. All the systems that are being rehabilitated – Mr Starman probably knows well because he has brought them back to life – are subject to changes, rationalisations, institutional pay reforms, cost-cleaning and so on. The only bank that didn't happen in any of them. Even more. We allowed banks to charge additional costs in the same services to cover all these irregularities that have occurred, adding additional services. We have not succeeded in proposing that, for example, a small economy pay its obligations to a country with one stake. 30 million euros in the previous mandate was because we did not adopt this law, and we gave banks to carry out these transactions, I don't know, 9, 11 instead of one that they were cashing. This would be a contribution to the rehabilitation, to the improvement of the banking system, to the simplification of the system. And that didn't happen. And a whole bunch of these little things have happened. I don't think it's necessary to pour that ash, who would and who wouldn't. There's something we need to do. We cannot put EUR 500 million of public money into our banking system twice a year. We probably don't introduce taxes to transfer it to the banking system, and then this money goes to an unknown place. We still went to a billion euros in recapitalisation, about three billion in debt to the state and deposited capital on these bank accounts through business banks, even in contravention of a directive or regulation, but the credit crunch did not give up. What else needs to be done in these banks in order to make one contribution known where it is needed. I have no reservations that I should not vote in favour of the law and these two decrees. I have no reservations because I see what is happening throughout this period: abnormally high wages in bad banks, abnormal luxuries, investments without a programme. The bank requires an investment programme from everyone who comes to it, and the bank has invested in investments, I don't know, in Croatia and so on, in various leasings and things like that, credited us with bad investments that have no economic justification, without a variety of labs. It is not necessary to be particularly smart to find that the owners of the banks are the ones most indebted to the bank. They're not creditors. I don't know who owns this bank. He owns this bank and he decides on the fate of this bank, which he does not repay, which he owes, from which the bank cannot recover. Unfortunately, many of these investments have also been made through the intervention of political people. They even publicly boasted that they would be abusing money for certain projects. Here in this hall. And for an investment that is not commercial, a consortium of Slovenian banks was made to provide, I don't know, 70, 80 million for an investment that would later become a public burden, if not a national one. Also, those who say that something different should be needed or that someone should take responsibility for all that you have accomplished. Politically. I think that some project, such as the Stožice, should cover itself with some other resources, not with the consortium of Slovenian banks that were already in trouble and then gave, I don't know, 400 million additional capital in there for the next politically poor investment. It's probably not a concept, it's not a principle, that's not how it's done. And I am sorry that there is a great deal of distribution here about the fate of Slovenian banks those who actually managed important functions in the previous government and provided a case. After all, Mrs Bratuška was the Supervisor of the Housing Fund and there is now a criminal investigation. Yeah, that's right, that's what it says. But you know most about everything that needs to be done to make it different. But there you were a responsible person and so on. And it's not the only story, it's either to tell or point to itself, not just to others. When you do this, we will probably have a different idea of who is credible with what statement and who speaks and does the same thing. Not only does he say one thing, but when he's in charge, it happens to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Bratušek, you have no say in this, because you have not yet discussed and you cannot have a replica, but you will be on your turn soon. Mr Ivan Hršak, prepare Mr Jerko Čehovin. Mr. Ivan Hršak. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Jerko Chehovin. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u297	Thank you. We have heard from the coalition today that the government has a capital investment management strategy. But give us this strategy to show that we too will be committed to this matter. I don't know why you're hiding. Do we have here two kinds of Members: consecrated and unfulfilled. If this strategy exists, please let us deliver it. Not so much that, as on the parental committee, we literally have to draw every word from the representatives of the government. Excuse me, I have a granddaughter, two and a half years old, capable of articulating more sentences than the Secretary of State of this Ministry. And then you're surprised there's this kind of debate. Give us the information, please, we have a constitutional right to inform. Close the sessions, you have all the options, but that we don't know what scenarios the government has in the background, it's not worth it at home. That's not how you do it! We have a responsibility, and in the end, taxpayers and voters will ask us, you have accepted, you have allowed it. Then will we all be equally responsible? That's how it happens. That's what they say about ZUJF and all the other things. And please give us this information and let us know what these scenarios are for the government or the finance ministry. And please send qualified men to the mother's body, Mr. Minister, or release them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare the mag. Alenka Bratusek. [[He doesn't want to.]] Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I don't like to argue, but this time I'm going to allow myself a little controversy. It was said that what if, due to such decisions taken, there were bank decisions in bankruptcy or state. It already is. Both banks are virtually bankrupt. If you have to give money for recapitalisation so that it can live, or if it is a bank, a company that is classical, productive or any other time, that means that it would otherwise go bankrupt. This means that this government is now acting as a coerced manager and it is only a question of whether this scenario will succeed. Of course, I want him to succeed, but there are no clear guarantees, or it is probably difficult to answer. It's similar to the country. We've spent years and years more than we've created, so we've rented loans. And if everyone had that option, then no company would go bankrupt. We are in charge of the population, and we are in charge of the country, enormously. This means that what we are doing right now is actually a rescue route, it's a forced administration. The last company or one of the last to appear in difficulty was good for years and years, and the metalplasty is Lož. I went to look at the data a little bit, the company had it last year, if I'm not mistaken, 4 million Euros of loss, let's give them 4 million, and you'll see that it won't be a problem. We give everyone else, but not to the companies. That means I personally have no problem transferring authority to the government, because then we'll know who's responsible. However, we should work hard for the so-called lean country, with as few hierarchical levels as possible and as few decision makers as possible, and the reserves are at least 30 to 50 per cent. But the bankruptcy started in 2002, when we mass fund-building, agencies, when each mandate hired 4,000 additional civil servants and when we had the feeling that, in fact, without work, we could live well. And that's what we reported. It's just a moment of reality. We will get this reality – one before, the other later – you will get used to and the moment of sobriety and hard and hard work from 5 to 10 years to come from what we've gotten into. That's my opinion. The story is similar to that of Nova Kredittni banka Maribor as with Nova Ljubljanski banka. I just want the same criteria for judging everything and for people to be held accountable for what they've done. If I quote the Prime Minister: "Every loan has a signature. Every document has a signature. Let the people answer." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. Perhaps only a few clarifications regarding the absence of any measures proposed by the previous Government. Of course, it should be recalled that we have set up a Capital Investment Management Agency precisely because capital investment management has become more efficient. It was precisely in the NKBM that a concrete proposal was made that, pursuant to Article 327 of the Company Act, the company assembly should decide to file claims for damages in respect of the management of the company’s individual business resulting from a breach of the duties of members of the management or control bodies within six months from today’s Assembly. So a very concrete proposal, which was not included on the agenda of the Assembly at the time at the AUKN initiative. Minister, I hope this procedure is initiated. Secondly, however, it must be said that if the Social Democrats had a significantly greater influence in the previous government than we had, it would certainly have been different. Unfortunately, we also had coalition partners here, which in the meantime even stepped out of the government, and I think they were also properly rewarded or unrewarded, because then they failed to come to Parliament. With regard to the other matters that the Minister has explained in this decision, I would like to point out the following. He stated that nothing really changes with this decision in relation to the National Assembly to the administration of state property and said, "This has been the agency so far, but now the Government will have this power." However, he remained silent that the agency could sell transactions or sell qualified ownership shares, namely 25, 50 and 75 %, had to obtain the consent of the National Assembly. In this case, when this decree is adopted, will you come to the National Assembly for the Specific Implementation of Sales Transactions, such as the NKBM? This is an essential difference between what is in force so far and what will be, if you accept it, in the future. Let me remind you that we have already had a case where the National Assembly did not have the option to decide on the surrender of certain assets in Slovenia. This was true at the time of the previous Janša government, and at that time this Janša government donated the Blejska Island to the Roman Catholic Church without the decision or consent of the National Assembly. The next step we meet where the National Assembly will not have an impact is to sell shares of NKBM and New Ljubljana Bank without the consent of the National Assembly. If Bled is a symbol of Slovenia, it is, of course, a system bank such as NKBM, a symbol of the stability of the Slovenian financial system and the economy. And if this happens without consent and without the knowledge of the National Assembly, then I think the responsibility for doing so is very clear. However, we fear that in history it will be difficult to correct, explain, and correct it will be extremely difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, get ready for the mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u303	That's all I can say in four seconds. A bank error will be your biggest mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u305	President, thank you for your word. I think it is also reasonable here to support such a decree as the New Ljubljana Bank. Especially for the same reason. Again, most of the comments on this matter are being heard from one side, the opposition SD party. I might be back in 2007. But you also had a lot of comments at the first IPO that was made in Slovenia? That this stock is undervalued, what's the value? Mag. He calculated the incredible amounts and that there was some damage. A similar debate as it is today. Time has shown itself that the decision was the right one at the time, and perhaps it has been understrengthened. I think that the other way to support such a decree is to transfer the capital investment to the government, there is no other choice. This will lead to the consolidation and rehabilitation of the banking system, but, of course, the Banking Act will also be previously supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. I am not burdened with anything because I have been in Parliament for the first time and have not been in any such high position that I could turn anything to myself. But twenty years of governance in Slovenia alone with our country is the responsibility of all governments, not just one, on all finance ministers, because our banks were controlled, because they were not yet completely independent and not now. This is said to be the case with governments in their 20 ’ s or still responsible for the situation. We know that banks are the service of our economy and that this servicing has gradually been declining. It has not been reduced for those who have had enough connections, it has been reduced mainly for a small person, but also for companies at present. I believe that the managers of banks and the supervisory authorities of banks are very responsible for the situation that has arisen, that they are responsible for the decisions taken by our government on high discharges. So that one who runs a bank can get a million dollars, that's a crime in this world, and no one's ever started to research it in us, at least I don't have information in this direction. These are huge resources for my notions, because I came from retirement and had a low pension, well, whatever it was. I find it insufferable that we're here talking about how and what and why not. We need to move forward! I don't trust the most in all the solutions we've ever seen. However, we must decide whether we will stand in this place and go backwards or take at least one step forward and try to put our banks on better feet, if I may say so, and that we will help to rehabilitate our economy. However, I am aware that there are likely to be quite a number of companies in the hands of foreign capital. If we look back just a little bit at Zvon 2 and at Zvon 1, where our shares had successful companies, we see what is happening to them now. They're selling. And these are good companies that still work well. And where will all these sales take us? yes Because I don't see a way out, I'm going to support these proposals with a heavy heart. In any case, in the National Assembly, we should have direct information on how and what the Government will do, how the bank will sell its shares and what this means to us. I think it is right for us in the National Assembly to demand this information, despite the fact that management is transferred to the Ministry or to the Government. I think we deserve it or then we have nothing else to do here unless we are familiar with such things of vital importance to our country, to our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor, and Mrs Patricia Schulin is preparing. I'm sorry, you don't have much time, probably not much to say in 14 seconds. Mrs. Patricia Schuline. Get Mr. Roman Jakič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u309	President, thank you for your word. One last goodbye tonight, I hope, from my side. As we have determined today, I hope that not only today, that the stability of banks is under threat and that the recapitalisation must be carried out by 30 June this year and that this date is approaching, means that we must hurry and that this is also the requirement of the bank regulator EBA and Banka Slovenije. That is why we also have on the table today both a proposal on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novo Ljubljanska Banka and the New Bank of Maribor. When I hear the debate, I actually think that some of you are afraid of the so-called Coco bonds, which are an increasingly well-established financial instrument in the world. The issuance of so-called hybrid bonds not only permits but also recommends the EBA banking regulator. It is also important for me that the country purchases Coco bonds will not be in further debt. Today I miss this side of the opposition because no one has blown up the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party 10 + 100, so perhaps you have not done so because you would have found in it a written and denied your repeatedly clear vocabulary that the government is speaking and doing one another. If you look at the coalition contract, it says that the state retains in bank 25 + 1 shares in order for both banks to remain Slovenian banks and that the government acquires additional capital to invest in banks because it runs the Ministry of Finance. And if I understand both the motions of the decree correctly, the government is doing so. I also hope that we also understand the commitment to silence when the Government or the Ministry of Finance together with the AUKN, as I understand it, tries to negotiate and gain a strategic partner, that negotiations are still under way, and that any information in this direction of acquiring a strategic partner may jeopardise all further work and the meaning of these two decisions. Today we have talked a lot, and I hope that we will support at least most of this decree or both. That would mean we understand them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor to prepare Mr Bevk alone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. Today I was talking about my role models who taught me something in this national convention in the 1990 ’ s. Let me quote Dr. Butcher, who's the third of those listed. He said in his last interview that the problem is that we have no Parliament and that it has no power. Let me put it directly, the so-called second republic wants to adapt the constitutional system to conform to what only one individual says. In Slovenia we continue the party regime of power. The true dictatorship remained intact. If things continue, soon there will be too many Members, political parties, there will be too many countries. All that will exist will be the oligarchs of individual groups who will agree on what the future will be. And this is today the agenda item at Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor. Under the table, something will be arranged, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia does not know at any price what we will sell, we are just giving a blank menu. Instead of being here among us, Mr Janez Janša is in Kobarid today with Cardinal Angel Sodan. I hope to discuss with him how the 66,000 shareholders of Bell 1 and Bell 2 and the 100 000 shareholders of the New Credit Bank will be beaten as a result of Bell 1 and Bell 2, how they will resolve this, and these are the bad claims you have been talking about. These are bad claims that are in the New Credit Bank Maribor. My friend Pukšič spoke about the City Hotel case and the bad claims to the City Hotel from a bad loan. Procurist City Hotel is an eminent member of the city board SDS Ljubljana. That's why we're not really worried about the influence on these banks, but we're actually worried that in a while we won't be reading about the commission under the table again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u312	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožič, prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u313	Thank you for your word. As someone who comes from Maribor, where NKBM Maribor has also found its seat, currently in the square of Leon Stuklja, allow me to serve briefly because time does not allow me, only with a few statistics, so that we will know about which two banking systems we are talking about. The NKBM is going through this moment, according to data from 31. 3. 2012 with a thousand 346.55 employees, with 55 businesses all over Slovenia, for the number of shares of the Republic of Slovenia that reached 27.66% on the same day, or 10 million 882 thousand 794 euros, which is, of course, significantly smaller than the New Ljubljana Bank, which is a significantly larger system, would not list here what belongs to it, with more than 8 000 employees. These figures alone tell us how important these banking systems are to the economy of the Republic of Slovenia itself, which deserves transparent business and, above all, the governance that the Government or the indirect coalition wants to overcome with the proposed proposals concerning NKBM and NLB. That is why I place my heart on all those who will vote against it today, just as we will vote against it in Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Probably Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar you don't have enough six seconds, I suppose. Do you? No, no, no. Likewise, Mrs Renata Brunskole is no longer available. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek. He doesn't want to. I'm asking if the Minister wants a word as a proponent. No, no, no. This concludes the debate and brings us to two amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the discussion an annex and an amendment from the SD Group to the annex. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I do not see any hand, which means that you do not want to discuss the amendment tabled, so I am putting Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to the debate. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss the amendment. I guess he doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the decree and on the amendments will take place in thirty minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 14th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u315	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been paid to make decisions and now we will do so. We continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly, we move to the vote on the proposals for decisions, and please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of the Public Procurement Agency following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of 15 June 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I ask qualified applicants, since the article is open, whether they intend to table amendments to this Article in the third reading. No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled, that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not notified me of non-compliance and that we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act as a matter of urgency. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not notified me of any non-compliance due to the amendments adopted on the home working body and we can vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise by Emergency Procedure. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body, so amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 65 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u316	We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of 15 June 2012. This is an amendment to the 4th Article of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. I'm sorry, technical problems. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Check-in is on. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u317	On behalf of the proposer, I would like to explain why our Group will vote in favour of this amendment. Much has already been said about the likely unconstitutionality of this provision. For those who listen to us, we are interfering with the acquired rights of former Members, who will be short-lived to receive compensation. The amount of compensation will also be reduced, which is not so important and we believe that this is an unconstitutional measure in our Group. The opponents defended this position, saying that the Constitutional Court should decide. The Constitutional Court will use the proportionality test and the factors, the parameters of the assessment, which I have already discussed in detail, are stated, so I would not repeat them. I'd say that again. It does not matter whether you think it is fair for these colleagues to have a 12-month refund to decide on this amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues. It doesn't matter if it's yours or ours. This is not about the Members of Positive Slovenia. We don't even know most of them. Whether this measure is true or not cannot be debated. This is what you had to ask those who adopted such a replacement when you gave it to the Members and gave them 12 months of their replacement after the end of their term of office. In this amendment, we decide whether we respect the rule of law or not, whether we respect that the same rules apply to former Members, for the future, regardless of political likeness and regardless of savings, because I am convinced that the Constitutional Court of Savings cannot consider it a constitutionally permissible reason to interfere with past rights. It is true that I, too, do not hope to put my hand in the fire of the court's decision on this particular case, but I reiterate my opposition to the practice of this assembly, which has been established in recent months, when the National Assembly allows constitutionally contested provisions to be adopted, which must then be examined in the Constitutional Court. When I was employed in this Parliament many years ago, in the event that the Legislative and Legal Service of this Assembly only warned in its opinion that there was a possible unconstitutionality, this provision immediately went out of law and was amended. The fact that we ask people to require a constitutional review in individual cases when we interfere with their rights is unacceptable. Please support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening the application. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u319	I will vote against the amendment because it would be illogical, unreasonable, unfair, undecent and unacceptable for us to make an exception to Members in the context of the resolution of public finances, when we intervene in a number of the rights of public servants and also many others with immediate effect. It's not working. On the contrary, none of us can predict with certainty whether this article would fall before the Constitutional Court or not. I am firmly convinced that I would not or am more likely not to.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper in her own name? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u321	Just a brief response to Mr Virant's remarks. Reducing certain incomes and certain rights is not comparable to this arrangement. In the austerity law, we have reduced individual compensation proportionately for all beneficiaries, but we have not reduced the right. This is, however, a halvation, or it is now eight months, of the reduction of justice, where the principle of predictability and transition is threatened. At the beginning and at the end of their term of office, these people did not foresee this intervention, and this cannot be compared with the reduction of rights, the reduction of wages, which was the content of the savings law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. I don't see any hands or wishes, so we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We will therefore vote on the law. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the Group? I'm opening the application. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u323	Since it is a specific law that speaks only of Members, it is said to all of us in here, it is a law where everyone in their own conscience will determine, regardless of political affiliation, at least I hope that they have this sense. We in Positive Slovenia were very much expected to be able to make this amendment, and this was one of the main explanations why Positive Slovenia also left these negotiations, which according to the President of the Ferple National Assembly, was fair. And this is also one of the reasons why we decided in Positive Slovenia that everyone would vote as they thought it was right. However, we would certainly adopt this law if we did not have all the elements and the suspicion that, of course, it is possible that this is an unconstitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u324	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their voice in their own name. I'm opening the application. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u325	I will vote in favour of the law, and I am proud to be the first to be signed under this law, because it gives a sign of credibility to the efforts of this national assembly and the government to consolidate public finances. If you look today at what rights have suffered the greatest reductions in this context, first of all, Members' compensations will follow the rights of churches, religious communities, which are reduced by 20% by the Public Finance Balance Act, followed by political parties, where 10% is reduced, then public servants and everyone else. And that is exactly what we have foretold and promised in the coalition contract that it will be saved in a just way. Today, I knew in advance that I would set my back on this law or that I would serve as a pre-starter to colleagues from Positive Slovenia. Mr. Vice President, may I have a minute of peace to say to the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u326	Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u327	Yeah. I also served today as a pretzel with which you were happy to wipe your shoes. No harm, no negative energy always bounces against the one it's giving away. That's the law. Yes, also against Positive Slovenia. I'll go on a bike tomorrow, I'll afford a nice climb, if there's anything left of that negative energy on me, I'll shake it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u328	Thank you very much. She'll explain her voice to the Magi. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u329	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is absolutely right that Members also contribute their share to the savings package. I don't think anyone's going to deny it. But it seems to me illogical and unfair to use the words already spoken by the President of the National Assembly today, that a man who had violated three regulations a few months ago broke the Law on Members, the Law on Income and his own Code of Ethics, came to the National Assembly with a law condemning the act he has committed and today with his finger points to all other Members and Members. That's not just illogical, that's unworthy. And if you allow me, I will absolutely not support the law because no amendment has been adopted to eliminate the alleged unconstitutionality enshrined in the amendment to the law. I will also not support the law because it expresses the political ambitions of the ruling coalition, because the work that a Member can perform at the same time is not clearly defined and enshrined in the amendment of the law, this is a fifth work, because it is unacceptable to introduce an administrative inspection as an authority for the supervision of officials, because the law leaves out ministers of the government, they are not affected by austerity measures, and other officials in this country. And last but not least, I will conclude that this law also introduces the so-called Virant elitism with those functional supplements, which it also allows at the time of receiving the compensation. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u331	With the law as proposed, otherwise I have no substantive problems, after all, Positive Slovenia has written similar solutions in its party programme. In the process of adopting this law in Positive Slovenia, we have proposed a number of solutions that were more systematic, which would be a greater budget savings, legal and simple. Unfortunately, none of our solutions have been adopted again. Thus, it remains only a bad feeling that this law is being passed due to the likeness, that some people are correcting old mistakes due to demagogism, and that at least at some fictitious level we will improve the reputation and credibility of Members. And I say again. We will not improve the reputation of Members with this law. We will improve it by good work, by good laws, by proper debates, by preparing for consideration and by adopting good legislation that will benefit people. And if legislation were to benefit people, these people would also allow us these benefits, even slightly higher wages. Thus did We not please them, nor did We please ourselves. However, we have not answered any broader systemic questions, such as the one we want to have in this country in the highest political functions. Do we want obedient people who listen to their political parties, or do we want capable individuals, experts who will work for the benefit of the country on the basis of their past knowledge, on the basis of their own integrity and without submission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u333	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. As I said in the debate, I did not vote against the amendment that was tabled. And why did I actually volunteer to explain my voice? Because I have not yet come across a vote in Positive Slovenia where we would vote differently. Everyone always thinks the same thing. And it is from this party that the signs and instructions of how to vote according to your conscience are flying, not according to the client's instructions. Colleagues and colleagues! You are wrong and have no right to solicit intelligence from other Members and Members. And that's why I stopped by because I'm offended. You won't dictate to me. I'll dictate to myself, as I choose. And I always make up my mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u334	I don't know if you've told me how you're going to vote. Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u335	Just a few minutes ago, I thought that I would be able to work together to support the marriage, but I have to say that I do not want to participate in this purgatory here and be in the function of a washing machine where some wash their dirty, hairy conscience. I will therefore vote against it. Mr Pukšič invited us to vote the same. In the six months since I was in this National Assembly, we have not accepted a single proposal from Positive Slovenia. Not one. Five minutes ago, you had a chance to take one, and you didn't. However, you accepted some of those on the parental committee, which were all the same, and you were against it at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u336	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u337	The explanation for the vote is that I'm not taking part in the purgatory because you're taking revenge on your ex-colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u339	Thank you very much. When I listened in the middle of our debate today, and I myself somehow participated, I am increasingly surrounded by the feeling that the candidate, the President of the National Assembly, probably has an unfortunate hand. Really. When you triggered this matter, President, you did not do yourself any good or our next colleagues sitting here to perhaps get a better opinion on Members. What we have done today and what we are doing is not good for us, it is not good for this country, nor is it good for this country, nor is it positive for what you probably wanted to do. I recommend that you really think a little bit about your work experience, as you may have wanted to do well with the law on civil servants, and you also had an unhappy hand, very unfortunate, and you have it today. Look, for the first time, the law can be unconstitutional. I don't know, but that's what people are saying. But if it's unconstitutional, we can't confirm it here. Secondly, it makes a difference between Members. Thirdly, it is not so systematic that you can make a certain selection, because here we are Members of different professions. Those of us who have, say, a teaching profession must not be able to return within six months, but we must wait at least a year or for the start of a school year. Therefore, I think that with a little more patience, a little more thinking and a little more cooperation, we could have a respectable marriage and then even a reputation for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u341	Thank you very much. I cannot support this law myself, because, in my previous term as a fellow Member, I was also a fellow member of the previous opposition, not just a coalition, including from the previous opposition, today's coalition. And given that there is doubt as to the constitutionality of this proposal, and given that quite a few of our coalition colleagues – and I am really pleased to say that some eminent colleagues, who are here for several mandates or almost the entire period of Slovenia alone in the National Assembly – have debated in this direction that this decision is not the best. And here there is also doubt in connection with ministers, doubt in connection with other officials, because today there have been quite a few difficult words, hard words about reputation, I feel that even colleagues who have thought about improving the reputation of Members and Members, I think, and I find that this will not be the case. Therefore, due to the correctness of Members who have not been re-elected as Members and are still unable to obtain work today, on the other hand, also due to the correctness of future Members and Members, it may also occur to me that I will no longer be a Member tomorrow, but I am also voting for the next term of Members and Members and for such an immature, incomplete proposal, unfortunately, I cannot decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? I'm opening applications. Mr. Roman Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I can't help feeling like we're fighting for our own asses. Although I am an alternate Member and I can be out of Parliament tomorrow and I am not entitled to any compensation under this law, I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u345	Thank you so much for saying that. This law reminds me of a road where there is a big hole and a road company sets the "driving slowly". We're all mad at that hole. We cannot justify our inability to live better, that there are no new jobs, that we do not know how to manage capital assets, by reducing our salaries. This will not save us, not Slovenia. We need to take care of new jobs, and people won't mind us if we get any extra pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Beznik. [[He's quitting.]] Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u347	I will vote in favour of this law, but I think that in these explanations of vote was a typical example of personal accounting. I do not think that these things should be confined to a specific person to be judged by people. He would remind us all of what we said before the elections and what we promised people before the elections. Read our own election programs and you'll see. A large number of ours and your colleagues, who are no longer sitting in Parliament today, went to the polls with such a programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour and 20 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for Decisions on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB d.d. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u349	We will vote on the amendments following the review of the amendments of 15. 6. 2012. First of all, I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to Article 3. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 51. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have also an amendment to the annex, which has also been tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting on the amendment. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 11 to 51. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This is the end of our decision-making on the amendments. We are coming to a decision on the proposal for a decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB, d.d., in full. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal for a decree would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u350	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this decision in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. The reason is that you're going to sell our biggest bank under the table. We don't know at what price, we don't know how much, we don't know when, we don't know when, we don't know who, you're just giving the government a blank opinion that she's gonna do what she wants with this bank. Perhaps even in this case it would be good to look at a preliminary confrontation and see what you were saying about our property at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u351	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u352	The loss of almost 500 million in the last three years, the reduction of the rating class for seven classes, I think all of these are the reasons why we will support the amendment decree in the Group. Support does not mean selling under the table, but enables the best solution at a given time: better management, more rational management and a condition for the start of the resolution of the banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u353	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u354	We will vote against the proposed decision because we believe that it is a non-transparent approach to capital investment, which, according to known essential elements, should be decided by the National Assembly, but not by giving up this eminent right, that the most important capital investment in the country is made by known and clear decisions, and it is fundamental that it also has the potential consequences of such privatisation. We have made it very clear in our discussions so far that we see a scenario whereby the government wants to privatise the largest state bank and actually reduce the impact of the country to 25% in capital and agree that recapitalisation is necessary, we see the possibility of using reserved funds in state funds and through conversion of state deposits in both state banks and that such a solution can be implemented in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank and also the New Maribor Credit Bank. In this way, according to the extent of the resources allocated to the resolution of the banking system, the Netherlands would also approach countries such as Germany, Austria with close to 5% of gross domestic product, with 7% of gross domestic product, which, immediately after the start of the crisis, have significantly higher resources for the resolution of the financial system, and perhaps also today do not have such a problem of sub-capitalisation of their banks. This is important to improve the creditworthiness of banks and to start with an active extension of the economy and solve this key problem of Slovenia, and this is a high indebtedness of the Slovenian economy. I invite you, especially the coalition Members and Members, to consider the mandate you are giving to the government today and to the good of Slovenia and its economy and the long-term consequences of your potential decision you are voting against.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u355	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u356	In the New Slovenia Group we will support this decree. Today we have heard a lot about this, and there is probably no one who would disagree that our banking system is in trouble. Something has to be done. On the one hand, we have the opportunity to recapitalise from the state budget, about what Mr Frangež said, and on the other hand there are alternatives to what the finance minister has been talking about. In view of what we have been doing months ago, we have been drafting a law on the balance of public finances, and and it is very difficult to get those millions together, I doubt it, and it is hard to imagine, perhaps, New Slovenia does not believe that it is possible to bring these millions together for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and therefore we see the only solution in other options presented by the government. When I came to this vote, however, on the third programme of Television Slovenia was Mr Jankovic's statement, which said, "we will offer an alternative, we will propose solutions". I am sorry by my colleagues from Positive Slovenia today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u357	Thank you. Anyone want to explain their voice individually? Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u358	Thank you, President. I'll vote against it. I will vote against you because you are before you make the next big mistake. You made the first big mistake in the period 2004-2008 when you allowed artificial prosperity in Slovenia with borrowed money. The result is that it is not a bank problem, the problem is an over-indebted economy. Now, by making this second mistake, allow the government, in fact, to lose economic sovereignty in some way, despite our will, and economic sovereignty is one of the three forms of sovereignty that each country needs. Even if I had trusted this government, not because it did not work so well that I could trust it, I would not have given such a possibility to the government. And I call upon you, honourable Members, to read in your mind what you have written in the pre-election programmes, to repeat in your mind what you have promised the electorate and the electorate, and to do as you have promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u359	Anyone else want to explain their voice? There's some interest, so I'm opening the application. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u360	Thank you very much. A few years of sinking by a bank or a bank suggests that action is needed. I know from experience that untimely action can have quite a negative impact. I think it's time for action. Apparently, this is the moment of a better model. This gives the government a great responsibility from Parliament to rehabilitate the bank. Whether we trust the government or not, it's another question. I personally believe that no government and no administration can be held accountable, but there are control mechanisms. And I will vote in favour because I believe that after a few years of non-action, however, action must be taken quickly and effectively. Today, however, no one can say with certainty whether a complicated measure is good, effective or bad, but there is no other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u361	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u362	Thank you very much. I am also aware that action must be taken, but if action is to be taken quickly, the government should act sooner. Now is the 14 days until this date and, of course, there is no other choice but to somehow impose this action on us to transfer all these powers to the government. That's not good. So hurry up and pass all such decisions on to the government. This is the concentration of power and where power has concentrated, there is a much greater potential for corruption. Yesterday, we listened to the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, who warned us of this, the excessive concentration of power and the rush. When this happens, the possibility of corruption is much greater. The government did not do what we expected of it, so we should start thinking about this issue in the first place and probably find ourselves with us and perhaps with some experts of a better solution. We cannot confirm and accept this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u363	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Whether to act today or to find some better solutions, I think today is no longer a question. We all know that if we do not act today, the rehabilitation of this bank will take place through a supervisor, through the Bank of Slovenia, which means that the bank will go into a special position and this special situation will mean that the rating of this bank and thus the countries of Slovenia will fall significantly. If it falls, it means we'll have even more expensive loans, interest rates will be even higher. Not us, but our economy. And our economy will also be uncompetitive because it will have to pay high interest and it will be difficult to obtain loans or loans. The next question arises whether to act in this way or in some other way. Again with the state, again with taxpayers' money. How many times have we done this? Do we even know any other way? I think we know him badly. It may have happened in the past, but lately it hasn't. European legislation has also given us the opportunity to do so now with some special bonds. Here it is not only a question of whether state ownership or private ownership. The question is also whether domestic ownership can be equally private. We have repeatedly mixed this and the country or, if you like, governments, whatever, have not been able to act in such a way as to have an efficient and capable bank to service the economy. And now we have decided for the benefit of the economy, for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of the debate of the bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u365	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u366	Thank you very much. I have already stressed in my previous mandate that the state must own a bank. The country has several symbols. His own language, Slovenian language, flag, anthem and certainly one of the important national symbols is also his own bank. My own bank and the national interest that I am defending is so important that I believe that this decision, which will go in a different direction, will not be good. As my colleagues have said before, let us not be hasty, but be careful when making decisions. Let me mention one example of countries where banking is one example and I don't think of a country, for example, Switzerland, so that I don't have my own bank. And I do not want the Republic of Slovenia to have a bank so that at least one share would not remain the owner of this bank. I'm afraid they're heading in the direction that we're going over this. Therefore, I regret that I cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u367	Thank you. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u368	Your Honor! I will continue to vote against this decision, but at the same time I will answer the question that we have not offered any alternatives. First of all, today we have proposed the clearance of the balance sheets to the distinguished minister, we have proposed that 1.8 billion cash be deposited with banks and that the Slovenian economy can be credited. We said they did what they did last year at the New Credit Bank Maribor and at least partially washed the balance sheets and improved their blood count. The same could be done by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, but it is not. The types of measures are those that could be implemented at the time of the performance when this government took its position and did not do so. Now you're pretending that we're waiting for a decision so something can happen. It's pure, I'll say, fiction or running from the truth or from the reality. If we had knowledge, if we knew what you were going to do, we'd do something different. We allow you and we want you to succeed, allow the government and the minister to succeed in all the measures that are good for this country and for the rehabilitation of the banking system, that you are successful. However, in this context and in this way, when we do not have a comprehensive, clear picture, we cannot vote in favour, at least I cannot vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u369	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u370	Thank you. I, too, cannot give my vote for, for the following reasons. Firstly, this is once again a case where Parliament is transferring its original authority to the government, and this Parliament is becoming always more of a government service than a legislative body. Secondly, everything is done in time distress, in some time pressure due to known recapitalisation requirements of up to 30. 6. However, these requirements have been known for six months, not today, and the government has not yet taken seriously the rehabilitation of this bank. Thirdly, there is no known change in the ownership structure of this bank and we will suddenly find ourselves without some money invested in the minority work, and thus we will not increase the liquidity of the bank. And fourthly, I cannot support it either because I have not received enough quality information throughout the process and we have even been given the ignorance and arrogance of the people who should give us this information. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u371	Thank you. And Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, tonight we are probably at one very crucial moment: whether we will work all the time by giving legitimacy to the coalition with our presence and our voices against it, or once we will say that it would be right to do something common, something that might make our conscience easier, and we will be sure that we have just voted. There's no backup scenario either. With only one solution, we have come here and today we are not deciding what will happen to the Ljubljana Bank or the Maribor Bank, but also to all other societies. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't be a part of this. I'm leaving you. I can't be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-15-SDZ6-Izredna-14.ana.u373	We will now vote on the motion for a decree in its entirety. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 33. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NKBM, d.d. We will first decide on the two amendments that have been tabled, based on the review of today, 15 / 15 6. 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 53. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 53.]] The amendment was not accepted. We will decide on another amendment to the Social Democrats' Group, which is attached to the decree. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 49. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment was not accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NKBM, d.d., in full. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. We can vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 47 votes against 32. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 32.]] The decree has been adopted. I conclude this agenda item and also the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice weekend! Now, in my work's excitement, I invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to join me at the Collegiate.
