ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Mag. Leila Hercegovac, mag. Melita Župevc, Alenka Pavlič, Mirko Brulc, Branko Marinič, Janez Vasle, Peter Vilfan and Matjaž Han. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 20 November 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda or withdrawing items from the agenda, so that we will vote on the draft agenda as you have received by reference. On the other hand, it was a matter of procedure that the Magus entered the word. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings from the Member of Parliament and Members, including Mr. Minister with a co-worker! I have a procedural request for you, Mr. President. Yesterday at the College, you hit a deadline that you yourself adopted on November 12th of this year. And on my own case, I'll describe what you've caused. You ask the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, with a plan adopted yesterday, to convene a meeting or I, as President, convene a meeting on Monday, 3 December, without this small constitution allowing me to do so. In fact, given the law that has to be dealt with and does not follow some extraordinary procedure – this is the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Certain Terrestrial Plazas of a Larger Scope 2000 and 2001 – we have a small constitution, which is the highest legal act under which we operate here, allows only a regular meeting, references to the regular meeting of the Committee. However, in order to convene a regular meeting of the Committee, this same Rules of Procedure require that it be for a minimum of 14 days. This is impossible to carry out and the Committee's appeal on Monday means a direct violation in which I see that you have already coerced two committee presidents. Indeed, I am informed that both the Infrastructure Committee and the Education Committee have already been convened past the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 14-day mandatory business deadline is being violated. But I would like to inform you, Mr President, that you cannot force me to do so. Even if you so wish, even if all the others, Members and Members of Parliament, you conclude that a small constitution must be violated, I do not intend to do so for your sake. In doing so, you are probably aware that we have had Members and Members booked this Monday to work on the ground for a year. Some of us work in the field means a lot to some of us. There we meet in the parliamentary offices, meet at the round tables with citizens and citizens, and if there were more of these meetings, I believe that the National Assembly would also work more effectively and more in the interests of citizens and citizens. That is why, Mr President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I call upon you to reconsider your conduct and allow us, who are leading the committees, to work in accordance with what the small constitution imposes on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Thank you. This procedural proposal, however, did not refer to this meeting which we started, but related to the work programme for December 2012. This future programme was adopted yesterday by the College of Leaders of the Groups of Members. We have not overtaken the previous programme but have amended it, corrected it, given that in the context of the adoption of the budget it is necessary to adopt a number of laws relating to the budget, namely tax laws, pension reform or the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and the work programme has to be adapted to this. It is true that this work programme is quite intense that it will work quite intensely in December. If there is anything else that can be fixed, anything to change, anything to improve, anything to facilitate the work of your committee, I suggest we agree on this in particular, and we will try to find a solution. Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Dear President! I fully support the initiative of Mr jeden, and I would like to inform you that, unfortunately, Members, we have no choice but to express our objections in this forum. College decisions, as you know, are in themselves controversial. The College is not an institutional form to be envisaged either in law or in the Rules of Procedure. Nowhere is it envisaged that a college may have as strong a mandate as it has been in recent times. The decision to go to college contrary to the Rules of Procedure should not be possible, although, of course, there is also a coalition majority voting the opposition. What is happening with the constant prevention of the regular part of the National Assembly, with extraordinary meetings and emergency procedures, is indeed unsustainable. You yourself have assured us that the situation will improve after summer, and now we are going from one session to another. This does not allow us to do quality work, but at the same time as a woman – and there are quite a few of us in Parliament – I object to working all afternoons and thus neglecting families and evenings. A male part of the population should feel the same way. I therefore, in my name and on behalf of the Group of Members, object to the fact that you are thus forcing us into anti-business activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Thank you. So, once again, as has always been the case since the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were adopted, the College has adopted a schedule for the work of the National Assembly after months and this time we have done so. I can express my understanding of all those who have problems with actually working all the days, even one Saturday is scheduled in December, but it seems to me that when we ran for these functions in the National Assembly, given the time we live in, we all realized that we will work "full" if I may say so, and of course always legally and by the rules of procedure. In accordance with Article 23(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Colleges shall adopt a programme of work of the National Assembly for each year and a timetable for a period of at least two months. This is accepted in college, and this is not the subject of discussion in the National Assembly. The fact that we are now discussing this is a rather arbitrary interpretation of procedural proposals. This is what we are talking about in college and we have taken a decision at the college on this issue. As for the speed of proceedings, however, I must remind you that the proportion of laws we deal with after the emergency after the summer, as agreed or promised, has fallen dramatically. This statistics are now completely different and the laws adopted at the time of this year's budget, tax laws and reform laws are adopted on a regular basis as opposed to the previous years. Usually these laws have come to the budget meeting following an emergency procedure, but this time we have started the hearing earlier and we have regular procedures and that is good, I very much support it. We are now really moving on to what we are meeting for today, so we will set the agenda for today's session, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus and vote on the draft agenda. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the requirement of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination of the stability of the consequences which would result from the delay in the application or for the purpose of the closure of the law on the Republic of Slovenia's actions to protect the stability of banks at the referendum. At its meeting on 3 October 2012, the National Assembly adopted the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. On the basis of the request of the Council of State at its meeting on 23 October 2012, the Council of State re-declared and voted in favour of the Council of State. In line with the initiative of voters to apply for a referendum on this law submitted by the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries, I have set a deadline within which the signatures of voters to support the request for a referendum will be collected. As the first day of the calendar period, I set 19 November 2012 and for the last, 35th day of this deadline, Sunday 23 December 2012. With regard to this initiative, a group of 48 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a draft decision on the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the application or the rejection of the law at the referendum, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 1, and Article 21, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Referendum. At the outset, I would like to give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank to further explain the proposal for a request on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we will decide that the National Assembly will send to the Constitutional Court the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the suspension of the application or the rejection of the law on the so-called bad bank. The trade union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries has fulfilled the condition necessary to begin collecting signatures for the invitation to tender for the legislative referendum. We are of the view that the call for a referendum and the possible rejection of the law have a short-term and long-term type of anti-constitutional consequences, which will further deepen the crisis in the country, in the short and medium term even prevent the adoption of a number of measures that would improve the situation of individuals, the economy and all social subsystems, and also limit the country's sovereignty, since without intervention assistance, they would not be able to ensure the performance of most of the country's tasks and functions. On 18 October, so a good month ago, Dr. Peter Kraljič, who is not exactly a fan of the current government, said the following: I quote: "The priority of the government's exit from the crisis must be supported, whether we love it or not, because it is in a hurry." End of quote. So, not to politicize, not to "supervise", as our former fellow citizens say, beyond Kolpa, but to take the proposed measures. The government has set out five priority areas covering the regulation of the banking system, ensuring the financial sustainability of the budget, improving governance of state assets and labour market reforms and the pension system. At government and legislative level, more or less everything follows planned dynamics, obstacles are put in place after laws have been passed in the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court will decide on the unconstitutional consequences of the Slovenian State Holding Act. There will also be a request from the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries for a referendum on the so-called bad bank. All these obstacles, which are now being set after long summer coordination with representatives of parliamentary parties, do not bring good to the country. The signals we send to those who accompany us and evaluate us or to those who lend us are extremely bad or even harmful. We are downgrading the country's credit rating in all credit rating agencies, as a result of which the cost of indebtedness of the country is rising, which is also reflected in household and economic credit prices, of course if they can be obtained at all. The cost of living and working is increasing and our competitiveness is falling. To whom in this country is the decline of these priorities a goal, and why? Is it true that an important part of our policy, various associations and associations does not want to have sustainable public finances, or to improve the management of state property, or to have a structured, transparent, well-functioning banking system that will serve both individuals and economic companies? Does it really not want to verify what was happening in those banks that are in a significant or even majority share, state-owned and in which we systematically poured public money through recapitalisations so that they could operate, and nothing has been done to address the causes of bad business? We believe that it is necessary to do exactly what is being done to prevent political and other activities. The rehabilitation of the banking system is therefore only one of the five priorities that need to be taken to remedy the country's extremely poor financial situation and not just in the country. Let me just remind you, for example, that the management of state assets, with our family silver, caused about €470 million in losses last year, as we spent €507 million on recapitalisation and the dividend was paid in the same year, only €34 million. A lot of similar results have been achieved by so-called state banks, a lot of weaknesses, a lot of write-offs, more recapitalisations – one big this year. The countries' inputs to the banks are quite high and business is not improving. Both of our biggest banks are already predicting a loss this year, which is not promising. Despite all the problems and constraints faced by all the banks in our country, only the so-called NLB, NKBM and Abank are the only ones in our banking market who are dealing with losses, and the only ones who periodically need more than 100 million recapitalisations from the budget, are said to be tax assets. At the same time, these same banks have always found enough money to finance projects with beautiful eyes, confidence, science or political projects. Many received large amounts without real or appropriate insurance, under very favourable financial conditions. They also spent money on so-called managers' buy-ins, and these loans now represent an important part of the bad investments made by state banks. We are constantly hearing the allegations that most of these loans were granted during the previous Janša government, i.e. in the 2004-2008 mandate, and that the previous Janša government is to blame for excessive indebtedness. However, when the new Janševa government proposes a law on the so-called bad bank to be transferred to, and also revise, the dossiers of all the bad Taliban loans, review the files and carry out other analyses so far, with the banking secrecy of the secured cases, and there is a resistance to the current opposition policy, that is to say, the members of the Positive Slovenia Group and the Social Democrats, a blockade of the State Council will take place with a veto on both laws. They are trade unions that have collected signatures for the referendum for both marriages, and they have also filed them for the bank. Among the opponents of these measures are the President of Forum 21, in which several tycoons are involved, as well as the President of the State. We ask you why you are putting so much effort into protecting the previous Janša government, which is supposed to be responsible for the Taiwanese credits in its mandate, when, according to many Members, the current opposition has been granted the most. Why, then, do you want to prevent the review of the files in a bad bank and block any criminal proceedings in cases of reported abuse and crime? Who's scared? Who should be protected in particular? Which uncles would look at these files? Why not get to know those who went through past mandates in recent years, moral gambling? At a recent protest union meeting – he was also attended by Ljubljana Mayor and President of Positive Slovenia Jankovic, President of the Social Democrats Luksic, President of Forum 21, in which several known tycoons were enrolled – some union leaders spoke of the stolen country, the greedy tycoons, the devouring capital. If we really want to get answers to these questions, then we need to enforce the Bad Bank Act in order to or finally to determine who were the ones who approved bad loans under privileged conditions; who were the tycoons who received these loans; who were the ones responsible for the investments of the bad banks in the Balkans and elsewhere; who were the ones who failed to recover and made a series of write-offs for accounts on unknown or unknown or hidden collectors in the Paradise Andean or other islands? Let's explore why different ad hoc consortia have been set up, where state banks have entered and provided more than 10 million deposits. Let's explore who was behind these financial projects: which policy, which policy, which one comes from the background, which mayor, whose social circle or someone else. Some publicly boasted that they had lobbyed for such projects. For which even the tendering conditions were adapted. We also have an example of a politically oriented recapitalisation of New Credit Bank Maribor, which swallowed a large majority of the 48 million euro contribution from the profits of successful state-owned companies Elesa, Posta, Gen energy. New Credit Bank Maribor remained in majority state ownership and nothing was resolved. On the rescue route, it shows €90 million in losses, which means that it has created 2 euros in losses on the euro of recapitalisation, with the value of the deposit reduced to a quarter and the yawning hole has to be re-covered. The problem in the New Ljubljana Bank is even bigger. If we want bad practices to be prevented in the future, if we really want the stolen state to return, or what was stolen from that country, to investigate moral gambling, to prevent further crackdown under the cover of bank secrecy, to prevent the breakdown of the social state, the loss of sovereignty and anything else, then the law on the so-called bad bank needs to be given an opportunity. By withdrawing trade union signatures or by withdrawing signatures for a referendum or by hoping that the Constitutional Court will adopt a decision prohibiting the call for a referendum due to unconstitutional consequences. I think Dr. King is right. The Government's priorities for getting out of this crisis must be adopted. If you can't do them out of love, at least put them out of the blue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u7	The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the word "magic." Mr Andrey Shirtz, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 37th urgent meeting, on 22 November, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the suspension of the application or the rejection of the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in the referendum. This proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. In the introduction, the chairman of the committee briefly presented the chronology of the developments concerning the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In the discussion, the representative of the motioners presented the reasons for the adoption of the law and the content of the proposed decision together with a justification. He said that the Republic of Slovenia must take decisive measures to stabilise public finances, reform the labour market and reform the pension system, as well as to improve governance of state assets. In the context of this reform package, Slovenia must also rehabilitate the banking sector. If Slovenia does not implement these measures in due time, it will have to apply for international financial assistance. As a result, this means a loss of economic sovereignty. The resolution process of the Slovenian banking system, as foreseen by the law, has been positively assessed by the international institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank. At the meeting of the Committee, the Minister of Finance briefly presented the chronology of the negotiations with the trade unions which had taken the initiative to call for a referendum. He said that the restrictions in the negotiations were the fact that the concept of the law would not change and the fact that other solutions should not be more expensive than already proposed. Most of the negotiations concerned the question of what would happen to the shares of those companies whose bad claims would be transferred to a bad bank and the issue of supervision. The trade union requirement was also that banks must first recapitalise and then transfer bad claims. In addition, the Minister presented the consequences of non-admission of law and poor alternatives if the referendum requirement of trade unions remains. He said the government is still ready to negotiate with the unions. Regarding the likelihood that marriage is the most expensive solution, he said that the methods and methods of comparison should be taken into account. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their written opinion and said that the proposal for a decision had a legal basis in the provisions of Article 21(1) of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. In the debate, members of opposition groups said that the proposal for a decision was not well founded and that it meant only the possibility to postpone the date of the referendum. With regard to the unconstitutional consequences, Members believe that they are not present. They also consider that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is not the only possible debate to strengthen banks, and members of opposition parliamentary groups consider that this is a costly way to rescue banks. These Members also said that this law is not reformable and will not save Slovenia's public finances. They also stressed the fact that they do not know how much the strengthening of bank stability will cost. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted an amendment which constitutes an editorial correction based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the completed proposal for a decision in which the amendment is incorporated is drawn up, subject to the reasonable application of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended proposal for a decision is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Thank you. I also give the floor to Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, to present the Government's opinion on the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the President! The Government supports the request for a constitutional review of the request for a referendum or for the eligibility of such a referendum, or for its constitutional admissibility, for two reasons in particular. The first reason, of course, is that we agree with the reasons set out in this constitutionality assessment request. In this regard, I would like to say what are the alternatives and what is the situation we are facing. If a referendum were to take place, this referendum, of course – with additional time to collect signatures and then time for the referendum campaign – would not be able to happen sooner than at the end of February, which means that we have some serious problems in the meantime. We have at least three banks that will need additional capital because of the regulator's requirements this year and because of the additional weaknesses that arise. We are solving this, but the failure to enforce this law takes one of the key instruments that would, of course, be the elimination of bad claims and thus strengthen capital adequacy. Of course, we can think about the fact that banks would recapitalise directly, but we are in a situation where in all three of the largest banks, in the New Bank of Credit Maribor, where the country no longer has voting rights, in the Bank, where the main owners, including one of the State-owned Insurance Company Triglav, also no longer have voting rights and in the New Bank of Ljubljana, where we are protected from the loss of rights by a shareholder agreement with the NCBs. The NCBs, as you know, will also have to step out of the ownership of this bank by the end of the year, it is said that this shareholder agreement will fall in all three banks. Even if recapitalisation is needed, let's say only EUR 10 million, we'll have to give the one he's going to do, and if this country is going to make a takeover bid for the whole bank. In short, just the opposite of what you said in the opposition all the time. If we recapitalise, this will be a significantly more expensive path because we will have to take over the entire bank instead of only dealing with the part of the bank portfolio that is tied to bad claims, which, of course, this law would have allowed us to do if it had been enforced. Therefore, banks will have to solve their own situation, we will help them as much as possible, but we know what are the methods the banks can use. Everything they haven't done in the last three, four years. Aggressive collection of claims – you know what this means for companies to which these claims are aggressive and fast sales of assets or collateral held by banks. For several years, banks have been sitting on real estate, sitting on business shares – even because of the political intervention of these shares in companies in the past they have not sold or sold them substantially more slowly than they should have been in terms of their business. Now they will have to do it very quickly, do it at any cost, because we simply do not have other instruments to ensure capital adequacy or are extremely expensive, such as those recapitalisations I have been talking about. And then the country, when it does not have an instrument for some regulated process of restructuring banks and their bad claims and after the banks sell their assets and strengthen their capital adequacy, will in fact leave the banks fully privatising. In order to avoid this cost, which would result from unnecessary and unnecessary high recapitalisations, because what we have proposed as an orderly way of dealing with this situation will not be applied in a timely manner. This is about the alternative brought by this referendum and the way it forces us to act. We have repeatedly explained this to the candidates of the referendum, negotiated with them, prepared a proposal for an agreement in 16 points. As the Government, we are prepared to commit ourselves to making changes to the law that we would agree with them, the only condition we have laid is that we do not change the basics – everything else was on the table. We didn't interrupt these conversations, they were interrupted by a union with a letter. We replied that we were still ready for further talks, but there is no response. In short, they have decided to block, despite our efforts now again – we can still find a solution to withdraw the referendum requirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u12	All of you, welcome! I will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the parliamentary group. Let me begin by presenting our position with the issues that arise to us in the conduct of some stakeholders and political groups in our country. Is it possible that it is still unclear to anyone in this country that the Republic of Slovenia is in a situation where it has to take certain measures to stabilise public finances, reform the labour market and reform the pension system and that there is no way to avoid the resolution of the banking sector as soon as possible? Can anyone still be blinded to the fact that, in the financial sector, it is not necessarily necessary to adopt the measures provided for in the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks? Who would be in a position to continue the situation in which banks are substantially less credited by an economy that lacks sufficient resources for business and development? Who wants to raise interest on government bonds, and the country would be prevented from accessing international financial loans in order to force Slovenia to apply for international financial assistance and accept all the consequences of the loss of sovereignty that such assistance entails? We have already lost a lot of sovereignty over the EU, whether we admit it or not. The fact that we can no longer close our eyes is that Slovenian banks have 6 billion Euros of bad claims. Six billion! Easier performance – this is the amount that is practically comparable to the amount of revenue in the State budget, which is foreseen for 2013 at EUR 8 billion and EUR 608 million. We must also honestly acknowledge that the current situation has shown that the resolution of bad investments within banks alone is not rational. Because if banks and Banka Slovenije had done this in the past years, we would not have any bad investments today. So there are only two real solutions to this problem. One is a solution with public debt, and the other with external aid, which some strike with incomprehensible and irrational excuses. If we already have to resolve bad investments by means of taxpayers, it would be fair and politically appropriate to save bad investments outside banks and therefore suitable state institutions such as the Bank's Claims Management Company and the Bank's Stability Fund. Both are designed according to the German model and the German banks are solving entirely different reasons for the weakening, that is, the causes of a partly internal nature, especially the debt crisis in Greece, Spain and so on. In addition to the global financial crisis, we are dominated by domestic stories, which are reflected in the irresponsible lending of mainly Lombard loans to various financial holding companies and companies – mainly for the purpose of privatising them – without proper control over the use of allocated funds. This has led to the depletion of businesses for the personal benefit of the elite. The consequences are reflected in outdated, non-competitive production, non-payment of suppliers, employees and, last but not least, insolvency, forced settlement and bankruptcy. Also building financial pyramids, overestimating the value of investment buildings, apartments and so on. These examples show that the responsibility for poor investments lies primarily with those responsible in banks, and unfortunately we do not have enough information on all of this. In order to avoid further disputed business practices, the State institution, the Company for Bank Claims Management, should also be responsible in grave terms for the detailed revision of all credit contracts maintained by banks as impairments, on the one hand, and for the management of poor investments. Instigators of the legislative referendum on the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks claim that they are concerned that the rehabilitation of banks will be paid from the sale of companies and that they wanted to ensure that the first criterion will be the long-term existence of these companies and jobs, not the maximisation of prices. They negotiated with the Minister of Finance amendments to the Law and the possible withdrawal of the referendum initiative, but failed. The Union called on all those responsible in the country to find a new solution to remedy the bad banking claims, which would have the widest agreement. At the same time, of course, some alternative and concrete solutions have not been proposed by the union, as we are already accustomed to by opponents and critics of the legal solutions offered. Just criticism, no suggestions. In the DeSUS Group, we do not know whether the implementation of the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks will actually eliminate the credit crunch. We know, however, that it is necessary to cut the Gordy knot somehow and stop the bad business of Slovenian banks with an appropriate legal solution. Since in the DeSUS Group we believe that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is one of the right ways and that its implementation would help improve the situation in the banking system and consequently strengthen the financial system as a whole, we will also help to improve the rating of banks and the Republic of Slovenia and allow easier access to funding sources and thus release credit crunches. We have therefore also acceded to the signing of the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the suspension of the application or the rejection of the said Referendum Act. Of course, the decision on the request is supported by the entire Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which does not deny Slovenian citizens and citizens the right to a referendum. However, these requirements need to be critical enough to know what to leave to the profession and what to the electorate and the electorate directly. In the light of what has been said in our Group of Members, we believe that the referendum on this law is not in place, so, as has already been said, we will support the decision on constitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u13	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister, I welcome you all very much! The global society, the European Union and the country of Slovenia in particular, was in a financial debt crisis and, as a result, in the economic crisis due to a lack of respect for common human values. Today, this is taught by various gurus from various fields of study of human society — everyone should know that today. This means that key people in the political, financial and economic sphere who have been entrusted with great responsibilities in their conduct have not taken into account the generally known corporate values and ethical principles of business in the performance of trust and property and processes. Some, in Slovenia, were willing to conceal all moral and ethical standards. The spiritual and cultural level of a society is particularly recognized by its ethical and moral values, which reflect social consciousness. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the social awareness in Slovenia today in 22 years of independence? This is a question that, more than an answer, requires the responsibility of all of us, who represent the legislative, executive or judicial branches of power in the Republic of Slovenia. The informal fourth branch of government, represented by the media in democratic societies, is also extremely important for the creation of social consciousness. The situation is called for the responsibility of all citizens, especially all politicians, from the first policy in the country to the last of the 3 000 323 municipal councillors. Unfortunately, the current situation in the Republic of Slovenia is such, and we regret that today the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is not even a topic – perhaps a second-class one. Today, the first-class theme in this country is how to block the implementation of solutions that try and have a good and sincere intention to restart the Slovenian economy, create a business environment for the development of businesses – many have good products, new products, new markets, but because of more than three years of credit crunch, they cannot achieve their business goals. We are facing a situation where a handful of people are pumping up — I have chosen this expression here on purpose because it belongs in the context of today’s session or in the context of the referendum’s proponents — so when a handful of people are pumping up a sufficient number of people who oppose and block solutions without at least knowing the contents of the solutions. These are not ideal, we admit, because they are not ideal. Perhaps today, when there are no regulations under the law, they are not operational yet — but the solutions that will lead to the goals that we have set for ourselves with the competent, honest people. The coalition listens to the obvious that it is too hasty with legal solutions, and the second is called for a quick solution. The opposition calls for the opening of large public investments, which, of course, we very much agree, with the difference that it is sufficient for the opposition to speak only and that the coalition has the task of providing financial resources for the third axis, for the fourth axis, for the second track, for the third pier, for the Sava power plant, for the Mura power plant and so on and so on. Because of the blockades in this country, no one, at least cheap enough, lends us money – we do not have it ourselves, and the right approach to using European funds has only systematically intensified with this government, as progress or problems are being monitored at government meetings every week. In Slovenia too much talk about some brutal savings, about cuts in various areas, about cuts all on average. It creates a depressing social climate that destroys the creative potentials that Slovenia has in Slovenia, thank God very much. And it is to these potentials that we want to create an environment where they can maximize their development, create new products, new jobs, attract domestic and foreign investors and thereby preserve and create good social policy and prosperity for all of us. Dearly beloved, we are doing nothing but trying to bring the revenues of the state budget closer to the use of resources from the state budget. Unfortunately, once again we have a handful of people pumping up a crowd of people into the belief that there is more to be spent than there is to be created. We are still spending a good billion more than we are producing – if this goes on, Slovenia will only go back. Nevertheless, and for the fifth time in the National Assembly, what are the objectives, in fact, pursued by the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks? I cite the five most important objectives. First objective: to exclude bad claims from banks, which will reduce doubts about the balance sheet of credit institutions. In this way, banks will reduce their exposures to creditors unable to repay their claims. The consequences will be higher credit ratings for the bank and easier access to funding sources. Second objective: to recapitalise credit institutions, which is a condition for the start of a new credit cycle. Third objective: to draw up restructuring plans for banks that will enable long-term operations without State aid. Fourth objective: flexible restructuring of corporate debt to banks. And the fifth objective: to consolidate the banking system by combining, connecting and taking over, which is essential for increasing efficiency and facilitating access to capital. Here again I express the key expectation of the New Slovenia Group, and this is that the Company for Bank Claims Management will manage the most competent Slovenian cadre. Even so, we do not mind if a top foreign manager or financial expert sits on the board and works for the interests of Slovenia. In the face of all the mistakes in the management of certain state-owned business entities – I stress, in state-owned property – we often have the question of whether we have enough competent people at home; people who are decorated with business ethics, managers who could face difficult problems in the management of state property that have not put under the hands of AUKN the expected financial effects for the better welfare of citizens. I would like to highlight three more conclusions or recommendations from the New Slovenia Group and members of the New Slovenia Committee of Experts on the Economy, which also includes experts with international experience in the most prominent global financial institutions. Firstly, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the stability of banks is good. Green light was given by the European Central Bank, a public document signed by the President of the ECB, Draghi. The ECB's comments were taken into account with the amendments. Secondly, particular attention should be paid to the management of the Bank Claims Management Company. This must be professional in the broadest sense of the word. Managers of the so-called bad bank should give an annual report on their assets. Thirdly, the wages of the managers of the Bank Claims Management Company should depend largely on the success of the business, i.e. on the speed and efficiency of solving problems – moderate basic wages and significant bonuses for the success or efficiency of the Bank Claims Management Company. New Slovenia has actively participated in the drafting of the draft law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. I thank all the members of this group from this city, of course, not only the representatives of New Slovenia. Thank you all for your efforts — many of them. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I announce my support for the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the suspension of the application or the rejection of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in the referendum. In the New Slovenia Group, however, we would like the "Stand Together" action to continue today as well as the coming days, and then we will all be winners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u15	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Respected and respected! The referendum is a constitutional right, Mr Horvat, either pumped or not pumped. It is also a constitutional right to verify that the possible rejection of the law at the referendum would have counter-constitutional consequences. Everything else that is going on around this and other referendum initiatives is a great scandal and a disgrace to Slovenia and your entire coalition. Lose your signatures. By noting that the signatures are too small, you wait until the last minute. You check the signatures of Members and Members of Positive Slovenia and, in this regard, Minister Gorenak and the leader of the largest government parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, even allow the police to share advice on how to verify our signatures. A scandal that we have not yet witnessed in Slovenia. But these are the methods and ways of ruling this coalition of yours to get out of the crisis, as you called yourself. When we drafted the Bad Bank Act, we naively believed that you were dealing with the rescue and resolution of the credit crunch. From day to day with your acts of despair, when you don't choose any more resources, how to prevent a referendum, you tell us there's something else behind this law. Your only wish and goal is to seize state property. One part you're going to buy through the bad bank and the other part through the state holding company. In explanation of today’s decision, you write that the enforcement of the law is the only way to remedy the unconstitutional situation. Unconstitutional status? Of course, this is not the case. By mistake, however, you forgot to withdraw this from the material you obviously took as a basis – and this is a constitutional assessment of the referendum on pension reform. Indeed, there was an end to the unconstitutional situation established by the Constitutional Court. In your case, of course, that's not true. Unless, in this government, the coalition itself sees an unconstitutional situation. You also write in your explanation that only under this law will a credit crunch be able to be released by dealing with bad claims outside banks. You know for yourself that's not true either. Your solution is by no means the only solution for our banks. There are also different, cheaper alternatives. But you don't even want to hear about them. You have done no comparative analysis to show us and all of Slovenia that your solution is the best and even the cheapest. Today, too, we will be pleased with these alternative solutions. Five billion is the amount we're talking about. That's the best we can do for this rescue. Five billion! Bad bank is a bad solution. This today is the slogan of those who want a referendum. A few years ago, Mr Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, said this. Why such a conversion in his thinking, he never explained it to us. We will not recapitalise and rehabilitate state banks with tax money – these are also the words of Minister Šuštersič. Today, 5 billion taxpayers' money is at stake. Two thousand 500 euros for each of our citizens. You say something and you do something else, and that's our biggest problem. Your non-creditability is our country's biggest problem right now. Let me also touch how and when bad or, if you want, the worst loans in our banks have been made. We all know, and we all know that this was in 2006 and 2007. How did these credits come about, who approved them, and who, and why did they get them? You're saying we're afraid of that. I think it's the other way around. In both of the largest state banks, where there are far worse loans, you have your own supervisory councils and your own administrations. All these people have access to credit cards and, where criminal acts have been committed, they are even obliged to initiate appropriate procedures or cases to report to the competent authorities. If they lack any further investigative competence, prepare amendments to the relevant legislation and we will support it. But you don't have to dig 5 billion holes in public finances to satisfy your detective instincts. Once again, we're on the verge of all the data being disclosed. If this requires a change of legislation, we will support it. I hope this is clear enough that no one in Positive Slovenia is afraid of this. Your proposal, because of everything that is going on around the referendums, Members of Parliament and Members of Positive Slovenia, we will not support it. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, today I would be delighted to have your views on this marriage with such loving threesomes. I am convinced that if we already had control of the troika, we would not be talking in this law or in this way about the rehabilitation of banks. Why? Because he's too expensive and he's gonna make a hole too deep in our public finances. Let me tell you, at the end of my three-way, what one of the Slovenian journalists wrote about your constant threats. If the troika comes to Slovenia, it will not be the irresponsible opposition or the unreasonable nation but the incompetent government. So if not out of love, at least out of necessity, start working for the good of our country, a respected coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u17	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a number of measures since 2009 and 2010 to come out of the crisis. These measures were largely not taken in the previous composition of the National Assembly, and one of these measures was the rehabilitation of the banking system. The rehabilitation of the banking system in a way that will be effective and that banks, when this recovery is over, will be in a better condition than they are today and that their fundamental purpose will be satisfied – that is, on the one hand, the security of savings and, on the other hand, the provision of support to the economy so that the economy can function successfully and competitively on the domestic and foreign markets. Unfortunately, in the past and at the time of the crisis, not much has happened in the banking sector except that the country, as owner, has rehabilitated the banking sector by recapitalising the banks. Banks have spent this money on weaknesses and this money has not actually reached the economy. This means, of course, that the money was ineffectively spent on the one hand or that the bankers also used it to satisfy the capital adequacy of the banks. This law, which was made during the summer months — of course, time demanded that the law be supplemented in the autumn months — is one of the solutions that is not the usual solution for our banking, economic and economic space. Why not? Because we came to the conclusion that the banks were not able to resolve the bad claims themselves. Therefore, these claims are transferred to a specially established company, assessed in accordance with the methods prescribed by the European Commission – thus preventing any moral hazard – and this company will issue bonds with State guarantees to these banks. This means, in other words, that the country will actively participate in this and that the bank will actually make a better investment. By obtaining a better investment, of course, it will also be able to have more appropriate results or more appropriate balance sheets so that it can credit the economy. This law or measure does not exclude other measures on the banking system, and we have never covered our eyes that it is only this law and only the enforcement and implementation of this law that will save our banking system. Even with this system, it is possible to recapitalise banks, but with this recapitalisation and the fact that we have a law to resolve bad claims, this fresh money will be used to credit the economy. And the opposition has constantly warned us that more resources and more energy must be directed towards development. I don't understand. I don't know how the opposition imagines development without a healthy banking system. How do you imagine development by not being able to follow ideas, innovations – innovations if you want! – individuals, including good companies that export to foreign markets. And this is happening today, and I don't really understand in any other way how development is supposed to start with us. With foreign capital. I agree. Home capital. I agree. But all this capital needs banks. Those of us who have ever worked in the economy know this well, and here we do not blind ourselves to the possibility that this is possible without a banking system. It's not possible without the banking system. In addition to recapitalisation, better bank management should be ensured in banks, in particular in state banks. This is also a measure to be taken by the State as the owner of the largest banks. It must also ensure the cost-effectiveness of banks. It must also ensure that banks are better able to invest free resources. This is not just one measure, this is a combination of measures, and this is what we talk about all the time, and we explain it all the time, unfortunately some people don't hear it. The next question is whether this power, this coalition, this government, and so on, will acquire property. No, ladies and gentlemen, she will not actually buy any property with this law. The state has as much property as it has. Unfortunately, this property is less valuable from day to day, not because the country wants it, but because it shows us the market and today we are in the market economy. We are not in a diagnost economy, a planning economy, when some have been able to determine the value of assets from a position of power. Today, the credit rating houses show us whether we are satisfied with them or not, whether we have a European or not – we will probably have one – but these credit houses show us, of course, the market position, the financial position, the economic situation and, of course, the price of money. And this price of money is high today. It is also high because we are waiting, we are begging with measures, including measures for the rehabilitation of banks. In view of these measures, they could have been taken much earlier. After all, this law allows banks to resolve these claims themselves. To present the programme, they send it to the Ministry of Finance or the Government, which will review it, approve it and the banks can actually do it themselves. And that's three state banks that haven't done that to this day. They're all left. This, of course, makes it completely incomprehensible to oppose these solutions of the opposition, on the other hand of course also important politicians in the country and not the last trade unions. It is completely incomprehensible because this measure is in favour of the economy. To the benefit of the economy getting healthy money for healthy development. And because of this, in fact, the requirement for a referendum and slowing down the implementation of this law actually means that there will be less money in the economy, of course less jobs, means more unemployment and so on. And that's incomprehensible. There is certainly a lot of talk about this law, and, after all, a lot of demagogism, a lot of populism about what it wants, in order to cover up the fundamental purpose of the economy, this is the start of the economy, this is development, this is more jobs. Populism, demagogism, and, last but not least, provocations do not solve the crisis. The crisis is tackled by bold measures, through a combination of these measures, and it is only in this way that it is necessary to get support not only from employers, but also from trade unions and, ultimately, from the political public. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the decision to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the refusal of the Act to strengthen the stability of banks in the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u19	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u20	The Slovenian state is based on the democratic will of people. In these exceptional historical periods, this statehood has been created from the bottom up. In these exceptional historical times, the democratic will of the people has decided that we will be Slovenian masters on our land. It was also a promise, and it was a dream that we had as a nation 20 years ago because we believed that we would better manage our destiny as masters of our land. Therefore, democratic rights, the constitutional right to referendum, must always and consistently be defended. Social Democrats will always defend it because statehood itself is based on it. That's why we're defending her this time. We are always prepared to give up the possibility of policy generating referendum issues on its own. However, we are never prepared to deny the people the possibility of deciding on the fundamental issues of the Slovenian present, and even more, the Slovenian future. We do not have debts – we do not have debts to transition elites, which were able to use the transition time to enrich and privatise until yesterday's common assets and we do not have debts to the rematching right, the only consideration of which is the establishment of an economic elite capable of providing lasting political and value-added power in Slovenia. But we have a debt to people. We know how to judge our behavior. And we are critical of our actions. In doing so, we find that our government's attempts to solve the bank spasm problem have not been sufficient. For the first time, because, comparatively with other countries, we have invested significantly less public funds than Germany, the Netherlands, Austria in the rehabilitation of the banking system. Secondly, because we hope to become a mature society and that policy is capable of cancelling interventions to the management of important economic systems, we have also refrained from acting where this was obviously necessary – in banks. That is why we look at the problem very unburdened today, all the time, all the time, we point out that the overindebtedness of the Slovenian economy and the consequent credit crunch is a key problem that prevents the Slovenian economy from recovering from the crisis. All the time! But we cannot and must not go beyond the reasons that brought Slovenia into this crisis, which has caused its recovery to be as weak as it is. To solve this problem, we have a responsibility to understand its causes. At the beginning of this millennium, Slovenian banks were capital-intensive banks that had significant liquidity reserves abroad, mostly state-owned – and this was an advantage in assessing their credit ratings, and not a weakness, because back there was a strong country that would know and be able to intervene in the event of shocks. They were relatively cautious and conservative in taking on investment risks and were extremely competitive. They had a relatively strict control of the regulator in the industry, which has already been regulated in one way or another due to European and national legislation. Banks have relatively low capital in relation to the ten times the assets they actually manage. Banks are not just one of the companies. Banks provide the basic infrastructure for the functioning of the whole economy, for the functioning of people. Banks decide whether the accumulation created by Slovenia, created by our companies created by our people, will be invested here or will be invested elsewhere. Banks decide that! They thus set both the scope and the conditions of investment and thus have a significant impact on development and opportunities for economic growth. It is important that we are aware that no mature Western European country has left a dominant influence on its own banking system to foreigners. Why? Because it's too important. I know that many in this Parliament and also in the public are full of interpretations of national interest. A country without national interest is not worth being a country and banks are a matter of first-class national interest. We call on you not to waste long-term opportunities for development, for stable and sustainable development, of Slovenian communities, in order to solve this problem. In analysing the problem, we need to focus on the period 2004 to 2008. Not because we would like to point to the government of Janez Janša, but because it happened there – then – something that made it difficult for Slovenia to continue. The ratio between the deposits received and the loans granted was 87 more in 2004 – this means that the deposits were higher than the loans that Slovenia and the Slovenian banks gave. In 2008, this ratio was 163. Credits greatly exceeded collected deposits and Slovenian banks were indebted to the interbank market. That the problem is not only in state banks, but that the problem in state banks is even comparatively smaller than in private foreign banks, shows that this average was in 2008 in Nova Ljubljanska banka 134 in Nova Kreditni banka Maribor and 119 in Novi Kreditni banka Maribor. The national average is 163. Foreign private banks were significantly more at risk and were significantly more exposed to the creation of this large gross external debt, which Slovenia has processed in four years. And that's why it's not true that the problem comes from state banks! It is not true that a private and foreign bank is the solution to our problems! So we need to find a solution to this problem. This solution is the most expensive among the options given and does not promise a key objective – and this is the rehabilitation of the banking system and the start-up of lending. It is a technically complex operation that opens the door wide to moral gambling, and we fear that if this solution succeeds, we will have a severe headache over the years when we watch individuals, whether they are associated with the current political elite or not, at the expense of the legal options that we have opened up to them by this law. More. The experience of other countries, such as the United States, shows that at the beginning of the crisis they have been betting on similar measures that the government of Janez Janša is now betting on, but they have found that they will not solve the problem and have gone into a much simpler operation, and this is the recapitalisation of banks. And you say, "So far we have invested so much and so much money in Slovenian banks!" Part of this money, most of which is EUR 1.9 billion, we have invested because Slovenia had a foreign exchange issue in the 1990s, not because banks themselves would have a problem. The problem is that in the crisis, when the Slovenian financial and banking system needed to be strengthened, we have not invested enough and have not regulated governance – even more so, with the actions of this government, we have reopened the policy door to political interference in the most important economic institutions in the country. So we recommend that the government consider it. The referendum will in itself be the responsibility of the government. We hope that the Government is aware of this and therefore we urge it to find other more effective solutions in time, now. The Communication on the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor may be a small signal that the Government of this problem is beginning to be aware in the right way. The rule of law is a reasonable expectation that people's expectations will be guaranteed through the mechanisms of this rule of law. What signal do we give to this country by requiring it to assess the constitutionality of the referendum on the bad bank law? With what argument do we go before the Constitutional Court and demand that the referendum be assessed as an unconstitutional consequence? There is no valid argument to justify this behaviour. There is no argument that would really justify the existence of the anti-constitutional consequences of the existing regime referred to by the applicants. This assessment of constitutionality is just a manoeuvre that is necessary to reach out for more correct and timely solutions. The government refers to the need for time and, in fact, with the same step, this timeliness is delaying itself. It's an insult to the constitutional order. It is a message that everything is allowed in the process to always benefit from procedural rights, regardless of the truth, the reality of the situation, is justified. And apparently the truth is no longer relevant. Apparently, the goal is to devote resources. What a resounding judgment this week gives us a strong message - no matter what we hear, no matter what we know, no matter what is true, now we must all work together, that it does not exist and that it is not the truth. Respect for the rule of law imposes on us the following. The social democrats of the request, to put it mildly, cannot support a weakly justified requirement to assess the constitutionality of the referendum on a bad bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Mr Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone! In this small country of ours, the Shentflorian really smells pretty bad and it's always more so. We're losing our signatures for the referendum. Young people flee to foreign lands when we once educated them because they do not find employment, work, and space to create a family. We get the conclusions of a court ruling when it was mentioned earlier, where one asks: What is going on? Why does our legal system completely fail and not work in any field? There's probably something wrong with the system itself. I'm not saying that the conviction was wrong. If the conviction was correct, then that judge, who knew from the beginning that he had not enough evidence, held two years and how many, these people, were completely unjustifiable in prison and violated their civil rights. There are so many strange things happening everywhere and in all areas around here that you really don't have to understand them. We are now discussing a referendum, a constitutional initiative for a bad bank. The sparrows are chirping that there's something wrong with our banking system. The European Union, the whole world is warning us. For six months or one year or so, we are negotiating a version of a solution, and now that we have reached it, we are trying to prevent it from going into effect. Was everything really right in this banking system of ours? Did we really solve the problem correctly when we recapitalized these banks without asking where the money was going? I know that we lost here — at least 10 billion money we threw out the window, despite all the controls and no matter when it happened. The banks shall determine at any moment how much write-off is to be made. I read that they already wrote down 780 million euros this year. How long before the end of the year are they gonna figure out how many more of these things are going to happen? All these things were well known at the time of the loan and that was also known to the Bank of Slovenia, which did nothing. I don't know how these people think who practically let such a theft in our society. You can't give credit – and this is a huge loan – for speculative company purchases and so on. Big millions! You can't give credit with a stock flag. People, other banks didn't do this because they cared about their economy and didn't have write-offs, and only in state banks could this happen. I can say that in the world of Banka Slovenije – and this has been confirmed by the Governor – in 2007, it was this or in 2006, he asked whether we are really lending loans with a flag of shares to cover these loans, and those that are yet to be bought. The answer was yes! I wonder if you know that such credit coverage is very bad and how this credit will return – such a speculative purchase – and what price you take into account for what the market value of the stock is. And I asked if we know that at this point this price is ten times too high before this fall occurred. Yes! They then acted and no longer allowed to set up shares that were not owned by the borrower and ordered the Bank of Slovenia to consider only 50 % of the market value as a flag value. Nevertheless, I say that most of these credits were placed and given — in advance, it was known that this money would be lost. And so we lost a lot of money, threw it out the window. Now, when we want to stop it, when we want to look at what was going on in some way, and we want to put the system on our feet, we listen, for the first time, to the opposition, then to the unions, and I don't know who else, the State Council – what for God's sake is wrong here to try to solve something. Yeah, I can't understand how people can spit in their own bowl with their actions, because I stole those banks and made it impossible for them to have paid lunches, that we have to cut social transfers, and all of that. However, we want to maintain the privileges that some have had at all times and at all costs. Yeah, because here in our debate, it's slowly coming to the day who these uncles are from the background that everyone's wondering about. We're going to have a little discussion, and it's going to come out when we get the data, who has the most in their accounts abroad or even in our country. And I cannot understand that we simply insist on this and see no reason why we should not deviate from these actions and allow ourselves somewhere to improve our position and economic position. Do we know that such conduct, not the execution of certain conclusions or anything, has the application of certain laws that are urgently needed already cost us enormously? Only our interest rate and our credit ratings have led us to say that we have 5% more expensive loans at the annual level than they were at the initial stage. Any percentage that makes the situation 20 billion in debt worse for us is 200 million euros - 1% means that. And we don't care what they think, how we get new credits, we defend things, and we want to protect in any way the interests of some who have fished in this and have brought great benefits. I really want to see that in some way we stop arguing and start doing what we're set up to do. Unions should fight for the rights of their workers, not to allow them to continue to be able to claim their assets. So also Members, because I don't know, because it looks like we are actually – whether we're such naive enforcers of some kind without knowing or having any of this, or whether we have any of it when we take these things in this way and find them. So that I would say once again that it would be right to change something in our heads to support this, and somewhere we are trying to make this country more friendly to our people, to try to ensure that we improve the competitiveness of our economy, and above all to ensure that we are able to open up new jobs with us – the only thing that leads us out of the crisis is this – and we must prevent all the things that have happened in our society that have made us poor. Personally, I am ashamed when you discuss the same things for the fifth time, and you tell the convinced who are following specific orders very well. We in the National Gazette will support the proposal for a constitutional assessment. We hope that the Constitutional Court will find out how much damage is done by non-implementing this law, and I fear nothing for all the things they threaten. I see no fear, and I am sure that this law will be implemented as soon as possible. Every day it costs us a few million euros to discuss this; but if we ask people who are not interested in what, what, and how – they are interested in how they live – I mentioned at the outset that we should start dealing with how we will ensure a better life for our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u23	On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Dear, good day to you all! In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not remember the last time of such a long and thorough debate on a marriage proposal and that the position and opposition would remain conceptually on such different shores. We all agree that something must be done in the Slovenian banking system. True, some claim that there is a problem in businesses and not in banks. These have not been seen in the minority and probably entrepreneurship from far away. But with this consensus that something has to be done, it's all over. After months of talks we are still talking about two different concepts and two minutes before the twelfth, the opposition and the unions want a complete change in the concept of this planned state intervention in banks. As we listen to constant and repeated criticism at the expense of the coalition, we must acknowledge in the Slovenian People's Party that sometimes we no longer know what the parliamentary opposition wants from us. Whatever we want to do, we're a target critic. If we do not do the same, we are also the target of criticism. If we say we're going to recapitalise banks, we're going to listen to the obvious evidence that this is not in line with our pre-election forecasts. If we say we don't recapitalize them, then we threaten jobs, we rob the country, we sell assets. If you explain a thousand times that for us the concept of gradual recapitalisations – in translation, the continuation of money-sharing to banks without supervision – does not apply, the opposition insists even more on the opposite. Of course, because it sounds so good in the camera to talk about spending $5.6 billion. The Finance Minister, who has already repeated thousands of times that it is a matter of state guarantees and that only the upper limit is written in the law, is having difficulty competing with the parliamentary stages that cry out about the robbery of the century, the sale of property and talking about the most expensive solutions possible. It is interesting, however, that opponents of the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks are not the only ones, how much their alternative solution costs and whether they would save anything. There are billions, twos, threes in Parliament. According to some informal estimates, the poor claims in the banking system are estimated to amount to around €6 billion. From this point of view, talking about a more expensive and cheaper solution is empty talk, because in fact, the loving alternative solution is not really represented by numbers. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are really afraid that there is no real alternative plan to actually clean bank balance sheets. The continued maintenance of banks in intensive care with a few hundred million euros does not benefit anyone every six months and does not mean a shift in the resolution of credit crunches. Therefore, I cannot help but feel that this bitter opposition to this law has led me to think that there is something else behind it. Is it really not part of the fear that comes from that famous article, which foresees a much longer limitation period for all acts related to the granting of suspicious credits without coverage? Is it really not possible that credit maps of bad claims will open and that skeletons will start falling from them? And if it is true that most tycoon loans were granted in the 2004-2008 mandate, then what is the problem? On schedule with these credit maps – in the Slovenian People's Party we have no problems with this! Now, allow me to proceed to the request for constitutional review. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the rejection of this law can actually result in the State being prevented from fulfilling its obligations. This may not happen solely because of the content of this law. What's much more worrying is the psychological effect. If anyone thinks that rejection of this law would mean a political breakdown of the current government, that is the least of our concerns. Things are gonna get a little more complicated. Rejection of this law would be the Czech at the top of the fruit bowl, which would loudly report to Europe and the world that there is no agreement in Slovenia, as well as no solution, and the consequences will be here. Nothing will help to protest that we did not think that credit rating agencies were wrong to be unfair and similar. Nothing will help convince some politicians that it is not just so bad for us. We'll only feel the consequences in our wallets. If I express myself completely pragmatically, it doesn't matter whether we're arguing here or whether it's a reform law or not. This is a confirmed measure by the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. The European Community and all the relevant institutions have taken it as an essential step towards our progress, to reverse the trend of economic downturn. For them, the law is reformary and its collapse will be seen as a fall of reform, regardless of what we are discussing here in Slovenia and what unions think about it. There's a lot of talk about the profession in this marriage. Interestingly, this is where the division occurred, too, if you think of serious and unserious economists. At the same time, it is imperative to point out that all so-called serious economists are those who have considered themselves to be very strong for over 60 years and have already demonstrated their knowledge in the former common country. While younger ones — those who also attended economic schools abroad and published articles in internationally recognized professional magazines — are considered unrealistic. What's their fault? More or less they support a bad bank because they don't see any other alternatives. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are convinced that all colleagues and colleagues here in the Chamber still have a crystal clear view of what the referendum "no" means to this solution. It means immediate loss of confidence in financial markets. I must say, I'm personally fascinated by how carefree and easy you look at this and talk to people in camera so nothing happens. It is not about hurting the minister or any coalition member or whole government. This insistence on the referendum is detrimental to the state, because we will have very soon a capital-inadequate bank. Poor claims today exist and are as they are – they will not disappear. Either she's going to try to save a special company or we're going to do it by giving the banks the money directly, eventually in theory the amount they need is the same. Banks need a certain amount of money in one way or another. A mental leap — and we are fundamentally different — that we have decided to choose the option when a special agency deals with bad bank claims. We're not leaving this to the banks anymore. In doing so, I would like to recall the words of our most respected banker, Mr Frances Arhar, who said at one of the meetings of the Finance Committee: "Where have you been for the last four years with a proposal on bad banks within banks themselves?" UniCredit set up an internal bad bank in 2008. Where were the critics of today? Where was then someone who was responsible for the state finances that didn't go to see what was going on there? Today, we no longer have time to impose on bankers the systematic management of bad claims. Today, we need banks to be the first support to the economy by lending. The opposition says it is all because of the over-indebtedness of companies, but we know examples of good, successful, low-indebted companies that do not receive money from these same banks. Of course, some find it elsewhere, either in foreign banks at home or abroad. We own a bank that does not borrow and that does not lend to the economy – that is the essence of the problem and also the essence of this constitutional judgment. The State has a large part of the expenditure side of the budget legally determined. Let us just remind ourselves of the social transfers, which amount to about a billion euros and a bonus from the pension budget, which is almost a billion and a half. If we don't get rid of the credit crunch, I don't even think about what drastic contractions are promising in both social and elsewhere. Is that what we want? If the law falls, the problem will remain – it will not disappear – only the implementation of the budget will be much more difficult. Your Honor! According to the Slovenian People's Party, such a question as the way banks are being rehabilitated is not a matter for referendum decision-making. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the request for a constitutional review of the referendum requirement. But if it comes to him, we believe that people will still be overpowered by reason. They will put their political beliefs aside for a moment and do what is best for them and the least that will affect them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Procedural, Mr. Tanko? No, no, no. As a proponent. Okay. So as a proposaler, Mr Tanko, and then Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I have fewer procedural proposals in this mandate, and those who are are on the spot when they are. The thing that we are dealing with today is an integral part of the envisaged procedures when dealing with similar things. As with the possibility of requiring a referendum on a particular case and such as the possibility of a veto being voted on, the requirement to assess the validity of the law or the law going to the referendum is also an integral part of the procedure. This isn't about any abuse, any use of any power. What we wrote in the argument as proponents is our view of the matter from a constitutional point of view, and if anyone disagrees with it, it is also acceptable. That's why we have coalition and opposition, and that's why we have more parties in the National Assembly. Whether these reasons are right or wrong will be decided by the Constitutional Court, whether we like it or not. And the Constitutional Court, if this decision goes forward, will decide whether the referendum will or will not. So there's no problem in that sense. All this talk about whether it's too expensive or the most expensive way we've chosen to save banks or not, it's a matter of judgment. So far, we have had some very cheap ways of solving the banking system. Something very cheap. We had recapitalizations. More or less, all the recapitalisations were made by budgetary means, that is to say with taxpayers' money, and finally, when we did it in a valuable way, nothing happened. No rationalisation in the banking system, not in one bank that has been recapitalised, nor in the other or third bank where the recapitalisation is carried out. As a result, directors had the same salary and rewards, the bank calculated the same or even higher costs in the business of citizens and the economy and so on. No rationalisation has been fully developed. It also revealed nothing and identified the responsibilities of why recapitalisation was needed. Not all recapitalisations were needed solely because of global or previous global crises. Many recapitalisations were needed because the supervision of banking was not regulated and because no one in this banking system was responsible for what he was doing. When it simply came to a point where the matter should collapse, there was a responsible or irresponsible policy and voted or decided what it had decided. So that's the state we inherited. It is also necessary to find out in some way that the model to do only recapitalisation or to separate the system – that is, good from bad and help in the good work of what needs to be done and for the purpose that we have written, and to analyze and verify the bad part. I think that this solution is much cleaner than if we were to provide money again for some temporary operation of the banking system or these state banks. There would be absolutely nothing there. And I think that things need to be split up, determined, cleared up and added to the point that at least the healthy part that will remain in banks, in banking work, will function and allow what we now call the removal of credit crunches for the economy and perhaps for what. The fact that some other countries have carried out a significantly greater recapitalisation into the banking system than ever before by Slovenia cannot be avoided. We will never provide as much money for the operation of the banking system as we do for neighbouring Austria. I guess we won't. Above all, it is necessary to first clarify what is linked to bad decisions. In the banking system, in our banks there were probably significantly more resources allocated on the basis of good connections, on the basis of knowledge, on the basis of society and memories, and more than in the average European country with the euro. Neither has there been or has there been an average of so many missed purchases and investments in any European country - let's say in the Balkans - as banks have done, not just banks, but some companies that are now withdrawing and finding that big holes have been created there. That's what happened. This happened because he was present for so - called or actual moral gambling. If there was no moral gambling, there would be no such speculation, then there would be no such loss and there would be no tycoons or anything like that. This has happened solely because of the way in which it works and the inadequate control of it. And there's also a lot of these accusations about someone taking possession of someone's assets once in the future. You know, someone else's property has been favored by those who are persecuted by creditors. We have some of these cases, some very resonant cases. And those persecuted by creditors with valid court decisions are those who have taken possession of someone else's property. This is done in such a way that it is demonstrated in judicial proceedings that it is recovered in judicial proceedings after, if not otherwise, recovery. It is not ethical, however, that this moral gamble and that it is discussed in relation to a future story. But that probably doesn't work, because when you talk about moral gambling when you talk about taking property, then it's about some actual event that's being processed. If the trustee doesn't decide to do that, he won't. And we know these stories. And more or less, part of these discussions is the product of this agitprop school. These things that you are saying, you really need to take with a lot, a lot of reserves, especially the inverse, this is saying 1 with x is the right function for what you said in Positive Slovenia or in the position of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Replica, Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u28	The ruling majority likes to recall the recapitalisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank last year or in 2010. They say it was carried out by the Capital Investment Management Agency, under political mentoring. This was also one of the key reasons why two members of the Capital Investment Management Agency were dismissed. I recommend that we go with memory in 2007, in the time of the government of Janez Janša, when the 381 million-million-dollar recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank was carried out. Mr. Tanko, in what way? By calling the directors of important state-owned companies and ordering them to buy shares of the New Ljubljana Bank for the recapitalisation of the bank, when the price of that stock was significantly higher than it is today. So much for that. Another time. The new Ljubljana Bank is not interesting in perspective because it is a Slovenian bank, it is interesting because it is one of the few regional players in the area of south-eastern Europe. When assessed by foreign potential investors before the crisis, they considered it interesting because it is a strong, stable regional bank in an area with the greatest potential for future growth in banking and financial services in Europe, since the Balkans, with these services today, are, in reality, well undercapitalised. And I suggest that when we look at the branches of the New Ljubljana Bank in the Balkans, let us not forget that they are profitable in many ways – that they are good banks. That this property of the New Ljubljana Bank in the Balkans represents real value, for example, if, in the years following the crisis, after the bank has been rehabilitated, we really decided to get the country out of its property. At that time, precisely because of this regional dimension of this bank, we will be able to better cash this bank as a country – if we are already selling it, and I do not think we should sell it because it is important that the national economy draws on its future development in terms of possibilities. This private bank will never be able to secure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Minister Shuštersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Nicely greeted! The question was asked what the troika would say about these measures. I know exactly what to say. About a month ago, the International Monetary Fund was a regular mission in Slovenia. In their report, they expressed very positive comments about the Government's plans to resolve bad bank claims and explicitly about this solution that we have proposed. This was made public, and a representative of the International Monetary Fund made this at a press conference. This report of the International Monetary Fund was discussed at the meeting of the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund on Wednesday. The joint statement of the European Union on what we are doing in Slovenia was presented at this meeting. This joint statement of the European Union also states: "To ensure the normal functioning of banks is crucial for the restoration of private sector lending." This is an answer to all those who say that such a measure has nothing to do with lending to the private sector. If I read further: "Reforms in state-owned banks are necessary to limit the potential public financial impact that has already emerged to a certain extent, to strengthen the corporate governance system and to attract foreign investors. The first steps to this end are appropriate, in particular by establishing the Bank Claims Management Company and adopting the Slovenian State Holding Act." And then it goes on to say, "The legislation adopted must be enforced immediately. Delays in implementing these laws are worrisome, may increase the need for additional capital," it said, rejecting this solution leads to more expensive than cheaper solutions, "but in general triggers negative signals on reforms in Slovenia, which will further undermine the exit from the crisis." So much for what the three of us would say if we had it, and that means that what we're doing, what we're proposing, is the best way to avoid the three of us. As for other substantive arguments — including those in your debates — you have made, according to one web of coincidences, that the Government has only five minutes to discuss today. I don't think that's much of a damage. I have answered all these questions, which you have reopened, for a long and wide answer in the State Council, in committee meetings and in public, to trade unions and so on. Now, if you don't understand, maybe even if you were talking for 45 minutes today or an hour, you wouldn't understand. But maybe what I've read to you before is that you might think that at least roughly what we're doing and that someone else understands it, not just us. Briefly on the questions raised. About the price of a bad bank. You keep repeating the 4 billion that are the upper limit and which are the gross price. The guarantees issued at the beginning of the process – we keep repeating that these guarantees will be reimbursed by the sale of funds transferred from banks and by the disposal of state shares in banks. Why? Because they will be transferred at real economic value. You talk about alternative solutions all the time. We have already explained several times that this law, which is supposed to go to the referendum, also contains extensions for alternative solutions. On the basis of this law, it is envisaged to establish a Bank Claims Management Company, but it is possible to provide a guarantee for an internal bad bank if it is assessed – this is stated in the law – that this would be more effective and cheaper in a particular case, and that it is possible to recapitalise banks. All the solutions that are needed are said to be in this law and none of these solutions will be possible if this law is rejected at the referendum. What then remains, as an alternative, and I have already told you today. As for my writings about the bad bank – they are not one year old, they are as old as the beginning of the crisis, from the first year of the Pahor government. At the time, the situation was significantly different. The scope of the bad claims in banks was significantly lower, it was not a systemic problem – it was a problem of one bank, not more than two banks. Most importantly, this law, which we are proposing and which also has very clear provisions that these claims and those shares should then be resold, does not pave the way for sustaining the economy, but implies that this does not happen, which was then one of the key arguments. I can live a much better life with my consistency than you probably can with understanding what I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko made a statement on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. If the situation in the branches of our banks in the Balkans were really so rosy, then our banks would not have problems either in the branches or in the consolidated balance sheet. Both are problems and our banks, not NKBM, not NLB, not Abank, would not need additional resources for their operations. None of these — all three of us talk about large stakes. All three banks are also forecasting a significant current loss this year. So those who talk so easily about the performance of the banking system as well as our system banks, you probably do it for other reasons, not for material or data purposes. It's just not like that. If that were not the problem, we would not be discussing in past years and even now that there is something that needs to be done and that there is a need to provide budgetary resources. By the way, as I mentioned earlier, most of the recapitalisations were made through budgetary resources. I would very much like to hear, for example, in the previous term, the debate of anyone from the Directorate of Budget who provided this money for the banks and listened to all the warnings that would have been given. All of them! I wouldn't overhear any of them, just as I'm not hearing any warning from anyone here today – because I'm not going to answer everything, but some. We have been waiting for a number of warnings from the Directorate for Budgets about why they would be and whether recapitalisation is necessary or a problem. That wasn't there. I must say that some of the debates are merely speculative, purely political in nature, and not based on substantive data, nor on arguments, but are simply to do something or show how bad this should be. When it was time for us to make recapitalisations with state resources, budget or state assets, there were no such warnings – but it went over 80 million to Adrio Airways and we have again, I think 17 million euros in current losses; it went to NLB and we have problems; it went to NKBM from state sources 48 million and we have again 90 million current losses, I think 9 months. We don't know what's gonna happen in the end. And that's the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honor! Today, virtually everything has been said about the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, so there is nothing new about the views of the sending groups. That's why banks only come up in the last sentence of this. After hours of meetings and exhaustion, in the manner of marathons or if I say in chess, repetition of moves, we have reached the end of – the requirement to assess the constitutionality of consequences. So, what are the consequences? So where did it get stuck, and what went wrong in this process? There have been several mistakes. I'm going to mention, above all, what seems essential to me. A political error has been made in the fact that the Government has, and with it, you, colleagues in the coalition, without or for a reason, especially over measure, relied on the political authority it holds in its hands — and this is not disputed. She underestimated, and that would sound paradoxical, the social will she had before a year ago. She underestimated the power of those who are in the same boat, but only their hands were oarsing and here and there different views of the direction of navigation. The document, which we will most likely send to the Constitutional Court today, is the result again – the result of this omission, this error, which has been constantly happening in this process. Whatever the law was already called – and by the way, I don't know if he had 33 articles and 99 amendments – at the time of the change, he once called himself a lifeline, once a runner, once a lever, but, of course, he can, as we can see, also fall on the the thesis that the only option is him and that there is virtually no alternative for him. This was confirmed five minutes ago by Minister Šuštersič in his performance. This thesis is governed by a well-known mechanism that is not overly interested in consequences that are not overly interested in injury and damage that may occur in society. But it is best specified by the sentence given at the time of the adoption of the ZUJF about six months ago: "The one who does not understand what is going on is the one who does not understand." It's the one who doesn't understand what this is about. That's what the Prime Minister said, and today we heard him again, and this time four minutes ago, from Minister Šuštersič's mouth. So what's this all about? Of course there's a problem, there's a big problem. The problem of banks, the problem of the economy, the problem of economic growth – it all exists. The blindness before reality has hit this country several times, many times over the past 10 years, and it has been at home and visited every party and each interest group, in fact. The consequences were great for the citizens and the country – they are amazing today. We are in a position where intelligence, goods, services, capital, the environment do not communicate with each other. Politics doesn't communicate. We don't communicate with each other. Money is careful, so it's impervious. Companies are waiting for investments, the country is waiting, the invisible deadline of the market is waiting, and it is said in a spasm. Everybody's waiting! We're in a big social waiting room and we talk through each other, often very loudly, that something has to be done. The method, the way you do something and the responsibility are not unknown. It's a way, gentlemen. It's a consensus. Long-term state policy without consensus cannot, it is also a sound policy. What about responsibility? It is linked to the way, the method, and the political twists, whether it is a slip or a success, it is quite clear that the key responsibility is, as a rule, a stronger side. As a rule, it is borne by a stronger side, and this is in the government's negotiations. For such things, of course, the government must take time, take reason, be patient, and not take credit. Opportunities, Mr Tanko – now I see that he is gone – are not lost as long as they exist. That's what you need to know. And Tanko was the only one who was right about that. More than a year and a half ago, in this assembly, in the debate on the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank as a position member, I said a sentence, which I now have no problem repeating in the opposition. It goes like this: "The interests of the state are not only the interests of the rulings; and the interests of the parties who come into power cannot become the interests of the state." It didn't sound very good, and that's why we went on our own at the time — a few of our colleagues here remember it well, the story repeats itself. And this is about the law: I'm married by the logic of the owners and not by the logic of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk is next, then Mr Jurša and Mr Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! The motions for a constitutional assessment of the consequences of the referendum on a bad bank, according to the coalition parliamentary group, are convinced that the current legislation is unconstitutional because it does not allow the resolution of the banking system to be resolved. This is supposed to be the reason for the country's credit ratings to fall and, as a result, limited lending opportunities put public funding at risk. The coalition has apparently re-invented hot water, and it may even be able to re-innovate electricity by the end of its term of office. The fact is that the previous government had warned long before the Super Referendum Sunday, June 2011, that if Pahor's government's reform projects fell, our country's money in banking markets would become more expensive from month to month and thus increasingly unattainable. Of course, these warnings did nothing to help. With the assistance of most of the then opposition and trade unions, the laws at the referendums fell in line. In addition, some parties left the coalition, there was a political crisis and the first early elections in Slovenia alone. We spent almost a year on client political dribbling – the government was unable to act on the departure, and we only got a new one in February this year; and the first reform measure with the unfortunate ZUJF only in May 2012. So we lost a year of precious time. At the same time, I would like to quote one of the banking experts who told the Slovenian public that our banks had 2 billion net assets abroad in 2004 and by the end of 2008 we had up to 13 billion minus or net debt abroad. Of these, 2 thirds or 10 billion fell out between 2007 and 2008. The accelerated debt and overheating of the economy took place radically in the second part of the government, although the global financial crisis in the United States began in mid-2007. Neither the government nor the central bank nor the bank supervisors then acted. Surprisingly, at that time, the most generous and irresponsible loans were made by banks who were in foreign ownership — not by NLB and NKBM. At that time, Taliban loans amounting to EUR 2 billion, almost half at the expense of the Maribor Bell. Your Honor! The proposal to rehabilitate the banking system with the so-called bad bank is, according to the Bank of Slovenia, the association of banks and much of the professional public, three to four times more expensive than it could have been. The state budget would therefore burden €3-4 billion, which could be significantly better invested in development and investment measures and the social state; pensions, health and education. Before its decommissioning, the Capital Investment Management Agency has made a calculation in order to recapitalise Slovenian banks need around €1.2 billion, which is significantly less than the current government proposal. The government proposal has many weaknesses. First of all, because it's the highest possible burden of taxpayers. Second, because we're also saving foreign-owned banks. Thirdly, there is a great potential for abuse. And fourthly, because it is a technically weak and complex law and it is opposed to the vast majority of the professional public and also, or especially, the Bank of Slovenia. The undeniable fact is that the rehabilitation of banks is a key priority for Slovenia. This will only allow a faster extension of the economy and thus a boost to economic growth, but we believe that we can do this in a much cheaper and more transparent way. Of course, I will not support the conclusion of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, I welcome my colleagues and colleagues and others to the Chamber! In view of the many times that we have spoken about this in this Chamber, there are a lot of words spoken, but I would just like to add a few simple, simple ones, I could also say logical farm thinking, because I am not an economist, but I have listened carefully to the explanations of the parliamentary groups and I must admit that I liked the most discussion of the position of the parliamentary group presented by Mr Starman and concluded it in a way that we are working for the good of the country, its citizens and that we are dealing with what we have competences and that some others - he also mentioned - trade unions - are engaged in their tasks. If we do so, the results achieved are likely to be successful. Today, when I went to this meeting, someone from one group of Members said that now we're going to "beat" in the hall. Too bad and too serious a thing happens in this hall to go to the hall just to do it. I think it is somehow clear to us all that we must take decisive action to stabilise public finances and, in addition, the banking system in particular. To whom, I think, none of us are in the interest of not receiving adequate credit, business funds or development for our Slovenian economy. It's just not in this country. Independent entrepreneurs, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, my dears, are going abroad for credits, and this should be worrying. Especially those who are at the border, we hear very well from our fellow entrepreneurs, where and for what money they go abroad. If we're talking about 6 billion bad claims, I think we all know what kind of assets this is. Someone has already compared this matter today – and I think our representative who presented the parliamentary position – with the budget for next year. Almost, however, these poor claims would be aligned with the next year's budget. You know, these irresponsible loans without supervision went mainly for privatisation in favour of elites, not workers, people who worked in these companies. In specific cases, it can be said that individuals from the elite have taken loans – someone earlier said that on the basis of shares of companies they have not bought at all. Thus, that obligation has been imposed on the companies that have paid off the loans by becoming owners. It is logical and normal that these companies were exhausted and that they did not have the resources needed to develop and actually remained where they were so many and so many years ago. I think it is necessary to find out - and I think that the law also gives - who got the credits; who shared the credits; what the amounts of credit are; whether, and to what extent, the liabilities are paid; or whether our former neighbours from the common country are said to be involved in this exercise - whether the political partners are involved in this exercise. All of this, these people that I've counted before, must be brought before the hand of justice. If, in some part, this law also ensures this, we have somehow achieved our goal. You know, Slovenia can't be an oasis to say no to criminals and thieves – in this country, it simply and simply does not condemn any of them for such and other crimes. The Bad Banks Act would in any case allow this, and I will personally support this Constitutional Opinion. Thank you again very much for your words, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nicely greeted! In my debate today, I will try to answer the questions: why the rehabilitation of banks is necessary at all, what we have specifically proposed in the law and what will happen if this law is not adopted and would go to a referendum and be rejected at this referendum. Why is it necessary to rehabilitate banks? This is a question that many ask themselves. This was also discussed by those who organized various protests — we saw banners. Banks should be saved by bankers, the ones they've squandered, and the ones they've brought to the state they're in. Are they really saving them? Not them. Although banks say they are trying, they are in a situation that is not good for the Slovenian economy. I think that this situation requires certain measures. Why? Why should the whole country, all taxpayers, now save some banks, but if these banks have been set up by a completely third party. Because the bank is important in the economic system and logic goes something like this: if an entrepreneur has a good idea, it needs money to realize it, and when it realizes it, it creates new jobs. It is therefore necessary to rehabilitate banks in order to carry out their tasks in the banking system and in the entire economic system, to credit good businesses and to create new jobs – new jobs will create an inflow into the state budget. And in the end, when we draw the line, we get all citizens out of the bank's rehabilitation, not just bankers, as some are trying to explain. When we save banks, we save jobs on the one hand, and on the other hand we also save state property, these are state banks. Where did these state banks break down? Above all, where these state banks have been lending loans without any economic basis. This is a significant difference from commercial banks because they have given credit on the basis of a good name, based on the lobbying of individual senior political officials, i.e. without any economic coverage. And the situation is what we found today. Let me ask you another question. What exactly did our coalition propose? What did we suggest? We have proposed the concept of bank resolution, which includes the opposition concept and adds something new. If I split up, the opposition is pushing for recapitalisation to the best extent possible, to make it the cheapest way to get rid of it and so on. In our law, we allow this possibility, but at the same time we determine, we allow the establishment of a bad bank where banks would exclude some bad claims and transfer them to this bad bank. If I touch the recapitalisation first. We have been thrown into Slovenian banks in history, I say domestically, about a thousand 500 million euros. What results — that is the question! Those who advocate recapitalisation – your defense will be effective if you also explain why current investments and current recapitalisations have not been effective. On the other hand, a bad bank is an unfortunate name, but it speaks of a bank that has inherited investments being eliminated and transferred to an agency, and this agency manages these investments. Of course, this agency doesn't give money to the bank in cash, it gives it some bonds. However, the bonds are some kind of paper that banks are supposed to pay in some 5, 10 years, and we hope that this agency will already sell off these inherited investments that the banks have transferred to it. But the essential part of this story is that we cut off some of their stories from the banks and allow them to function normally. Historically, or we will not discover warm water — if we turn around the world and see what options other countries have, what other countries have chosen. On the one hand, we have Japan, which went into recapitalisation in the 1990s. They mark this period as a period of lost generation; there was virtually no progress and the problem as such has not been solved. The opposite is the Scandinavian countries, which in the 1990s applied the same principle that we are today applying. Specifically, what does the law propose? I have already said about Article 2 that it allows for both the opposition option and something new. Article 16 speaks of the fact that the National Assembly will still have one hand over this whole story. But the key to this whole thing is article 33, which extends out-of-date hands. My colleague Masha Kociper has already lost her hands there – I believe this article in article 33 of a lot of them bothers because it means that if a loan was issued, there is a credit card for such a loan and someone has signed it under this credit card. If he has given credit without economic grounds, it means he has damaged the bank and will have to answer for it. It is therefore appropriate to extend the limitation period. The last question I asked myself — what happens if we do not accept this law and if this law falls to the referendum? I believe it's much easier for the opposition to discuss and that a lot of things are easier for them, but when you're in the coalition, you have a responsibility to lead the country. The things you can read and have debated about – but once again, if this law falls, it is clear that the decline in credit ratings will continue to make access to money even more difficult or almost impossible. Now there will be no money to finance the current budget deficit, and the result is that we will not be able to finance certain, constitutionally guaranteed rights. Everyone probably understands that if there's no money, then there's no way you're financing those rights that are guaranteed in the constitution. That's the way it is. Remember, in the coming year, we have billions of debts that have been incurred in the past and still have to be repaid. If this marriage fails, we will likely be forced to ask for help — once we ask for help, we lose some of our sovereignty. Here are the unconstitutional consequences that we are talking about: the loss of sovereignty and the denial of payment of certain social and constitutional rights – and therefore it is extremely dangerous for this law to be rejected at the referendum. I see my colleague Bratuškov as an extremely brave Member because, in the fact that she was the Director of the Budget Directorate and that she was a member of the NKBM Supervisory Board, she was somehow responsible for this situation. And now you trust us, all Members, to teach us what should be done — but if she, in such or other functions, is responsible! This, of course, seems to me to be a courageous act — of course, the colleague of Bratuškova will say that she had nothing to do with her being just one of many. I didn't make these things up. If we went to look at her Facebook, we'd have a nice look at the inscription that said, among her achievements, that she was "responsible to the preparation and implementation of the state budget". Colleagues have already said that – because it was responsible for the implementation of the state budget – it would be very important to keep reminding us that excessive spending would be very harmful for Slovenia, and we see the consequences today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Madam Vice-President, I expected you to stop Mr Tonin in accordance with what you last talked about at the College. But I thank him — I thought he would stop or stop talking before he did the commercial. So, Mr. Tonin, thank you. I am sorry that the visible member of your party – this is Mr Bayuk – is no longer among us, because I could have told you a lot of things that I have warned you about. Mr Horvat, who is behind you, may know what about it, because he was also in Parliament at the time. So, I'm really sorry – I never avoid responsibility – but then relieve all the ministers, the president and hand over the authority to the officials. Please! It will be cheaper, the solutions will be more meaningful, more real, legal and more. Madam Vice-President, I ask that you, in accordance with what was agreed not to offend, accuse and so on – ensure this or, otherwise, allow to replicate this insult and misappropriation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u43	I didn't see any grave insults on my own. At the College, we made a number of other arrangements — and that the matter would be at least about equal, and I did not stop you now, and I could. Let's move on. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Dear Members and Members! In my opinion, the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the referendum is totally unjustifiable and unfounded and constitutes a strange delay.If you are in such a hurry to adopt this law that you have violated all the rules of procedure in Parliament in the process, then I do not know why this step is needed now, which, by law, is intended to challenge the referendum. For the Constitutional Court – and I will not explain again in detail – has made it very clear in the past that the existing regime must be anti-constitutional so that it can reject the referendum and that the new regime must remedy this unconstitutionality. Since that is not the case, this delay is obviously the real result of your fear of this referendum. Clearly, you're afraid to die of what people will decide about this, and I don't see any other reason. And the arguments of opponents of the referendum, how unfair it is to give people an opinion about a law that is extremely professional and difficult to understand for people, are also extraordinary, I will say, drawn from somewhere. The referendum is, however, intended for the most important issues, the most important decisions to be taken in the country. And if the way in which the $5 billion tax money will be spent and the way in which the banks will be cured is not something that people can claim, then I really don't know. But it is the task of us politicians to explain the key issues in this law in a way that people will understand. The key question is whether the burden of this extremely expensive bank resolution decided by this coalition will be paid exclusively by taxpayers or whether those who have caused it may be involved in paying that burden. Therefore, these delays, these objections to parliamentary initiatives, the loss of signatures and all these obvious expressions of fear of legitimate human decision-making. The law itself — of which much has been said — is the same as it is, and is at issue with me in particular because of two matters. The first is this fundamental injustice, which I have already talked about, who will pay the burden of this economic crisis. In order for people to understand, I will make a specific case. Instead of dealing with this mission, the church, which is carrying out a respectable mission, decided, over a period of time, to go through financial transactions with its bells instead of ringing. The result is almost 700 million damage to the taxpayers — nothing to those in this church who caused this damage to the owners! Is that fair? I don't think so. The second reason why I object to this law is that you are trying to give this law some enormous dimension of fair treatment to everyone who has ever done anything wrong in this country. I do not know how many of those who have spoken about it, Members and others have read it — because I have. In this law, only one article — and this is Article 33 — speaks of any responsibility. The article is relatively simple: it speaks of those who review credit maps having to report suspected crime services, or they may be able to do so as a reason for the dismissal or termination of the employment relationship, and of the extension of the obsolescence. And I'll touch the first one first. What is the purpose of this society that will manage bad claims? Is it intended to manage bad claims, it is said, will financial experts be there? Or maybe it's meant to hunt witches, because then there must be some other kind of people. Dr Ribnikar, a prominent expert in these matters, the age of Slovenian banking, a long-standing member of the Board of the Bank and a professor at the Faculty of Economics, said that in this case it would be best for Dr. Gorenak to take over the management of this company if it was intended. Not that poor people, economic experts, will deal with it and then look at the maps for a little bit. Where they have no other jurisdiction, Mr Tonin, than to report a crime, which is already possible. Such crimes must already be reported. Anyone who encounters a suspicion of a criminal service in his work must report it. You didn't find anything particularly revolutionary in this marriage. And the other thing. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] If you don't bother me during the debate, please. The second thing is a remarkable extension of the limitation period. I will not go to the debate about the fact that it is totally wrong for the limitation of the time limits for criminal offences to be extended in the Banks Act, since this is clearly the subject of a criminal code alone or possibly in the U.S. when it comes to compensation matters. I'm not going to let you completely break all these statutes of limitations in the criminal code, and now it would be a long delay in such a crime, such as an obsolescence, for example, for rape or something like that - I'm not going to go into it. But I would like to warn those who do not know that this article is a total waste of sand in the eyes of voters. This Article, if adopted, allows the limitation period to be extended for future offences. You don't have to be a legal genius to understand the provision of a criminal code that stipulates that when crimes are committed, the law that was in force in the commission of a crime is taken into account. If the legislation changes later, this same criminal code stipulates that a nicer law must be respected. This is contained, Mr Tonin, in our penal code, and this is not some particular nuclear physics that a person would not understand. It is said that for everything that has been done with these loans in the past years, it is estimated that no more than 2004-2007 will be pursued and missed in this extension of the limitation period. The exact same obsolete deadlines are in place, which, by the way, cannot be completed any more than once with absolute obsolescence, because our legislation has been amended and absolute obsolescence is virtually no longer and the statute of limitations is no longer moving away from any act of the prosecution or anyone else in the sense of investigating this act. Thus, it would be difficult to go beyond the current legislation with the minimum activities of the authorities to prosecute such a crime. Please don't convince people that this is a way to solve problems behind you, punish the tycoons and that we are opposed to this law because we don't want to. It's a total delusion. It is a shame that the government that has such an apparatus, such legal services, let such an article into the law. Of course, knowing that this article means what it means, but they rely on the Members to be convincing enough to convince people of something else. I will finish slowly – just this, I stress again, let already remove the trade secret code from the credit reports! Mr Jerovšek, let your client, please, with the help of the Government, adopt some legislation that will remove this business secret from these loans so that we can all see who has adopted them. You have that power. We cannot accept this law, and I confess to you, when we study the legislation on how to do it, we find that it is very difficult to do so. Because if the banks don't have any more business secrets, who's gonna take credit with them? You're reaching into the foundations of banking. It is extremely unfair, however, that Mr President of the Government and three others and a few other Members obviously know what was contained in these maps — not all others. We don't have any tools to find out — no one! Unless, please again, the Government, with its legal experts, opinions and working group, decides on how this can be opened, how this can be seen, and how this will be legal. So I urge you to do it. Just for the end, don't tell me – because this really pisses me off – that there are no alternatives, there are no alternatives to content, because there are always, and there are no alternatives to government, because there are always. The government, which is abusing the economic crisis to exercise some of its other interests or hides mistakes behind, I think it always has an alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask you if, on my behalf, you would thank Mrs Maša Kociper for her extraordinary attention to turn to me and speak to me for, I don't know, five minutes. Unfortunately, I did not listen to her this time, but I do not know what she was talking about — I did not communicate with her at all — but I must be grateful for the special attention I received. Later she said something really pissed her off. Probably made her angry this time that I didn't listen to her. She turned to me and performed, so please thank her again! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u48	You've abused a bit of a procedural proposal, too. Mrs Kociper, as I understand it, has attributed one very great power to you, so that you can be proud of this – if you have not known so far what you can do. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! I will personally support today's proposal. I estimate that failure to enforce or reject this law can indeed have irreparable consequences, both for the financial system and for the budget. It should be borne in mind that the rehabilitation of the banking system is certainly one of the most important issues. I agree somehow with the opposition, which says that this law we are talking about today is not a reform law, but without the enactment and adoption of this law – any reform we adopt will have no such weight or added value. The banking system in Slovenia is in a very bad position. Where do I see the greatest added value in the adoption of this law? In particular, the banking system will begin to be resolved in an external way, not on an internal basis. The internal way of solving the banking system has been known so far. We have invested approximately 1.6 billion euros in the New Ljubljana Bank so far, and the results are well known to all. There is no effect, the balance sheet sums of the banking system are falling, the 9-month business report of the Slovenian banks is catastrophic; about 120 million euros in losses. Credit, both economies and consumers, is declining. I have an opinion as to why the opposition rejects such a proposal. Probably because the external mode of bank resolution also means that certain links, certain friendly loans that have been granted, will be flooded onto the surface. The fact that the bank's external resolution is correct is also clear that in the first half of this year, the European banking system sold off for about 27 billion bad claims and loans – both consumer credits and economic credits as well as real estate loans. In Slovenia alone we avoid this way and therefore Slovenia's banking system is probably one of the worst in Europe at a given time. In addition to all matters of concern, of the state of concern, of the business results, I personally see that in the last period in Slovenian banks – in particular those with state ownership – some very dangerous moves have begun to take place. In particular: purchase of discount bonds. 30% of the discount is offered by Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, Banka Celje, NLB. I see it as a form of forced settlement. How can investors who have trusted that they have invested in the bank accept that the bank now decides to buy it off with a 30% discount? When will the Slovenian banks get any new investors? These moves seem very dangerous to me, and I also understand that Banka Slovenije does not warn about these matters. The regulators of the banking system in Europe are increasingly strict, and this is likely to be the case. Slovenian banks have weak owners. I don't know how Abank's going to recapitalize himself. It has only one strong owner and this owner is likely to have limitations on the recapitalisation itself. I am convinced that the law we are talking about today is a good one and that this is the only way for banks to start solving themselves in an external and not internal way, and I expect the Constitutional Court to follow this and that this referendum will be rejected and that the banking system in Slovenia will finally begin to recover, because without the resolution of the banking system, we cannot expect economic growth. Nor can we expect reforms – I hope that some will be adopted by the end of this year – to be successful if we do not rehabilitate this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Given that quite a few words have been said about the fact that we have bad banks in Slovenia and that everything that has happened in our state banks is bad – I must admit that I am disappointed with such statements and want to strongly protest such debates, which I base on the following facts: Slovenia is a small country, it is a small economy, and if it wants to survive, it must have strong economic societies in particular. To have strong export companies, we also need Slovenian banks to support this economy in entering foreign markets. This is what these banks in Slovenia have been doing all the time, and I am sure that despite all of this, at least you know that we have strong exporting companies in Slovenia and that Slovenia is therefore also an important player within the European Union. How can you prevent the impact of the Slovenian economy on foreign markets? By way of taking over national banks – when you take over national banks, you get a direct look at each economic company and then, of course, as a foreign owner, you decide which company you will resell, take over and allow a foreign company to expand its market share in foreign markets. My dears, this bad bank law only allows foreigners to take over Slovenian state banks or those banks where Slovenia has an important ownership stake. Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, Nova Ljubljanska banka, Banka – these are the banks that are of course important for the development of the Slovenian economy. See, in 2004, Slovenian banks abroad had deposited EUR 2 billion. Mr. Tonin, I want to prove the success of the banks because you said earlier that if I convince you, you will be with us. See, in 2004, banks had EUR 2 billion deposited abroad – this can only have a successful bank, a failed bank cannot have it. As a result, they also had a great deal of confidence, especially for domestic savers in this bank and the domestic economy. What happened after 2004, when we had 2 billion deposits from outside, and by 2008, when we had 13 billion debts abroad, through banks? The reason was that simply foreign capital led us across the water — unfortunately, it was then the government of Janez Janša, who then ruled and naively inherited it — because foreign banks offered cheap loans to our banks and then those banks credited our economy. Today, we have an indebted economy, because at that time, under favourable conditions, they owed themselves in the hope that economic growth would continue. This enabled only the naivety of the then government, which did not resist it, and the Bank of Slovenia, which already knew in 2007 that the economic crisis would come and did not react as regulator of the financial market in Slovenia and began to stop the activities of banks that were in debt abroad. Today we have this situation that needs to be solved. But how do we save her? We save it by saying: Slovenian banks are criminal, let's take them down because everything they do is bad. Now I'm just going to ask you: why did we tear down Slovenian construction? Because everyone said that in Slovenian construction companies they were criminals themselves. Who controls the Slovenian construction market today? It's foreign. Foreign builders control the Slovenian construction market. So we actually have to talk about sovereignty, ask what our interest is, and defend this extremely aggressive foreign capital that wants to go to Slovenia. If Slovenia were a failed country, this foreign capital would not want to come to Slovenia – but, of course, it wants to come on as cheap terms as possible. What this law does is, in particular, to resell our private companies to foreigners, i.e. the claim – a bad claim that will go from the bank to the Bank Management Company – will go with the discount, will go with the discount.The Bank Claims Management Company will try to resell our successful company to the new owner. In the face of 4 billion of our money, the Claims Management Company will take over these claims, these companies, and then sell them to foreign owners. My dears, by enforcing this law we sell Slovenian banks to foreigners and thereby lose our sovereignty. Why no one is protesting that in the supervisory council of the New Ljubljana Bank after 20 December of the six supervisors, five foreigners – and this is acceptable for all, even the President of the Government replied to me for the last time that foreigners will manage our banks better than the Slovenians. I'm sorry, I'm protesting this kind of thinking! This is actually a loss of Slovenian sovereignty. The adoption of this law means the loss of Slovenian sovereignty – if we lose our banks, lose our economy, lose our markets, we will depend on others and we must not allow it. And that's what this is all about, this law and no other measure. We're not going to help our economy, we're not going to fix the banks, we're going to sell them cheaply to foreign capital, and that's the only goal! Why doesn't anyone from abroad want to recapitalize the New Ljubljana Bank today? Because everyone is waiting for this marriage because these discounts are going to be significantly bigger — these discounts are going to be significantly bigger. He's not crazy about investing a billion dollars today if he can make 100 million tomorrow. Some even say they would sell the New Ljubljana Bank for one euro. I'm sorry. This is a crime for my understanding. This is the only story you're talking about with this bank when you're saying how successful it is to buy back these claims with 4 billion of our money. It's just the principle of reselling our companies and our banks to foreigners. Did only Slovenian banks lend bad loans? Why does no one talk about the fact that foreign banks operating in Slovenia have also granted bad loans? We're also saving these banks today with this law. Why do we have to save these foreign banks? Why? I haven't received that answer since we've been talking about a bad bank in Parliament. Why do we have to save foreign banks? Once again, this is not about saving Slovenia, it is not about saving the Slovenian economy, it is about selling everything we have to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. To prepare for this debate, I looked at online media, forums and blogs, and the results of the publications confirmed to me once again that Slovenia has major problems. But not only financial and economic and political – above all, I am concerned about the state of the spirit in our society. The first three, I am sure we will survive sooner or later, and Janša, Jankovic and Brussels will not be enough for the latter. It will require the extraordinary will of each individual to establish a new system of values that will not be based solely on money and that will seek in each of us what is good and not only criticise what is beyond what we are doing today. Let's just see what news our daily news shows and newspapers are starting with, how our debates in Parliament are focused and on what criticisms and the referendum initiative on a bad bank are based. And I will return to the blogs I mentioned at the outset. Many, probably most of them are heading in the direction: I had a reason, I took the time and gave my signature for a referendum on a bad bank, because I do not intend to pay the imported tycoon loans and the irresponsibleness of the bankers; because I do not agree with our politicians who wish to impose payments to the people through a bad bank of a few billion Taiwanese-imported loans rather than severely punishing both bankers and tycoons. The implementation of this law will allow exactly this. By name and surname, it may identify those responsible for the weak financial situation of the banks that have impoverished the state treasury, the people and the whole society. These culprits need to be sanctioned and ensured that such a situation in banks is prevented. Without the enforcement of the law, the existing culprits will remain in their positions for the resulting situation in the banks and will continue their actions without any sanctions. The transfer of claims will also take over some of the losses from existing owners. There is no recapitalisation of these effects. The implementation of the Bad Bank Act makes it possible to quickly rehabilitate banks. Presumably in the second year, since bad claims are transferred to a bad bank. In the rehabilitation banks, the credit potential that they will be able to channel into new investments is released, supporting a promising and pro-pulsive part of the economy. Another group of bloggers is thinking in the direction: I will not support the referendum. The decision is of a professional-political nature and should not be hanged on the shoulders of the people. The president of the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries of Slovenia also said that the referendum initiative was a gift to the current policy, in response to a dialogue that he said was not going on – which he certainly does not. We had a marriage on the table already in July, and we moved the hearing to fall, just so that we could have time to find common solutions for dialogue. The coordination was long and difficult. The professional public and the policy are divided in respect of this law and procedure, which it adopts. The question is whether it is ethical to face the Slovenian public with such a high professional and challenging question and to ask citizens to decide a matter that is not even the biggest economic experts in Slovenia. I don't think so. The law is not perfect, but in given circumstances it is the best thing we can do for our community and our citizens. And I'm going to end with the thought, "What's full of heart, that's what mouths say." Come on, let's gather strength and create within ourselves the mood of permanent satisfaction and joy – then we will find common solutions for the benefit of all!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Dear Vice President, Your Honor! So today we should talk more and we should be concerned about the consequences that the possible enforcement of this law, which we are going to talk about, but we are all talking too much about the referendum. The referendum is merely a result of the bad actions and bad laws of this government. This is just one more proof that this National Assembly and Parliament are literally extended, the voting machine of the Government, and that the legislative branch of the government is subordinated to the executive branch, which is actually unacceptable. If Members and Members were to answer here — or really feel responsible — they would not simply press the "for" button. Perhaps the best proposal for Members and Members to receive a salary at the end of their term of office would, of course, be reduced to all the bad consequences that the laws adopted would have. At that point, we would think responsibly and imagine before we pressed the "yes" button. All the laws that were passed — for example, a specific law had 39 articles and was supplemented by 99 amendments. So when the proposalr filed a marriage, he didn't know what he was doing. Any law that is so unprepared to enter into the parliamentary procedure deserves criticism at the outset. The referendum is not a solution. I don't support the referendum myself. But how do you avoid a referendum? Perhaps it would be best if all laws, or at least laws such as this bad bank law, were passed by a two-thirds majority. At that time, we should negotiate and discuss in Parliament and take into account the opinion of the profession so that the law can be adopted and enforced. We make bad laws. Bad laws that have lasting consequences have lasting negative consequences for this country. We're all laughing at what we're doing in this country. We have seized state property and what little we have left, which the opposition warns you: don't do it, don't do it! No, you don't. You say, "No, we're right, and the referendum will hurt." No! No! This referendum is just an extreme tool, a literal force tool that we used as opposition parties to – and not just us, but also trade unions at the end. You are not interested in people who are concerned about this country, all the warnings from the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the profession and the general Slovenian public, you reject it, you do not accept it. Why are you doing this? But it is a country that does not take into account, which does not take into account the expertise and the professional opinions – why we have the expertise then – condemned to failure. With great regret, I can see that this is wrong and that what is wrong with the whole community is not good for us to make such and other decisions that have negative consequences for citizens and citizens. Mr Tanko said that he would listen to the position, to all initiatives and proposals. No, you have not taken any initiative, no proposal by the opposition for a specific law, the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to remedy the stability of banks – you have literally ignored everything. How can we trust you if you have full control over your side? I will say, "What is mine, it is not yours, it is not mine: what is ours is ours, it is right to control with one another." That would be good for the government itself. Because in a few years' time, it will happen again that there will be such and different consequences that all citizens and citizens will suffer. Here we could say, "Yes, you had control!" In this case, you do not want the opposition to have control. And what is the logical consequence of all this? Our conclusion is that you actually have bad intentions. For 21 years, such and different decisions have been taken in a responsible manner. But which of the politicians responded? Is it just a responsibility as long as you're a politician? But for all bad solutions, who is responsible? And then everything falls on the backs of ordinary citizens and citizens, workers and workers who need only work and fair pay. We have to provide this to these citizens and citizens and then we are winners, then we will walk proudly in this country – we are so ashamed, I am ashamed because I have no power because I can't talk to you like I'm talking to you. This is a big problem and a big problem. Bad bank, bad marriage, bad country! That's the problem. You don't want to understand. Then the problem is the referendum. No, it's not a referendum problem. The problem is the measures and solutions, the poor solutions you have proposed in this law and the referendum are only a consequence of your poor measures to prevent theft and untransparent business with the only remaining assets of all citizens and citizens – and that is all we have been telling you all this time. You still have the opportunity to cut off this referendum so that there will be no referendums, just let us accept our proposals and initiatives, and we will withdraw everything. You and we will be saved, especially citizens and citizens and this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Request for a referendum. Of course, we have already found that it is legal in the National Assembly, so today this debate on the requirement for a constitutional review, which is also legitimate – unlike the other steps that are taking in the National Assembly – but it is not good and we do not support it. But we do not support it for one simple reason, because this law — without the law being good — is a worse solution than other available solutions. And we don't want to talk about it today. For we have had two other solutions besides this, and not as we hear today that we have been discussing this law since July and have been able to consult. That's not true. Firstly, we have already heard that this law has been discussed only once in coordination. And second, which is even more important, not since July, but only from September. What is more important than trying to create one particular impression at all times is that the opposition in the National Assembly is opposed to this law only for one reason. This reason is supposed to be hidden in all the disadvantages of these loans, the bad loans that have been granted over a certain period of time. Let me draw your attention to some facts. Positive Slovenia has not participated in any government and is for the first time in the National Assembly, so it did not have an impact on the adoption of any legislation. Now that we have this influence, of course, we do not even have the necessary majority to make decisions. What is important and what is most misleading to the public is that by making this referendum impossible to enforce the law on the so-called bad bank, it will, of course, make it impossible for the public and all those who should know that these loans are bad and, above all, who received them and under what conditions they were received. Let me say that this government is the one who should, in fact, offer solutions if it is to solve this problem. The solution is simply to change the basic law, which discusses how credits or data on credit maps are also protected. This is the Banking Act, not the Bad Bank Act. All this law actually does is transfer these credit maps – it is said that bad claims are transferred into the law or into this new bad bank, which will have to work with these credit maps under exactly the same conditions as in Banka Slovenije. If we look at the Banking Act; 208, paragraphs 214, 215 and 216. All of these articles tell us very clearly how the case is actually handled by a third party who has entered into a relationship with a single bank and thus established a credit relationship. There is a very clear description of when and under what conditions these data can be disclosed. Tell me who in the country has the power to change this law and what happens if these articles are also very wide open. Firstly, experts in a bank who are familiar with banking – in addition to Banka Slovenije – will have to say something about this, and, of course, all lawyers who will change the legal order and will be completely different from the whole European Union, if not in the world, as far as intra-bank business is concerned. And who would you like to turn away, of course, if this way were to be changed? I am sure that the Government will find a way, as soon as possible, when they fail to enforce this law, that we will be able to handle it and open up everything we want to solve with this problem, with this bad bank. It's important to me that we talk about solutions. There have been several times in the debate – not today – today we have heard eleven times in the debates only the fact that we want and want to hide these loans and protect these tycoons, and in short what is important is how to solve this bank spasm. The Swedish model knows the combination of each other – to partially establish what this law wants to implement and partly the combination of the other – by recapitalising banks. Nobody even wanted to talk about it. As stubborn as an ostrich, you put your head in the sand, confident that this will solve all your problems. Foreigners don't care how much money we spend on this law, nor do they care which model is cheaper or more expensive. They only care if we solve this problem. That's what the minister was talking about. That is why it is the illusion of a minister when he says that this law is the best and that everyone is satisfied with it outside – it is only partly real and partly not. Indeed, we are talking about how much this country or taxpayers will cost. I absolutely support only one solution. This is to decide today that the matter does not go to constitutional review and that taxpayers decide on their tax money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, what do you want? You can't have a replica, you haven't discussed it yet. You had a presentation of the Group's position, but you haven't discussed it yet. I know the practice has been different before, but I don't think it was in line with the rules of procedure – I don't think Mr Frangež was justified when he got the word for the replica. Now it would be Mrs Maria Plevčak, but she is not here. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please. Behind her is Mr. Happy Meh and Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! On 3 October 2012, we adopted the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Then, at the request of the Council of State, we decided again. Since the law was adopted in both cases, the request for a referendum by the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries of Slovenia followed. As we considered in the coalition that irreparable consequences could arise if the law in the referendum were rejected, we decided, on the basis of Article 88 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to submit a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences. This will be decided by the Constitutional Court. Even today, we can say that the consequences of the failure to enforce the bad bank law, which would in the first place cut the credit crunch, will undoubtedly be. Who would benefit most from not enforcing the bad bank law? Certainly not to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but certainly to all those who gave bad loans, who called and gave orders to banks, to whom and under what conditions the contested loan should be granted. If the law that was prepared is enforced, then we can find out who the people who called, we will know the names and surnames of the persons who signed the contested loans, and we will be able to claim responsibility for the bad banks as well. The calls were undoubtedly also coming from the President of the largest opposition party, the Positive Slovenia. Any delay in implementing this law will certainly have a lasting negative impact on financial stability and on the establishment of a healthy and competitive economy. The latter should be the priority of all of us sitting here today, because it is the only way we can achieve new jobs, we can achieve greater youth employment – we all know that this is an exceptional problem at the moment – and not least, we will be able to achieve a lower level of unemployment. If the implementation of the law is delayed, the trend of declining credit ratings will continue, which will undoubtedly weaken the baseline conditions for borrowing, and then, respected colleagues and colleagues, you do not want to be forced to apply for international financial assistance. Is that what we want? We certainly don't! What does it mean to be forced to apply for international financial assistance? This means that the forced part of our sovereignty, which we have created and acquired in the 20-year process of democratisation, will be transferred to the institutions of the European Union. Why don't you want bank robberies to be investigated in Positive Slovenia? Why don't you want or protect in Positive Slovenia those who gave bad loans to tycoons? Why do you not want to find responsibility for the situation in Positive Slovenia? However, if we all know precisely that the solutions offered by the Government have been in practice well accepted and proved to be good in some other countries, such as Sweden or Germany. In these countries, credit crunches have been solved in exactly the same way.Why in Positive Slovenia you do not want to clarify corrupt clientele business or, as Spiegel writes, why you do not want to investigate banking banditism. I will certainly support the proposal for a decision on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Can I help you? You have a replica because you were mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Dear Vice-President, we have been mentioned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u62	I will take this as if Mrs Maša Kociper was mentioned as a member of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u63	Several times in this debate, we have been Members of Positive Slovenia. Obviously we were completely misunderstood, Mrs Irgle, because all the debaters so far, on the side of Positive Slovenia, we stressed that we want to clear up this, as you say, banking banditry. Once again, the ruling party, please open this report, which Mr President Gorenak has, and I think that Mr Minister of Finance, that we can all see who has accepted these loans and how – not that you are so politically manipulating the data, but we cannot. They were truly misunderstood, so I will point out once again: we want, expect and demand that you find those responsible, that you open these credit maps and that we will all be able to see who was given these controversial loans in the period 2004-2007, which resulted in such a bank hole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, we are talking today about two referendums or also about the Siamese twin SDH, the Slovenian State Holding – because it is not possible to talk only about the bad bank, without saying at the same time that what is supposed to happen to the bad bank is happening on the other side. Now on the 19th page of one – Sorry, here in Finance on 19 September, when you talk about politics, it was written that close associates Janez Šuštersič Dejan Krušec and Matej Runjak were on the Supervisory Boards of the Insurance Office Triglav and the New Ljubljana Bank, and they should not have been there. It is said that it is the same everywhere when we talk about politics, about political interference – we always point to others. In Dnevnik, on 26 September, Banka Slovenije sent data on bad credits to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and then the Prime Minister gave information about the bad bank unauthorizedly to Minister Gorenak. So we have this information. In fact, I would like to say this: we are not talking today, nor are we talking well. The referendum's been signed. With this decision, which you are proposing today, two solutions are possible. One to reach out to the Constitutional Court and the other not to. If the Constitutional Court does not intervene, there is a possibility that we will be in exactly the situation we are in today – the situation when the referendum will be – and I ask you why you are doing this, why are we doing this, what are our intentions, and what do you want to achieve by leaving this referendum at any time and buying time? For what, for whom, do you want to achieve? The situation in Slovenia is such that in all areas we are putting uncertainty and uncertainty that everything is so, including signatures and today – about the referendum, yes or no –. that we cause dissatisfaction among people. It's not good! We should, ladies and gentlemen, talk today about what it is that the referendum would not be. Let's talk to the unions and the opposition and try to find a common solution. It's not true that there's only one solution, it's not true. There are more possible solutions and let's find these solutions — but we don't want them. We only say: our solution is the right one, only our government solution saves Slovenia. That's not true either, it's proven not true, and I'll try to say something else about it. I might agree with those who say that a bad bank is a professional issue. However, excuse me, citizens and citizens, let us ask if they are willing to give from their pocket 700 million to the Church for investments that have been bad and that the Church has produced through the Bell itself and the result is that we will pay the taxpayers through a bad bank. Let us ask our inhabitants and the inhabitants! Let's ask the residents if we want to sell Energy. Let's ask if we want to sell Krka, Telekom, Triglav, banks, that property we still have! But that, ladies and gentlemen, is not the worst. What we will not sell through the Slovenian state holding company will be sold through a bad bank – without knowing who, without knowing when, and not at what price. And not that we know of the consequences! All of this was much discussed today by those who discussed before me. So why do we want to prevent the implementation of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks? Because he's bad. Because it's harmful. Because he doesn't listen to the opposition, not the profession, not the unions, nobody because he insists that there's only one solution. Because it's against logic and against people. Because he is not in harmony, if he were to be in harmony, he could go — he is not in harmony! A few times there was a talk about who were the tycoons who got the loans. Yeah, do something! For nine months, you have scissors and linen in your hands so that you can adopt a law to open up, as was also said — who are those tycoons — to open credit cards and do something. And you didn't do anything about it. So I'd say so, a lot of things have been said here today, and I don't even want to talk about it again, because otherwise I should be accusing you of why someone says something smells -- yes, it does. Why would we accuse politics – because it's politics. We should be looking for a solution today! Not that by five o’clock in the afternoon we will all talk to each other about how bad this is and how good it is, instead of doing what we have to do — with the union, perhaps with the opposition, if you are not under the honor, we could settle down and agree on what solutions are better than the ones proposed, and who would unite the Slovenes, but not disunite them – forgive them, Slovenes and Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Chehovin's turn, then the Vogrin and then the Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At first I intended to cancel the debate, but I must say that it was the debate between Members and Members of the coalition that led me not to give up the debate. Indeed, you have a majority, and today you can accept this proposal without opposition. However, you use such a sterile matter to settle with the opposition. Those of us who came to Parliament for the first time have no connection, I don't see any tycoon between us; if you see him, show him, we'll eliminate him immediately. However, the spirit of mutual accusations has been introduced into this Parliament and it seems to me that there are more mediators than there are victims. This spirit of Wiszynski, who has moved as a zombie into this House, will not lead us anywhere. And if we're talking today about whether you're going to make a constitutional assessment or not, I can say as a Member that this is just a delay for me. If the marriage is so great, good, then there is nothing to be afraid of — let this referendum take place as soon as possible. The question may not happen, but it may not be possible for the unions to collect 40,000 signatures. I don't really understand that. The arguments you are quoting may be more or less counter-arguments for us. The main problem in this country is the non-creditability of the ruling policy. Let's get this straight! That's the main thing. But now I'm going to say it on specific occasions. On Monday, when I asked the Minister of Finance the question of improving the capital structure of the New Credit Bank Maribor and, as a result, selling the Insurance Office Maribor, I received an answer that under no circumstances would the New Credit Bank of Maribor be recapitalised with the shares of our funds, state funds. I read in the paper yesterday that Kad and Sod will recapitalize. I don't mind, but not one day, two days doesn't apply to what's said. Mr Minister said – and this is the question of who is the victim of this process – that it contradicts the concept of a bad bank because it would mean an unjustified gift to private owners. That's what our minister said, who unfortunately isn't here, and he also said why. But now tell me, what has changed at this time? What private owners will we now help with this concept of bad bank? That's all that's changed, everything else is folklore, all that's going on. Several times I have asked the question – the main problem with the tycoon loans was that someone had retained the law that had been drafted in 2007 and had delayed its implementation for one year. This is the law under which the granting of loans on the basis of the Lombard flags of future shares was prohibited. And that was true for someone, right then in 2006, 2007, 2008, when small shareholders from all companies in that country were mass uprooted — the principle that small shareholders would be uprooted was applied everywhere. At that time, the nation also lost confidence in corporate governance, as well as in equity, and consequently in other financial institutions. This painting and dramatic situation in Slovenia to absurdity, if there is an apocalypse here, it is not at all true! If you look at the data, whether you are monitoring it or anything else, our banks had a 30% better financial result than last year at the same time in this year's nine months. 30%! But it is true that another problem is that our economy is over-indebted. The main problem with public finances, and I have been saying this all year long, is that our companies are over-indebted, which is also reflected in the banking system. Banks do not pay – they do not have their obligations paid. This percentage of late claims over 90 days rose from 18.5% this year to 23.9%. This means that the balance sheets of companies are those that do not allow banks to operate normally – everything else is actually only a banking system. How uncreditable the policy is also to say in the following case: in the NLB administration, a representative of the NCBs, i.e. a foreign owner in the bank, has been responsible for risk management and assessment of investments and assets since 2007. It is also likely that NLB has prepared a projection of its capital adequacy, and therefore it is really strange what a service relationship to the NCBs has to our finance ministry. You know that the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank is preparing. There are two Slovenian representatives from the administration, while the representative of the NCBs, who is responsible for this lending, remains inside. It is interesting how we have a servile attitude toward everyone coming from, say, northern Europe and underestimating the attitude towards everything that comes from another end. But we, this gentleman, will not even name him, leave him alone – nor did the spring NLB assembly resolve him. What does that mean? On the other hand, we know exactly that the NCBs should not have recapitalised the New Bank of Ljubljana because it itself has major problems with its capital adequacy. So I ask: Who does it fit to give an unwarranted gift to the NCBs with this system of bad banks? Solutions that are much faster and much better, there are, there is no need to go without knowing where and looking for the concept of a bad bank – the concept of a bad bank is not only expensive, it is slow. Why do we have to set up a stock company? Why do we need to set up a complete infrastructure for this company? Why do we have to hire other political supporters in this share society that we have not yet? Who is in a hurry to switch seats in this hall or elsewhere for seats in a new society? Why don't we just get on with it? First, clearing the balance sheets of banks – you have all the levers: you can replace the control councils, set up your administrations. Do the job. On the other hand, the immediate recapitalisation of banks should be made to the extent necessary, so that this so-called "Core Tier 1" capital ratio is appropriate. It does not have to be 9, because of me it can also be 15% – better than the minimum required. Why do we not do so with the immediate handover of state bonds to both the largest banks in Slovenia? Why don't we do it? In the concept of a bad bank, we'll only do it half a year later. We will do the same, but we will save someone else — a private owner who told us to save him. Things will be quick and even profitable – you do not need to do any evaluation if the State gives its bonds and banks priority shares to the State. Priority shares also take precedence over profits, in making profits. The country, however, refused to pay. That means we could take this thing to a profit, but we can't. It is clear that this law is not as much about bank resolution as it is about the rescue of private investors. On the other hand, this is mainly the case — and you have confirmed this today in your presentation address — to satisfy some vampire appetites. To show how to give blood to syringes on all sides, now we will show those ugly, wicked ones who have done it! But they can do it now. If it is not possible in public, but under the Banks Act – let us close the public meeting and consider all these loans. Ask the state banks to bring the fields here and we'll deal with all of this. We will quickly find out — if this finding is correct, there will be casualties on all sides if someone thinks that someone is immune or that someone is innocent. There are no innocents. But obviously you know who did it; it's our first time in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Undoubtedly, the initiative to assess constitutionality is legitimate. I do not want to oppose this initiative; I just want to express my position on the basis of this initiative. The justification states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requests that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide that, by suspending the application of the law or by rejecting the law in the legislative referendum, there may be unconstitutional consequences as set out below." Then the argument follows: "The proposal states that the failure to enforce the law means the loss of sovereignty, which is the most precious constitutional acquisition from which all other fundamental constitutional rights, such as human dignity, special security, democracy, the rule of law, social rights, are derived." I wonder what kind of law we have adopted that human dignity can be trampled by the failure to enforce this law. Human dignity is a personal category of man. And if a man does not choose and let his dignity be taken away, then he cannot be taken away. In this National Assembly, in this country, we daily take the dignity of people by condemning people for having their thoughts, their opinions — labeling them, accusing them. He goes on to say, of course, that the unconstitutionality of the existing legal regime from a democratic and social point of view makes them believe that non-constitutionality has occurred because of the changed macroeconomic circumstances in the Republic of Slovenia and in the wider environment in which it operates and is closely linked to it. Look, it's a re-suspecting nonsense. How can a law cause unconstitutionality — since it was not conditionally adopted and it is not written that if growth changes, if external circumstances change, the law would cease to apply. So, the next smart nonsense. It then substantiates: the enforcement of the law is the only way to remedy the unconstitutional situation. Do you know what a bold claim this is — that this is the only and only way to save people? When we discussed it on the Committee or in the Working Group, there were quite a few proposals on how to resolve it. Such an overblown thesis shows a great deal of danger, as we already know from historical experience, otherwise Europe known as "ein Gott, ein Reich, ein Führer". And that's a dangerous thesis. No one is here to pose as the only solution and one solution as the only one. The following thesis is also dangerous – the enforcement of the law as a condition for preventing the deepening of the unconstitutional situation, where the applicant justifies the following: "It is clear to the international public that the referendum itself or its abuse by the opposition and the interest groups is a key issue, since it can be blocked by any necessary measures." This means that we have put ourselves in a position where the people are no longer sovereign, but they are a sovereign parliament and government. That's dangerous. The question now arises whether Parliament and the Government are here because of the people or the people because of Parliament. Thesis, which is, confirms that the people are due to Parliament and Government. And that's why, of course, these weights are dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Now it's Joseph Kovtičnik and then Franz Breznik and Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we do not oppose measures to strengthen the stability of banks, but we are convinced that this law is the worst possible solution. That the law was ripe for the referendum was clear as soon as the coalition refused to listen to our comments and also did not warn the public that this law was wrong, that it was harmful for the country. The Bank of Slovenia considers the government proposal to be poor. We have also advocated that a better solution is a combined system or a way of saving. This is recapitalisation, a more transparent transfer of claims and so on. Today we have heard the minister say that it is possible to do or write something like this in marriage, but look – the law is here, we cannot know what else is possible and what the government will be ready to do and what will not do. We have bad experiences, promises many times, and don't do that. There are many professional proposals, and we have heard them today – really conceptual objections or differences – this is also what a colleague from the SLS talked about. You are probably facing a decommissioning of the democratic system and the social security system of public education and so on. This is about strengthening political and economic power. On the other hand, we are talking about the social and democratic state, public education, public health, and helping people when needed and not when one of you sees that this is necessary, and then we start looking for some humanitarian and other assistance. It's a system-wide rescue. We don't see him here. There are too many open questions and there are too many stakes to go to such a risk. Your Honor! Our constitution states that the church is separate from the state. It is also a matter of putting into the bank those debts that the church has incurred through business failure. This is about the Bell, and the last time I heard that the solution to the Bell was that the people had already spoken. Not to mention the possibility of reselling property owned by citizens and citizens! This common wealth of ours – this is not about the wealth that the Government or the existing coalition has, but it is a common wealth – we must not give to the chosen ones to be richer and then through donations, bounties and graces to people who will be increasingly poorer. Look, the well-respected coalition, when we passed the system laws, the law on assistance, and so on, you didn't accept them, you didn't confirm them. You delay by law assistance to children with special needs and so on. So this is a system-wide solution, and this is about actions and not pretty talk. By selling energy companies such as Petrol, hydro power plants, TES, perhaps also a nuclear power plant, you are taking the country into energy dependence. The owners will be willing to raise the prices of energy that people will have to pay more and more, and we know where we will bring family and other budgets. You are talking about the urgency of the measures that need to be taken recently in the National Assembly, and at the same time the Government has not been able to draw up a 440 million-dollar loan draw-out contract to pay off many subcontractors, our Slovenian subcontractors. This reckless work of the Government will cost us some €10 million in the first phase and some €100 million in the next. No one gets a headache or maybe no one wants to answer that HSE is going to get on his knees and then buy off those companies cheaply, as I said. So within four months, the Minister failed to draw up a contract – he replied to my question of the delegation that it was difficult. I believe it seems too difficult for him. For this reckless act, which will result in so much and so much irritation and, of course, so much and so much loss of taxpayer money, it is, of course, also necessary to answer criminally, not only by interpretation. I'm sure we'll talk about this a lot more. After a year’s work in the National Assembly, as my colleague Potočnik said, I got the feeling that the coalition was acting like a person with a paralyzed half-body. We say to such a person: You only work with half! You think it's another part of the body, it's the opposition, it's not here. Such a person is usually told that a job is less capable if he does not use his brain, we say that — the other half of the brain — is physically incompetent. Look, this is happening – none of our proposals, none of our well-intentioned thoughts have been accepted. None of our proposals have been adopted! That means you think we're idiots, we're not capable, and we're actually working here in this National Assembly with half our strength. This is then passed on to the country, and this is the way out of the crisis, all right? You know, here are these conceptual differences that you don't understand, you don't want to understand or take advantage of this opportunity to benefit from our abilities, including our acquired knowledge and to introduce them into your legislation or into our common legislation. That's what this is about! I will not allow and give the possibility that only you, on behalf of everyone in our country, will decide at what cost and who will be sold this last of our wealth and common assets. This can be an extreme measure, and even then we need to know exactly what we are going to do with sales money, what we are going to invest in, what plans, programs must be made, and there must be a political and social consensus, because this is our common asset. You don't have any of what I've just said, except for the terrible desire for someone to get rich at the expense of people who are increasingly being pushed into poverty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Franz Breznik's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u73	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, with great interest, I am re-engaging in the debate in the National Assembly, although I have recently acted very rationally because I feel that these matters will not produce any major positive effects but will often lose substance and go on to some accusation of one or another and so forth. I am not a man to take the initiative in such matters, so I believe that some dilemmas need to be resolved today. The first is that there is a collision of two concepts concerning the resolution of Slovenian system banks. Not only economic concepts, financial concepts, but these are two political concepts anchored in Slovenian modern society. The first concept is the so-called concept of still some modern market economy with larger layers of some planned economy, which you, a respected opposition, represent. The second concept is the concept of a modern market economy, on which the countries that were a model to us in the flood of the events of 1990-1991 are still – Switzerland, Austria, Germany, part of the Scandinavian countries. On the one hand, we have endeavoured to respect human rights, fundamental freedoms, which the previous common country has by no means won, and on the other hand we have wanted some greater prosperity for all our inhabitants and residents. In our coalition concept, the national interest you sing praises is primarily an interest in the welfare system of people – raising prosperity, raising the quality of education, and at the end of the social state. It should be borne in mind that the social state rate in the market economy is always conditioned by the level of quality of the economy, its power, its influence and, above all, some advantages in the world. At least in the first stage, the Slovenian concept has taken note of part – as I say many times here in Parliament – of some of the countries that have been our role models. So, we summarised part of these systems, part of German law we somehow tried to get into our legal order, but we forgot about some of the fundamental consequences of this modern Slovenian society. We came from a planning economy where these ethical and moral standards were somehow intertwined within the framework of the tasks with which we summarized these systems. Non-taxation, black construction, all of this is in these countries from which we have compiled these systems in the flood of some major violations in the first places. Failure to pay taxes – Personally, if I don't pay taxes, if I go to a grey economy or work in black, it means that I'm taking all of you out of my pocket, taking part of this social state, and so on. Here was this problem of colluding the implementation of all these systems into a Slovenian society that was not real. When we discussed in recent months how to solve the problem of Slovenian system banks, which are currently causing us the biggest problems, there was a collision of two systems. You have advocated a system that has now been a practice in which we have given more than €2 billion just to operate under the system of permanent recapitalisation of Slovenian systemic banks. Today, I agree with the debate that private banks or those established here by some foreign major banks have been included in these bad claims – but these banks have solved this problem in a moment. Let us recall the story of the Hypo Bank, where some major crimes were detected and when these cases were detected, they came together, they replaced the leadership, they replaced the supervisory board, they immediately carried out some procedures that had not been possible in our system banks so far. And now I'm asking you, let's say I'm very independent in these debates today, whether we should continue to give money to the same system, to the same people, to the same middle management that's always in these banks -- we all forget it, we all underestimate it. As you know, there is information that almost 3 000 people are employed in Slovenian system banks and that these system banks do not act in the most transparent way, do not act according to the principles of economy, and here is the problem. What is the essence of the market economy? Is it not profit, or is not profit also the essence of all those companies owned by the State? When we heard today that the dividend was seized only 90 million or something, 500 million went from the budget for various recapitalisations in recent years. This is our minimum, although all these companies have state-owned monopolistic positions in Slovenia. Are we aware of that too? What does the average taxpayer from Telekom have? In the previous part, you all talked about the Church – and I don't agree with the Church's policy – but it has to be asked whether it is shameful that the Church has financed the construction of the best optical system, that those small people have the possibility of accessing the Internet. On the other hand, we had a company called Telekom, a monopoly company that took money for years and years – taxpayers helped build this network – and in the end, a large majority of our people do not have access to the Internet in 2012. That's the problem. We meet with companies that have a monopoly, do not maximize profits, should have them at three times the price – these profits should be incredible because these companies have a monopoly; and this is our main problem. My concept, and I believe that the concept of a coalition is that we are trying to use the system, the concept of a bad bank, because we believe that the implementation of this system into the Slovenian modern society – which I have explained today and which has all these shortcomings of moral and ethical values – is most optimal for us. On the one hand, these people in the system banks have been the key to the problems we have, on the other hand, they need to have some control over the system – to withdraw all these bad claims on society, to look at these bad claims, to see those projects that have problems, that is to say, that they have inherited, resold or carried out these investments to the end, and that these problems are resolved – and that banks should carry out their basic banking activity. In this case, the financing of companies with certain products has services and which are competitive outside our space – as we know, we also have an incredibly limited capacity to pay Slovenia, and here is the problem. I don't care if the Slovenian construction companies you just talked about have failed. They were 12 years old or 20 years old to build highways – we know of cartel arrangements, things are before the courts – they had the opportunity to perform abroad. Tell me why they didn't make it. Why did it all go to waste? Since in Bosnia or Serbia these companies could not have grammosis in every truck, someone could not steal three more trucks along with them; because these companies have collapsed, not only morally and ethically, but economically, and we can thank these leaders. This was not a problem of the state, the problem was in the cartel arrangements of these companies. All the smaller construction companies are still stable, but now, of course, I am concerned that if we do not solve this spasm, even these smaller companies, which are competitive, which have good leadership and which do not receive funding from system banks, will begin to fail. The essence of all the reform laws in here is just one thing: if we had 50,000 more jobs today, we could be saving some smaller laws here and we wouldn't have to deal with the total collapse of the country that is approaching us. In the event that this country is run by trade unions, it is not a union in itself — on the one hand, I could say that the essence of trade unions is extremely respectable. Trade unions have played a strong role in the process of producing countries, capitalist economies – they have contributed to human rights and freedoms – but trade unions do so when we have something to share, ladies and gentlemen. But when we have nothing to share when this collapse approaches us at an incredible rate, when there is no time, ladies and gentlemen, and then there is no other solution, even if this solution is by some experts and has certain shortcomings, it is still better than a solution that has so far reigned. In particular, something else needs to be realized: the Prime Minister of the Government is going to countries where people want to invest, but the last sale of bonds on the US market has been relatively favourable at this time. However, it is important to ask whether the favourable sale was due to the promise of the Prime Minister that we will implement certain reforms and that we will save the Slovenian banks' project. What should the President of the World Government say next spring when we resell the new bond quota? Or should he say that we do not keep any promises, we do not follow the principle of the sunt servand pact, but give us! It's about Greece's system. We're not gonna do anything. I'd give up, I'd give up, I'd try, as an MP, I don't know what to do! But what's the problem? When the collapse occurs, people will withdraw; those who have held and had connections and acquaintances and have drawn all these credits will still do well, have reserves. In these problems, the smallest person, the one you say you're fighting, will always piss off. And that's an eternal problem. Now to continue with the concept of a part-planned economy in the resolution of Slovenian system banks is total nonsense and here endures no economic logic. Every system that you implement into a society needs a whole series of analyses on what this society is like, where it came from, what is the ethical, moral attitude and all those problems that are, only endure this concept, the concept of a bad bank. Of course, a bad bank is a bad solution for those who have been privileged to obtain credit without any economic logic. It is also a bad solution for those people who have been in this trough who have mastered this system for the past 22 years. However, it is a good solution especially for Slovenian companies with competitive products with competitive services, which, as good exporters, can somehow have economic consequences that can raise the well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens to one higher level. I therefore believe that, unfortunately, the final solution is for the Constitutional Court to judge — to give him this card today — literally — whether the time has come when this institution of referendum is by one union, which is essentially a minority, whether this right of this union is before the rights of 2 million people and so let the Constitutional Court decide in this concept. I believe that the time has come for us to be before the collapse of the system, when this social state and the country in economic sovereignty can collapse and not want to. I was involved in the beginning of this country's creation, but I would not like to be now when this country collapses because of some conceptual disagreements of a system, a former single-party system, where they will not let this country finally be put on the path of prosperity, on the path of a market-oriented real economy with a single, good social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožich. Get ready, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! In fact, the speaker gave me the necessary point to point out, as he mentioned, the confrontation of various concepts regarding the rescue or rehabilitation of our banking system. It is undeniable that it is necessary to rehabilitate banks, the question is obviously just how the opposition or coalition MPs here see it or see it. As a result of the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks and a large part of the professional public, I believe that the four bank resolution models presented so far represent a bad solution. It is a matter of settling the issue of bad claims outside banks by setting up a specific legal entity to which these bad claims are transferred. A large part of the banking, economic or legal, professional, meeting the proposed solution of the coalition does not see as good, since it considers it possible to cover the losses of private owners by means of the offered way, by means of state money. I also have doubts because this special legal person will not have any responsibilities to the National Assembly and to the public, as it will not be bound by the provisions applicable to information of a public nature. I also have doubts about the possible redemption of all bank claims with bank ownership shares in companies that are in liquidity difficulties after low, if you want, more than favourable prices for any selected buyers. It is also true that the Bank of Slovenia has prepared its proposal for a law that has not been complied with. It is also a fact that not only three banks form our banking system, but more than 20, which operate in the Slovenian banking area. The proposed requirements, which are on today's agenda, therefore I cannot support them, although the formal option introduced by the coalition with this requirement is entirely in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Get ready, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I will support my own decision on constitutional judgment because I am beginning to believe that there is a need to solve problems in private and business life. I understand this law as a first step, as the beginning of normalisation of the situation in the Slovenian banking system. It has to be done as soon as possible and any interference is not in the interest of Slovenia. I'd start by telling the government two things. First time he's saving. I come alone from the ordinary Slovenian household and they taught me that if I am saving, I have to have something saved in the end. But we still spend more than we create and still don't save anything, we just owe ourselves less. The second thing that is clear to this government is that we have no action in the field of budget revenue and other incentives to the economy, and we are practically proposing such a law every week. One such measure is also the Bank Recovery Act, as it is the basis for promoting lending and thus the basis for economic recovery. Although the law also allows for different action, we are talking most about a bad bank and I do not think that most people understand what this means. The Bad Bank will issue bonds that will be guaranteed by the State and with these bonds will buy back the so-called bad claims and will be able to borrow and credit our economy on the basis of these bonds abroad. This is said to be tax money not to be donated but to be used as a guarantee or as a guarantee. With the successful management of these claims, we will get most of this back, thereby making great public use of the credit crunch and the start-up of the economy. But what if these claims are actually for cheap goods? The key advantage of the bad bank is that, unlike the banks that now and at the moment need capital, it can wait a few years for the assets to gain value. For example, during the period of property, healthy but over-indebted companies will also be able to repay through a bad bank. The weak bank then sells this asset and thus tries to cover the costs of its business If it succeeds, the state does not even invest the euro of the taxpayer's money. Only if she doesn't make it through the bond guarantee mechanism does she pay off the losses. So the bankers will still get the taxpayer's money. These are mostly state banks, and unfortunately we are bankers – so we wanted in the past. The rehabilitation of banks that are majority-owned by the State is merely an exercise of the owner's responsibility, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor, Mr Ivan Gril is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! In Positive Slovenia we understand the problems of the difficult economic situation in Slovenia, but this does not mean that the bad bank law must be implemented in such a form. This law is prepared to clear banks of bad claims, unpaid loans and these bad claims will go to a bad bank and thus burden taxpayers – EUR 5 billion, which means EUR 2 000 500 per citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Healthy, clean banks such as NLB, NKBM and Abank, where the ownership of the country is held, will also be able to sell on the market to foreigners. It may happen that the Republic of Slovenia will no longer have at least a share in which of the banks in Slovenia. What does this mean for the development of the Slovenian economy, support for the economy and banking? It's a bad trip. For example, Nova Ljubljanska Banka in the wider European banking area means an important bank because it has a business network with experienced bankers and a wide range of banking services. It has a market and everything that any foreign bank would like to have, including one that wants to expand its banking space to Slovenia and to the financial markets of the former Yugoslavia and beyond. The clean bank will certainly be interesting and it is possible that the biggest stakeholders, potential buyers, are already known. In Positive Slovenia, we want credit maps to open. I don't want to hear any more of us being afraid of anything. Let it be determined how loans have been granted since 2004 onwards, even in 2006, 2007, who has received credits or whether the implementation of this law is a strong wish of the coalition to set a coalition priority when opening the maps: which maps and not all maps in a row. It will also be very interesting to see the credit maps of those companies or financial companies that have caused the loss of more than 2 000 jobs in the White landscape, mainly in the textile industry, in Beta Metlika, namely Zvon One and Zvon Two. Unemployed people struggle to survive. There are misleading statements that the implementation of this law will lead to the removal of the credit crunch – nothing will be better because of this law, and that is why there will be no more lending to businesses. This law will reduce the importance of the Bank of Slovenia's banking system regulator. Banka Slovenije will be on the sidelines, virtually no longer performing the function it has today under the Bank of Slovenia Act. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Minister of Finance said that he estimated that it was the lack of knowledge and unwillingness of the regulator – i.e. the Bank of Slovenia. Under the new Bad Bank Act, banks will virtually no longer need the Bank of Slovenia. Because of the bad bank law there will be no economic development, there will be no credit crunch removal, but we will be able to lose banks that will also be owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The referendum is the constitutional right of people to decide that the coalition and the government do not sell Slovenian banks and do not additionally burden people with unpaid loans, which at the moment makes it possible to law on a bad bank. The explanation for the constitutional assessment is inconclusive, is insufficient, and I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor, Mr Franz Pukšič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me introductoryly explain to all those who accompany us that today there is again a lot of deception by the opposition, especially that the bad bank is burdening our taxpayers. There is no difference if we went to recapitalisation – there too will be a recapitalisation of the state if we so decided, with tax money. The only difference is, at least the experience shows that each recapitalisation covered financial holes, the outflow of money into private pockets, and that no culprit has been identified to date. Weak loans, unsecured loans – this was essentially a legal way of stealing the millennium. The theft of the millennium has already taken place in Slovenia. Of these 6 billion bad claims, as far as is estimated, I am sure that two thirds of the money went to private accounts, which, of course, are also hidden in other countries. Now again, we would like taxpayers to be recapitalised to cover this financial hole and nothing would happen to anyone again, as it is to this day. This is a bad solution and I do not support such a solution. A bad bank isn't an ideal solution either. Today's questions, how much this will cost us, unfortunately they have no answer – no one can say how much this will cost, because the financial situation in the market is changing, and we are going to have to make more contributions and participate in this. I firmly believe that a solution with a bad bank is better than recapitalisation. Earlier, one of the opposition's discussers said that banks in Slovenia owned by foreigners also had bad claims. It's true, I know the case of one bank, and I'm not going to name it that had some claims like that that couldn't get money for, but they did. In what way? With a bad bank inside this bank – the exact same concept as this law brings, only that there was an actress alone with the help of a foreign mother who had to co-finance it, but here there would be a country. Here to explain how banks themselves can remedy these bad claims — that is impossible! In this bank, which I don't want to mention, that department that dealt with bad claims was completely isolated from those departments that were guilty of having bad claims. They were dealing with companies that got in trouble, and of course they were looking for culprits, and mostly they were recovering. There could be the same path here if, of course, this law were enforced. With each day we lose – this is now a month – someone other than Slovenia, as well as citizens and citizens, is at risk. Do not deceive the public, not deceive or pretend here, that we do not know or that they do not know where those key reasons are to oppose this law. This union, which has collected these signatures and which will now continue, unless the Constitutional Court prohibits it, is in fact only an extended period of time for individuals – they have been played. I'm sure a lot of people who signed this request don't know the law and they don't even know what they signed. The key reason is in this – Mr Jakič, you are probably better informed about these matters than I am where they went. Please, if you'll just let me finish my thought. I firmly believe that a key article in this law, which is the most controversial, is Article 33, which four times extends the time limit so that the matter cannot expire. We know from the past, a lot of trials or a lot of criminal acts or also a lot of frauds have come to an end because things are out of date. Here this deadline will be extended four times, and this is probably the greatest fear for a number of people, who are now in the background of directing unions and trying to prevent this issue in this way. I will also, of course, support this decision, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will assess that it has unconstitutional consequences and that it will prohibit the referendum because it is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič is next, Mr Roman Jakič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u83	Nice greeting, colleague, colleague, vice president! A little longer – it will be a year soon, since we have been in coalition, since we have been responsible for running this country. If the opposition and the unions were able to bring these two laws on holding and the bad bank to a referendum, if these two laws were to fall at the referendum, this would mean a stop in the possibility of our country continuing to function in a way that still leads to better conditions for the economy and to a way out of this great pile of shit. If we can't do this, all we have to do is get a European threesome and she'll tell us what it's not going to be, how we can and will work forward. This would probably mean early elections, the fall of the coalition, and so on. This is probably the object of the opposition. A legitimate goal of the opposition to overthrow the government, to overthrow the coalition. However, dear colleagues and colleagues, what a bad condition this country was in — we had never dreamed of doing so before the change of power took place! I myself, in the last three years in the opposition from this city, from month to month, from the budget to the budget, warned the then government coalition – a significant part of these Members today in Slovenia with one sign – of debt in the budget itself and of the non-use of European funds. No tenders, no contracts signed, no projects. Today, of course, with the same vat, when this period ends, they return: How will you take advantage of it? Yeah, it's fucking hard. The negotiating points for the new perspective 2014-2020 are also worse for Slovenia because we did not take advantage of what we had at our disposal. What happened in the last three years when the former government coalition owed us almost €8 billion, creating nothing, not reserves, not added value, not jobs? Simply, for a period of time, artificially retaining jobs, and in particular, covering these tycoon loans for a long time. I agree with those who say that the credits that have been – and will be seen from this – have been given to the Bell that it was wrong. Of course, it was wrong, but it was not right that credits were given for the construction of Stožice, which would never be returned. It was not right that the mayor or now the president of the biggest opposition party had taken the phone and called the bank and ordered how much money, how much credit, how many millions to give, of course without a guarantee. What is the difference between the concept proposed and the concept advocated by the opposition? Your concepts, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, have been, I think, at least three times already tested and at least three times have been recapitalised by the banks. Tell me, from these three times, recapitalisations, how many people are responsible for having these recapitalisations are in prison today. How much? We don't even know who did it. This law, this bad bank, it says in the law itself, we'll sort these things out. For the first time, as has been said, out-of-date deadlines are extended. Secondly, all those maps that will pass on to this society will no longer have confidentiality and will therefore be in line with the names and surnames, the left and right signatures on the contracts, and those who sat in the boards and answered those who sat in the control councils. So that's one aspect. Second of all, tell me, how many banks in the world are dealing with businesses, housing? How many banks in the world are the owners of the economy? Usually not, bankers and banks are banks that lend loans to the economy and the population. Those who deal with businesses, housing and so on, should deal with it. In this case, these bad loans will be transferred to this company and all banks with the necessary recapitalisation will deal with what the banks are – to credit the economy and the population. Talking about spending 4 billion euros in this way is, of course, a continuation of the charge. One of the fellow Members of Parliament from Positive Slovenia said he was sorry that there was so much of this bad spirit of accusation between us – indeed, I am sorry. What's been going on for the last two days is, of course, a disaster — so much to blame. But later it turns out that those who stood in front of the press were not speaking the truth in the National Assembly. Thus, of course, with some of today's developments, this spirit of accusation by the opposition's colleagues is, of course, completely destructive and unacceptable to my notions. To say: we are talking about social, but you are talking about increasing profits, capital, and I don't know what it is -- in short, I ask you, where are the times, who is the one who has led the vast majority in these 22 years of this country and who has brought the country into this state that we are in today. To talk about energy sales, about nukes, about selling thermal power plants, hydropower plants and so on – this is really pouring oil on the scars of people who work for very low money, on the scars of people who are unemployed, on those who have low pensions and, of course, on the condition that happens to us. To send this decision on this bad bank law to the Constitutional Court, it is simply a necessity and a compulsion, precisely because the opposition wants to achieve more negative effects with its own procedures, with its theatricality – or as it was said: worse for the country, the better for you in the opposition! However, we should be aware that this does not lead to the solution of this country, unfortunately. However, in such key matters, now that the country is important, when it is not meant to be important individuals, we should do certain things. Colleagues and colleagues, so far we have shown that we can manage the country – this is a coalition that does not share; a coalition that saves; a coalition that does not receive positive points because of these austerity measures; a coalition that simply saves this country. I'm really sorry, but it pains me to attack both the holding bill and, of course, the one you've done what you've done in the last 15 minutes before midnight, I'm sorry. In this bad bank law - you know well that they agree with such a law, we both agree from the European Central Bank, the Association of Slovenian Banks does not oppose, the European Commission agrees, the International Monetary Fund agrees and so on, only for the opposition is not good. To say that, of course, taxpayers should make a decision at the referendum is totally unacceptable. It is true, however, that with all these actions, we are taking the country to worse than we could and should. At this point in time, we should actually be working on how to make use of the EUR 3.5 billion of unspent European money, which is what we can do. But not to deal with how to free banks of these bad loans – so you have already tried three times to do it, but you have not finished the job, leave it this time. Both in the Holding Act and inside it, there are enough guards everywhere to make things go through the National Assembly — nothing will go behind closed doors and under tables. But it is true that, I believe, there are many who fear that these credit maps, which will no longer be kept secret, will open up and will be held accountable by many. It was previously said that this law does not imply a fourfold extension of the statutes of limitation, since the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act are more lenient and the accused are subject to more minor penalties. Then this law, or those two laws, must be further amended and corrected. If there really is a wish that those who have brought the country to the brink of collapse are responsible for it, then they should act here in a uniform manner. As far as this is concerned, I will support today's proposal to go to the Constitutional Court. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't pull this off like we suggested. After all the assurances, including international and European, this is not the only way, but at this point – you have participated in the drafting of this legislation throughout the summer – we have reached a point where some things have also been taken into account, anti-corruption commissions, and so on, and have drawn up laws and now they need to be enforced and implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Replica, Mr. Happy Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u85	Talking about throwing sand in the eyes about selling Slovenian energy, of course, is such a delusion that no one has ever seen it. The Minister of the Slovenian Government signed a letter with the energy unions, which he committed to selling only 50 less than 1 share of Slovenian energy. And secondly, the opposition did not trigger this referendum. It was set on by the unions. Today we are trying to say that it would be right for us to come together and try to solve this complication that the unions understood. Don't say the opposition wants nothing but bad for this country. Sorry, I didn't say that. None of us ever said that. But we said that this was a bad solution — worse than the one we could find together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Coalition, I don't know if after the scandal you have the thefts of referendum signatures, you still have enough faces to make it impossible for the union to collect signatures for a referendum on a bad bank or a bad marriage. I do not understand that you are not at all embarrassed, aware of the fact that, in my opinion, you have deliberately lost 36 half with more than 400 signatures of the same union, kept the decision until the last minute, and regularly and cyclically send the criminals to investigate their own signatures. Shame on you. Since the attack is of course the best defense, I am not surprised by today's debate. It is not surprising and, of course, it is clear to me that in these performances, mainly SDS and New Slovenia and, of course, someone who was formerly in the SDS, forgot that the SLS was in all government coalitions, only one great complicated rhetoric – the rhetoric of purgatory. The proposer, Mr Tanko, is talking about bad loans, aware of the fact that we know that he knows that the bad loans in the vast majority are the fault of the 2004-2008 SDS policy when Janez Janša led the government. They say when a snake bites you, you're afraid of twisted ropes. And the problem of bad experience is ahead of us today, so probably digging on two shores is what it is. But we have a bad experience from the government of SDS and Janez Janša in 2004-2008. That's why I don't understand why you're trying to frame us – especially Positive Slovenia, if we consider me one of the three here, despite all the 24 who haven't met this town – that we're guilty of everything that's happened in the history of this previous government. Let's get all this information out there, who got the credits without real guarantees. I didn't. I didn't get any credit without real guarantees. I paid my house off, and you can check it out. You publish everything – I think I urge you to publish everything – but not selectively only those responsible for your political accounting with the opposition. It is clear to me – and I can also see this on social networks – that you are instructed by your central committee to repeat the same mantra of lies and instigations. Mrs Irgle and Mr Grill, in fact, your Prime Minister and your party's president and your party's internal minister have these documents. We don't have them. If I had this document, I'd publish it today, the whole list. And you have these documents, and you're talking about not letting us publish these documents. I don't understand this game anymore – you have a document that says who got the bad loans and you're hiding it from the public and you're accusing us of not putting it in public. I mean, it's really a complicated policy. I was also talking about moral guilt. Mr Horvat from New Slovenia, look, you actually pumped the ball of the banking system that was managed to cut your closest ally, this is the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, you're closest. If the Roman Catholic Church is not an Ally of New Slovenia, then I don't know who is in this country. But this same Roman Catholic Church is in its own, I'll say, material greed with Bell One and Bell Two blew up almost a billion euros. The billions of euros are, in fact, twice as many as we have given up citizens and citizens in Slovenia — some voluntarily, some under duress — at the time of the first package of austerity measures. Twice as much! Every citizen, only Zvon One and Zvon Two, has been indebted to the Church for 500 Euros of these 2 000 500, as long as citizens and citizens are in charge of bad credits. I therefore once again call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to come before the public and publish all the lists in order to clarify this. I've heard twice today, and I'm going to quote my colleague Irglovo, who said, "Calls for friendly loans came from the president of the biggest opposition party, Zoran Jankovic." [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's a very accurate quote! [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, it was a phone call. Well, but the joke is, I'm just curious, did you get the earrings? Do you have any proof that this really came, or what you're talking about? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Mr Roman Jakič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I call on the government to publish this and stop harassing the opposition, to blame it for not having these loans published. And once again, if you give this document to the opposition, he'll be happy to publish it on his own and act on his own if you think we're guilty of anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Member, dear Roman! You know, to report to New Slovenia that we are allies of the Church or that the Church is our ally, but this is already a little too much and it does not come to you as an eternal Slovenian policy – I thought you had a little more width. I'll never discredit you myself, but that's what you usually do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I think I made a minor mistake because, Mr Horvat, you haven't discussed it yet. I don't think so. Yeah, 'cause I didn't run the session all the time. But you were brief, so I apologize for my comment. Mr Ivan Simčič is next. Get ready, Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Mr. Vice President, your honors are here! On 20 September 2012, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia laid down a proposal for a law on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to stabilise banks. Objective: By adopting the law, measures will be made possible in the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and thus the financial system as a whole, which will raise credit ratings for banks and the entire Republic of Slovenia and make it easier to access funding sources. This is just one of the necessary conditions for increasing economic activity, which we are talking about several times. Why the action? If the Republic of Slovenia fails or fails to implement the reform measures in a timely manner, it will have to apply for international financial assistance. It will no longer determine the measures alone, but with some gentlemen from Brussels, not uncles – I don't know what we're going to call them. The International Monetary Fund considers that the law governing the management of bank claims is the first step towards resolving accumulated bad claims, while the law on strengthening the stability of banks will help solve the financial problems of a number of large, non-financial companies; the unconstitutional nature of existing legal arrangements — the purpose of the first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Referendums and People's Initiative — is to prevent voters from taking a decision at the referendum that would prevent the abolition of anti-constitutional legislation. There's something else I'd like to say. We talk about referendums more than once. In view of the number of referendums held in the independent Republic of Slovenia, even in the previous term, when abuse was expressed at the Institute, I personally believe that these should be limited – not in any way in terms of narrowing the right to a referendum of citizens and citizens, but with some reasonable frameworks. The facts point to the ignorance of people with regard to participation in the referendum, with some exceptions: a referendum on the European Union and NATO. This has to tell us a lot about what people think about referendums. To this end, a new Law on Referendums and Human Initiatives has already been tabled to regulate the Institute of the Referendum. The proposal to initiate the procedure of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in this part is also tabled. I expect and hope that a reasonable decision will be taken in the course of the debate on these acts. It is only to consider, if the Institute of the Referendum is being abused, to consider some kind of responsibility of the initiators of the request for a referendum. It may also be about financial liability in terms of partly covering the costs of carrying out the referendum in the event that it fails. Because it's not cheap playing with referendums. We've had 20 referendums in the last 20 years. We spent some 80 million euros, and the realization of the participation of electoral beneficiaries was successful in three referendums. That's about 70 million euros. Let me put out here the budget of the municipality of Illyrian Bistrica from which I come. It's a 5-year budget for the municipality. The municipality is, you will not believe, the second-largest territorial, territorial integrity in this republic, and we in our place have not known the recession of the last five, six years, we have known it for the past 22 years and more. How much better would these millions of euros that we are talking about today be! What an economy we had before 1991, you can see in the library in our congregation’s monograph. And if I go back to the many millions that we are discussing today and which we are going into, I can only say that, for me, Article 50 of the Constitution – the right to social security – and Article 51 – the right to health care – has the advantage of having the right to a civil initiative before the Article of the Constitution. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the word, get ready for the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Weak and unsecured loans are to blame for talking about bad banks today. Look, I was surprised to hear that on July 10th of this year, when I read in one of the newspapers that a company had received EUR 50 million of credit and this company was supposed to have only one employee. What happened later — this is what the media said — submitted an application for bankruptcy on June 12. Dear colleagues, do you think that's normal? If that's true, up to 6 billion, as much as we're down today or as many bad claims as we have, it's not even that long a trip. So much so that we know what we're talking about. We're talking about 6 billion bad claims. Previously you spoke of the Roman Catholic Church, the Bell of One and the Bell of Two, and they are among them, and they must bear responsibility. For the record, there are no differences between us here - yours, that is irrelevant. We're saving the banking system now. See how it all started out that we were forced or the government was forced to adopt laws that we've been talking about a lot these past few days. First, the government became aware of the catastrophic situation in state-owned banks. The situation was significantly worse than what was said in the previous term, significantly worse. The ratings are falling, the situation of Slovenia is deteriorating and the Government has taken one major package of measures to get out of the crisis. One of these measures is also the law that we are talking about today – in fact, we are already talking about the consequences of the adoption of this law. Reasons for constitutional review. The fact is, there's really a chance of us losing our sovereignty. In fact, there is also an opportunity to lose the right guaranteed by the Constitution – we are talking about social transfers, pensions, public sector wages. The fact is, Slovenia has no money. You're talking about recapitalisation. What recapitalisations? In what way? The minister had previously shown or pointed out what would happen if we went to recapitalisation. Then our banks will be even more under attack, and it is possible that someone will pick them up for very little money. There's been a lot of coordination. I think we've dealt with this four times in the State Council, we've talked about this law endlessly. The banking system is crippled by its poor claims. Credit cards show us how valuable Slovenian banks are. Money is too expensive, so it's urgent. Today there was a lot of talk about the development of Slovenia, how to start the economy, to start development. How, in what way? The development of the economy is possible only with a stable banking system and we do not have it in Slovenia right now. Article 19 of the Act states that banks can also propose measures for the rehabilitation of banks. No one dictates to them how and how. They can decide for themselves. See, most banks that do not have a state share have already done so, and this was done as soon as they entered the crisis. I wonder why the banks that are state-owned didn't do it. Why didn't NLB, NKBM, Abank do it? I'm really wondering why. I think that this law will be an additional impetus to ensure measures that will ensure the stability of the banking system. Now I come to the essence of all the problem, which the opposition Members and Members are talking about so much and so widely. Of course, we are talking about Article 32 or 33, which allows disclosure and punishment for all those who have brought the banks to their knees. Here I see the logic of hidden people without faces, no more talking about uncles from behind. Who were the ones who lobbied, who were the ones who took advantage, and who were the ones who made it possible? I think that's the whole point of the problem. Why is he trying to oppose this law in every way? I'm speaking with the opposition. I'll come to the unions later. I think he's protecting people with names and names. This lobby is obviously so strong that it's got unions in it. The union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industry – I must say that I was also a member of this union when I was, before I became an MP, employed in Helios. In the latest statements by trade unionists or trade unionists, which I also know personally, they are concerned that the rehabilitation of banks will be paid with the sale of businesses and they want the first criterion not to be a price maximisation, but a long-term existence of these companies and jobs. Here, however, I am a little distant from this, or I am making a difference from how the opposition is very vehemently advocating opposition to this law and what union representatives really want. Every Monday, at least I have an employee from Helios who comes in asking what's gonna happen and what's gonna happen. I understand them, I understand that – now I will talk about Bell One and Bell Two – they made a mistake and someone has to answer for that mistake. I think now is the time when the President of the National Assembly has allowed us to re-engage to sign that we have a month to take a real step back, on the one hand and on the other. I am pleased that the Minister himself said earlier that he wants to continue talks and negotiations with the Trade Union of the agricultural, non-metallic and rubber industries, I am really pleased. From this place, I call on Tomaž, the president of this union – we know – to take a step back so that we can find a common solution this month, which will really go in a direction so that companies such as Helios and some of them will end up in the hands of someone who would buy them just to shut them down and destroy them. I think this is the right direction, but in fact, if we are to move forward at this point, we need to send it to the Constitutional Court to verify the constitutional consequences that could have occurred if this law had fallen to the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, get ready for the mag. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Thank you, Chairman. Once again today, a lovely greeting from the Member of Parliament and Members! You may recall that at the last session, when we talked about banks, I read articles from Mr Velimir Bolet, Dr. Ravnikar, as two authorities from this area in Slovenia. In the end, you found out that they were not real authority. And today I decided to read Nobel laureate, look at Nobel laureate for economics, even in Slovenia – you can look at the book, the book has the title Stop this crisis immediately. This book, which some countries have already followed and some have not, has been published this year. This book reveals the measures taken by the current authorities. You are doing exactly what this respected professor – this is the professor and Nobel laureate – describes as mistreatment of people. None of what it says in there is that you have to act to stop this crisis immediately, you do not, including the banks. Now let me read to you what the professor wrote on the back page: "The catastrophes are constantly happening, history is full of floods, famines, earthquakes and tsunamis, but this present disaster is so terrible and it must make us truly angry because it is absolutely unnecessary. There was no plague, there were no locusts, we did not lose technological knowledge, America and Europe should be richer, not poorer than five years ago. Even the nature of disaster is not something mysterious, during a great depression” – the professor here speaks of America of course – "they had a good excuse for leaders. No one really understood what was going on and how to act. Today's leaders have no excuse, they have the necessary knowledge and tools to end this suffering." What I will then add: but most of this, including the Slovenian coalition, does not take into account. Dear Members and Members, why is this law that you have proposed so extremely bad? First: instead of giving immediate effects, even if well implemented, effects over something, something, some time. Secondly: even if such a solution were to succeed, it would cost Slovenian citizens and citizens several billion more than alternative solutions. Therefore, honourable Members and Members of the Coalition, I very much look forward to the public meetings we will have in the coming weeks. I hope and I want you to read this book before the public faces. I also recommend this to Slovenian citizens and citizens, also to find out how much you are dragging them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Truda Cinderella, prepare for Mrs. Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We are in difficult times and all of us in this country must be aware of our role in solving this crisis. The greatest responsibility and weight lies in the policies that we must take decisions and decisive measures to stabilise public finances. However, taking action is a key factor in timeliness, as otherwise measures will be even more acute. I am sure that none of us want international assistance for the price of loss of sovereignty, which is the most precious constitutional acquisition, from which all other fundamental constitutional rights, such as human dignity and personal security, democracy, the rule of law, social rights and so on, are derived. And it is with the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks that we maintain our sovereignty, so the goal must be to overcome the crisis, to get out of it as winners, to live better and to create a secure and stable future. We have therefore found ourselves in a situation where we must also take decisive measures to stabilise public finances. If the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is not adopted, we will receive lower credit ratings of the country and companies. Credit ratings, however, are a key indicator of the state in the country and have a direct impact on the price of funding, both for countries and for businesses. The lower ratings may in our case constitute an inability to finance the country, but if possible, money will be significantly more expensive. The latter means significantly more money to pay interest, both for the country and for banks and businesses. As a result, companies will have to look for reserves at other costs, including labour costs, which will have an impact on the increase in unemployment. The tightening of the financial situation will also reduce social transfers, and there will be no more negotiating with the social partners, as there will be no negotiating. This will dramatically exacerbate the situation of weaker stakeholders and students and pensioners, which can be closely monitored in some Mediterranean countries that have been unable to look the truth in the eyes and fail to take appropriate action in a timely manner. I am confident that we will be able, together, to cope with the crisis and thus to maintain our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs Patricia Shulin has the floor, Mr Branko Ficko is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u101	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Today we have been talking for five hours about more of our problems, not just our banks, and everyone can be right or wrong. It's a good thing we're talking. We probably haven't told each other everything yet, but the key is to look the truth in the eye. So we found ourselves at the point of truth. Also in the work that our banks are suffocating with bad claims and that something for God's sake needs to be done differently than until now to make things better, because our banks are also a very bad servicer to our economy and our businesses. We like to compare ourselves very much with other countries, most often with Switzerland – that is what we hear most – but we see only their standard, which did not come overnight and not the way we walk. In my opinion, we are still a few light-years away from Switzerland, I think in all its segments. However, if I return to this law of ours for the stability of banks – it could have been in force for a month. So, first we adopted it on October 3rd, on which the Council of State vetoed and then re-published on October 23rd – that is to say, the day after the publication of the Official Journal. This law could have been in force for a month, which also means starting to solve problems. For these bank folders, for which both the coalition and the opposition agree – if I understand correctly – to open up, I hope that it will not remain only to open up, but to really find the culprits – those who have given credit; those who have received these bad loans, for which at the beginning when they were given and received, knew that they would never return. In order to make this responsibility public and to declare that appropriate sanctions are being sought for these people, not only for these people, but also for banks, I think that more responsibility must be sought in the heads of credit departments, which may not have signed the credit card on their own account, but they are responsible for what is happening in the bank, because they were finally paid to do their job well and honestly. Not to be overlooked here are those who supervised banks or banks. These too have a great and crucial responsibility. I hope that here too – this circle, which has been so well concluded and agreed – will find among these people those who have benefited from this way of lending, because in many people the wealth is worth much more than this person has ever earned or could have earned. So we still have a lot of work to do, and I hope it's not just about opening folders. At this point, we must all ask ourselves together about all our values, our morals, where we came from. Some say the values are lost. And I say that values have changed and have started to behave and accept differently in our environment, including on our part. To see what seems normal — or to look away — even if we know that this is happening in our area. In the local environment, we have people without whom no big deal happens – not in companies, not in municipalities, not elsewhere. Here we have cartel arrangements that the builders have also admitted. We have a very large grey economy, including crime, which is growing and I am also considering this controversial lending. So we get used to all of this in our environment and look away, even though we know it is happening. If I re-emphasize the case of someone being convicted of theft in their company in the local environment and signatures were collected for this man in the local environment in order to be forgiven. I ask, is this understandable in terms of morals and values? Since we are a transit country, we also have a lot of drug dealers between us, including a lot of prostitution. Today we are where we are, and many times I hear older people say that the crisis is also for something good and it seems to be true. We're running out of money, and that's why we're forced to talk about this bad bank, and we're going to have to talk about a lot more before we even look out of the swamp, because I'm afraid we're still floating in the air of error. I would like to read further the opinion of the International Monetary Fund on our banks. They say they welcome the establishment of the Banks Claims Management Company, as the bad claims, which were at the end of July in Slovenia's banks by 13%, are the main source of uncertainty and economic problems. They point out, however, that the rules of its operation must be precisely laid down, that the Company must be independent, politically independent and adequately financed if it is to carry out its function well. Above all, the company should have all the power to restructure or liquidate bad claims quickly. The International Monetary Fund also places the privatisation of banks and their political independence high among Slovenia's priorities. Finally, let me conclude with one money negotiation. Money does sometimes remove problems, but it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Thank you. Good-bye. A constitutional judgment, why? Because that's what Janšev's CK ordered. I don't know why you don't understand. Apparently, the story is so far away, it has to be that way. For most of you in this temple, it's probably O.K., but it's not for the rest of you, for the nation that sent you here. Why the referendum? Because it's tax money. Of course, you don't listen to our arguments, you don't listen to banking, you don't listen to similar experiences in Europe, and you don't listen to negative experiences, either. Of course, the people have the right to decide on their money. You're talking about a bad bank. The right term would be a stable bank, and now it's supposed to be Janša's bank. His campaign to destroy the banking system began in his first term when the banking system was broken down — and all the credit, he succeeded. The way banks are rescued in the European Union: of course, the profession should be first. The fact is, from the practice of transferring bad claims, that this is the most expensive solution for taxpayers and is a rescue of private owners at the expense of citizens. I reiterate that this bank is not saving the credit crunch for economic growth. He only saves individuals from the CK. This may be a reward for private owners at the expense of citizens. The current nervousness is of course very great – business is already changed, including staff, with Members already changed, because foreigners have already taken over the NLB supervisory board and thus accelerated sales of Slovenian companies and NLB itself. Three of the six members are already foreigners, the proposal is for two more foreigners, of course, and two more domestics must be resolved prematurely. This is NLB, which is another two-thirds state-owned. It is already controlled by foreigners, and at the same time, of course, it is a breach of the obligations of the Shareholder Agreement. The question is, of course, who are the foreigners representing and whose interests, and who allows them to do so? Let me get this straight. This is the rescue of private owners, this is the greatest possible burden of Slovenian citizens, this is the resolution of the bank in foreign ownership, that of course we are not talking about abuses and thus the bells will be unlocked and pumped to ring again. For me, this is nothing more than Janša's private bank, and this must be resisted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor, Mr Marijan Pojbič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The request to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the suspension of the application or the refusal of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is an integral part of the procedure. Procedures prescribed or permitted by positive legislation. At the time of the adoption of the law, there were many discussions on the content of this and on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Even today, the debaters in front of me discussed what had happened in our country that we had landed in a bank spasm. I agree with these discussions and wonder how it is possible that at a time when large loans were taking place in banks without guarantees, the Bank of Slovenia did nothing. I believe that the Bank of Slovenia is also responsible for the situation and that something should also be said about it. But getting out of the crisis requires a start-up of the economy, and we are all alone in this, and this will not happen until the banks are able to lend economies. That's why these banks need to be rehabilitated. We passed the law and decided in it how we would do it. Preventing the implementation of the law now, that is to say to postpone it, is a deterioration in the situation in our society. The failure to enforce the law is a bad message to those who give us credit. This means that the credits we will need to remedy the budget deficit will be even more expensive and will be increasingly difficult to obtain. We have to worry about that. Concerned that those dependent on social transfers will receive even less resources and that the crisis in our society will only deepen. It is therefore dangerous for this law to be rejected at the referendum, especially because those dependent on social transfers will receive even less aid and the crisis will only deepen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am an advocate of the rule of law and the rule of law, so I do not want anyone to understand it as if I were demanding that the referendum be prevented. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the constitutional right to decide on the law at the referendum. In my debate, I would just like to draw attention to the consequences that will arise for the country and its citizens by the failure to enforce the law. So, let me finish. I will not support the proposal for a law on the requirement of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the implementation of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in the referendum out of love, but out of necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, Ms Sonja Ramšak is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u107	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I rarely do what I do now, and that is, respected members and members of the Group or Yankovich's list, honourable Members and Members of the Social Democrats – please stop teasing the Slovenian people, stop teasing the people who voted for you, stop teasing the people who work for you. Please don't do this! If you do not tolerate the current government, if you do not tolerate the coalition, if you do not tolerate the Slovenian Democratic Party, then guess in such a way that the Slovenians and Slovenians will not be harmed, that our people will not be harmed, that those who voted for you and those who work for you will not be harmed! There's been a lot of rumors today that we're afraid of a referendum in the coalition. I must make it very clear to you that we are not afraid of a referendum in the coalition – but we are afraid of the consequences that will arise if the law is not adopted in time. We don't care if we spend any more of the money we have left to spend on the referendums – we rather spend it on what is absolutely necessary in this society, and that is to ensure that people can get to work, to ensure that those who work and wait for work are paid for their work. This must be the primary task of everyone in this National Assembly! I am convinced that there is no one here who could claim that it is not the most important and the greatest dignity of any individual, that he has a job and that he is paid for it. I'm sure there's no one in this National Assembly who would say that's not true. It is this proposed law, this proposed law, that will create the conditions for banks to start funding the economy again. You've been attacking and saying and saying that something has to be done on the revenue side, that something has to be done to get new jobs. Now that you have this opportunity – you must be told before the Slovenian public – you are adjusting with all the instruments available to you! That's why I'm asking you nicely. I'm asking you to understand. I urge you to be aware that Slovenia is in an extremely difficult situation and I call on you to come together in some of the key problems. It is urgent and important and necessary, before the entire Slovenian public, to make it very clear that we have an extremely, extremely difficult situation and that we need each other to negotiate, to talk. With regard to this law, several months have been spent in coordination with the coalition, in order to coordinate with the social partners and so on. So the government, the coalition, we Members have done everything we can to expect. What do voters and voters, our citizens and our citizens and our people expect from us? That we're working in their interest. I will support this initiative precisely because I am sure that we can get rid of the referendum – if we want to do this and if we step together, this option is certainly possible. We will save on the money we spend on the referendum and we will get Slovenia out of this difficult situation as it is. Please let us listen to the Slovenian man, the Slovenian people, for once, if you don't want to listen to me. I am sure that what I say and say is also what most of our people and our citizens think. Go a little among your people, go please, not just sit in Ljubljana and in a certain circle! Go among the people and ask them what their opinion of the referendum is. Don't tell me that the key problem is that the union produced this referendum! Ask yourself who was behind the union, that's an important question. Once again, we are talking about the current situation, the current situation, and we are saying that we are now saving Slovenia, not what happened yesterday, before yesterday or 20 years ago. Since then, our citizens and citizens cannot live. People now, at this moment, expect solutions from us and therefore please, for this very reason, let us step together for the Slovenian nation and do something for those who fight for us and work for us in difficult circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Polonca Komar has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u109	Your Honor! Speaking before me, he turned directly again to the Positive Slovenia Group and to our previous discussions. Again, I must point out that we have been misunderstood that the Lord has misunderstood us. We are working for the good of this country, so we are reminding you of the weaknesses and mistakes in this law and I ask you very much, Mr Pojbič, to stop this populism and by calling on me to do nothing. If you think it's a referendum to spend money, then it's that you think spending money on something that's constitutional and human rights, that's your problem. That the referendum has a poor view of the country is also largely your fault and do not rely on us. However, to urge us to step together in our inability to do so is by no means an accident. We are not here to come along with you, but to criticize, control and give measures and proposals to complement. If we think the marriage is bad, do not persuade us not to be bad by asking us, but give us arguments that will convince us of a different opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik – but I warn that if anyone mentions any parliamentary group, it does not mean that the whole parliamentary group will then replicate. The rule is that if you already replicate one – but fine. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Thank you, Chairman. The request for a referendum was not made by Positive Slovenia, given by workers and workers, citizens and citizens, and please do not talk about us making a request or that we are standing behind. Please don't do that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Polonca Komar has the floor, please. I'm sorry. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not have a procedural proposal, but I will only say, as a proposal, that a request has also been made for this law by the members of Positive Slovenia and some other signatories, so that the statement by Mr Kavticnik that they have not submitted it does not hold true. It is true, however, that this request was rejected for non-compliance with certain conditions because the signatures were copied. And if, gentlemen, you get replicas in a way that is not commercially appropriate, then at least be consistent in your statements and statements without trying to spin these stories. This is a particular problem for those who came from the educational system to the National Assembly. That's a big black dot.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Tanko, you spoke as a proponent. My mistake, yes. Is that right? Replica, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u115	I'm not going to say I'm sorry that I came from the education system because I enjoyed it much more than I did here and I had a much more correct conversation than I did here. However, we tabled a referendum after so many and so many signatures were lost or alienated, more than 394. At that time, we were forced, protected and somehow protected by this democratic system in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Polonca Komar, please. The next Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, I'm sorry. But before that, it's Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar. Mrs. Polonca Komar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. In today's comprehensive debate, I would like to add a few key points. Firstly, the implementation of the law will allow conditions for the awakening of the Slovenian economy. Banks are a key generator of economic growth through the financing of the economy. Currently, the Slovenian banking system is in a spasm. Banks only reprogram credits, but in fact there is no real funding for businesses. By enacting the law, banks will remove bad claims from their balance sheets, thereby clearing themselves up, and by combining the measures envisaged by the law, they will start redistributing funds for the necessary lending of businesses. Come in. The implementation of the law allows for the identification of responsibility for granting risk credits. It may identify those responsible for the weak financial situation of the banks that have impoverished the state treasury, the people and the whole society. These culprits will be sanctioned and ensure that such a situation in banks is prevented in the future. Without the enforcement of the law, the existing culprits will remain in their positions for the resulting situation in the banks and will continue their actions without any sanctions. What do we need to know? In the event of non-implementation of the law, foreign financial assistance will be necessary. If reform laws are not adopted, we will have to ask the Slovenians for financial assistance abroad. All key decisions in the country will be decided by foreigners in this case. If we Slovenians have been overly affected by this in our history, let us not allow it now. We still have time to get rid of the last train, so the adoption of the law is necessary, not only for us, but especially for the generations that are coming after us. Let me also point out the importance of the time component in the adoption of the law. In any case, the resolution of the banking sector is a key time component. The longer we delay the matter, the sharper the measures that we will have to take over over time. Even if, over a period of time, we had the perfect recipe for bank resolution and consequently for economies, it would be too late and the latter would not have achieved the effect that we actually need right now, right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor, prepare for Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I think that this time we are wasting on this point today is too much, or we could avoid it if the government, as in previous cases, could have done differently in the drafting and adoption of such important legislation. It is important that we are united in the fact that we are all aware of the seriousness of the situation, that we are all aware that it is necessary to revitalize our banking system in order for the economy to work forward – they also give them conditions for our future in their best conditions. However, the government and the proposers, as they have done so today or in this case, are proposing a law that is the only solution. A law that is very narrowly focused, which is not in line with the social partners, nor with other stakeholders, and then is not to expect any other options and options than that the process itself will be stopped somewhere. That the process will be complicated to such an extent that someone will have to take advantage of this institution of referendum to try to reject all of this happening, which is set up and going in the wrong direction in our opinion. And that's it. We are here today because we believe that the law is not good, that the law does not solve these things that have been heard today: that the law will untie this credit crunch, that the law will allow us not to be in debt for the future. This law will not allow all of this. We fear that this law is nothing more than a proposal for a financial gap from one cup to another — in any event, it is a burden and this gap remains for taxpayers. We didn't do anything about it. But we did what we talked about today: that we would create clean banks that would be cleaned, that would be easy prey for foreign investors or foreign buyers. Today, the talk was about losing our sovereignty; financial, economic sovereignty — perfectly correct! And I agree with that. In this way the buyers will buy our banks, our economy will finance wherever they want. If it is an economy that is competitive in the European Union or elsewhere, where they will not be willing to finance or promote it, they will not do so. Once again, we will depend on them, so placed in almost such a position as if there were already three of us from the European Union and dictated the pace and the way we should behave. Well, in any case, it's very, very bad for us. However, I would say that it is a waste of opportunity – in fact, it is an opportunity for the proposer to negotiate the government to the extent that a common solution and a common language are found. Listen, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I don't know – you have repeatedly stressed today that European financial institutions are so pleased with this proposal of our law on bad banks that they applaud it. You know what? When foreigners are so excited about us adopting such laws, the question is: Why is this applause, but why are they so excited? This is probably not because something good would be accepted for us. Probably because they see a new opportunity, they see the light prey that they will get by collecting or buying our banks that will be cleansed, that will be good, that will be vital, and that will be able to deal with them. Too bad this is a debate. It could not be. If we were to make a different decision, or if we were to prepare ourselves for better listening on our part — I think that marriage is a bad thing or that it is an expensive, expensive way to save. There's no other alternative here. Just this one, just one option. He doesn't discuss and he doesn't think about anything else. I think there's probably more alternatives. I would like a better alternative — if we would leave the debate if we would leave another month to unify. Look, we're wasting time! We're losing him today, too. Even if there's a referendum, we'll lose it. In the end, the referendum is a big risk. None of us know what the outcome will be, and the damage is for Slovenia. It is a pity because at this time we will not be able to repair the banking system, for which we are united, that it must be repaired as soon as possible so that the state can function as it must. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The requirement to assess the constitutionality of the request for a referendum is, of course, your legitimate right, one of the weapons with which you wish to prevent a referendum. Personally, I don't have a problem with that. But I do have major problems with the content of your argument. The last time we discussed a similar request for a Slovenian State holding company, I said that the arguments you are citing are simply extremely weak and have in particular a very torn legal basis. You state some claims that you believe the Constitutional Court will summarize them and attach them to them. Well, first of all, I'd say that you're saying that the existing unconstitutional situation and the unconstitutional consequences can only be addressed by enforcing a bad bank law. You further claim that the enforcement of the law is the only way to eliminate an unconstitutional situation. You know, there's a whole bunch of solutions in the world to how we can also solve the problems of bank liquidity contractions and so on and, of course, the problems we're in. And you're saying it's the only thing and it's the only thing that's unconstitutional. What would probably require a constitutional review before that is your own marriage. This law itself is so badly written that the Law-Legislative Service has told you that your law on bad banks is contrary to the law and the Constitution, internally inconsistent and that it suspends quite a few laws; the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on Banks and Custody, the Penal Code, the Law on Courts, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and the Bond Code. Well, a few laws would call it that, wouldn't they? This is said to draw the last possible arguments to prevent the referendum, and this of course means expressing human will around the law, for which you have not gathered enough will to agree with the coalition not to talk about the social partners. People just don't trust you, "that's a fact"! The fact is, in the meantime, you have changed your own strategy several times to save the banks – from promising to sell them, not to spend a tolar or a euro of state money, and so on, to the solution that you have brought to us in your hand and say that the only one is possible. Well, let's see what are the ways in which banks can be saved in other countries – to maintain bank liquidity through loans from the central bank, recapitalisation, transfer of bad claims, guarantees for bank liabilities, assistance to bank directors and a combination of those. The most common combination of these is used. The fact is that what you are offering us is the most expensive possible solution, and what is most questionable is that this will also solve the banking problems of private banks. This means that Slovenian taxpayers, including those with a guaranteed salary, will participate in solving the problems of private banks. It is a moral gamble that will undoubtedly go to the expense of the citizens. This solution is expensive — the most expensive thing you can offer us. The problem is, of course, the valuation of banks, discounted transfers and their subsequent sale, as well as the pursuit of whose interest. You know, buying back claims won't solve the economic situation, because buying back the claim will only solve the bank's situation for one year. In view of the fact that the government is making the economic situation worse by saving, the purchase of the claim will not increase the lending of the economy. By the way, consider the case of Ireland — despite the fact that millions and millions have been confused in order to save banks through a bad bank, regardless of the fact that the country’s debt has increased, the country’s credit crunch has not been eliminated. The fact is that a bad bank is a key priority that you are defending yourself in order to ensure the concentration of absolute economic power in the hands of the Government and to establish a parallel legal system without public scrutiny with a view to privatisation. Let us also suspect that there will be a great expediency of individuals. So, of course, "no" to the content itself, and I'll also say "no" to the law that's attracted to hair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor, prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u123	Your Honor! With all the stories I've been listening to in the last days and today, let me tell you my story. It is not yet known whether it will be a comedy or a tragedy, which we will decide today – Members in the coming days and weeks, 9 people in these, and perhaps finally a good million interested Slovenians and Slovenes under the care of foreigners. There lived a man named Slovenia. He had five brothers and two sisters. Since he felt that he was supporting everyone else because of his good service, he decided to go his own way. His brothers and sisters resented him, but he chose his freedom. It took him a few days to get to freedom, but he did it and he was happy. He didn't realize he made a mistake. In his first moments of freedom, he did not break all ties to his past. This past tormented him and burdened him every day, every year of his life. As a result, he became more and more poor. Everyone wanted something from him. His account was getting emptyer. More. He became dependent on a variety of aunts and uncles who inadvertently exhausted him. He became a beggar, dependent on others, and a prisoner of his dreams. He ran out of money, even though he dreamed of Switzerland. He dreamed of a rich train headed for France and Germany, but he woke up on the boat against Greece. Nobody wanted to lend him the euro. For a short time, someone lent him a dollar, but he also dried up. His entire estate was only worth a tenth of his assets a few years ago. Before landing in Greece, he was given the last line of reasonable winds to change course. Uncles and aunts wanted to block it and send it to the gut — everything they could do to get rid of it. Will it be saved by foreigners who can be inhospitable? His bad news was telling him: recapitalize yourself. He wondered how, if he had nothing, no one was interested in him. He saw only two options: a long-lasting but unworthy solution with recapitalisation and a second path – a rot and wet sail would have put aside and turned the course with a healthy shielded main core. Your Honor! The end of the story is in our hands. Members and Members of Parliament, today we decide that we must not fall into the Greek Cherry and support the proposal for a decision before us. The second is that the Constitutional Court decides that the direction against Greek ferrets is destructive and that the failure to enforce the law has bad, very bad consequences for the state and citizens. In the end, there's still a third, final path to salvation. Citizens and citizens decide that this will no longer go forward and support a solution that will make it easier for all of us, especially the economy, to survive. Dearly beloved, I urge you not to make this drama a tragedy and preserve the survival of Slovenia. Let us end the 20-year tradition of moral gambling, which has cost us dearly under the trade mark of national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I received a change in time — but in time — so I have one minor change. It's mag. Alenka Bratušek, and again, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Thank you for this story, tragedy, drama, whatever it is, but by the way, Slovenia is a woman's sex. I don't know how you determined he was a man — but fine. In your opinion, Slovenia is a man. I'm very glad my colleague told you what the IMF expects of us. The IMF, like all of us, realizes that the rehabilitation of the banking system is still necessary, but it certainly does not say that it is the only possible solution and it is right to tell people. Two things have been read: all the rules must be specified. I suggest you reopen your marriage, where you will see that everything that will be decided will be decided by law. Ladies and gentlemen, the law defines nothing – no investment, no value, no value, no who, no nothing! Everything will be regulated under the law, and I am sure that this is very contrary to what the IMF wants. And second, this is a fairy tale, that this institution will be politically independent. This is a fairy tale, ladies and gentlemen! This marriage is absolutely a bad solution, whether we are today or we are listening to it from ten o’clock in the morning. There are also different, better solutions that you don't want to hear. Once again – here and now, you and in front of all those who are watching us – we immediately want all the information to be revealed and once again we invite you, the ruling coalition, to publish! Don't blurt out and mix the fog about what you're going to do. You will only do so so that this, as it were, politically non-motivated institution, where your people will sit alone, can access credit maps. Of course, then you'll choose which one you show and which one you don't. I am sure that those who decided why Zvon received such unsecured loans, why T2 received 88 million loans secured with 2 million in the New Ljubljana Bank – this will be hidden and you will selectively point out what you think is right. Therefore, once again, we urge you to amend the legislation, prepare it, bring it to the National Assembly and have our votes. Publicly, you have our votes – do not blur! There are other solutions, there are different solutions. If you want to decide what the best solution is, you must probably first know how many bad claims there are — we are talking from a maximum of 4 billion. You will not believe that the only draft law we have seen in the working group – but we have only seen the law once, that you will not be very smart about how you coordinated this law in the working group. That law provided unlimited guarantees, unlimited! Even 20 billion, if you thought it was the same -- that's unfortunately unconstitutional and you had to write 4 billion, even though you can't explain today whether it's only 4 billion, whether it's 2 billion, or 6 billion. Four of you seemed kind of smart. It is very strange that today the Minister or the Secretary of State is not with us, although I think it is his duty to consider such materials in the National Assembly in order to be decent enough to listen and try to tell us something and not just to explain that he is sleeping peacefully. If the Minister of Finance sleeps peacefully, I don't know why he threatens every day if it doesn't, if it doesn't, if it doesn't, it'll all get worse. People who are hungry, people who do not have to give their children something to eat, find it difficult to tell them that they will get worse every day — I don’t know what’s worse than not giving your child something to eat. Today, we're talking about $5 billion, like we're talking about a couple of 100,000 euros. We're talking about 5 billion taxpayers' money! Once we get something, if we're gonna sell it, we're gonna get it back, but we don't know yet. So far, we're talking about 5 billion -- half the budget -- and you think it's strange that some people want to make decisions at the referendum. About 5 billion! It's very irresponsible for people who think they're behind their signatures to say someone knocked them up. I believe that Slovenians and Slovenians have their own minds, and they know why they're signing. I don't think anyone in this National Assembly should have allowed such statements, by the way. I have already said that I will not support this proposal, which, by the way, is also poorly copied from one of the previous requirements. But I ask you to stop deceiving Slovenia, to stop deceiving our people, that this is the only possible solution, because it does not. All the institutions and we agree with them, say that the problem must be resolved in Slovenian banks, that it is necessary to eliminate the credit crunch, but that respected ladies and gentlemen, this solution will not do so. That's what the Chamber of Commerce told you, that's what the director of the largest bank in the country told you: it's not going to end the credit crunch. You're still yelling how nice and right this is going to be. Only 5 billion more holes will be in public finances, and I am convinced that if we already had your miracle troika in Slovenia today, we would not be talking about such a solution, but we should find a cheaper, I am sure, a better solution. For the end of you, like many of my speakers from Positive Slovenia, I once again call for you to reveal everything – not to hide and to blur. Put the list on the table, put it in the press, in the paper, and not just the chosen ones, but everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor, Mr Ivan Hršak is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I will support the decision on the request of the National Constitutional Review Chamber, because for some time now we have all been talking together about the need for banks to be stabilised – and for several years now we have never been heard – that in a bad situation there are mainly state banks, despite many recapitalisations, despite the billions that have already been invested in them. We have invested a lot of money in this, and the results are devastating. We're talking about NLB, the New Bank of Credit Maribor and Abanki. They are dealing with loss while most other banks are doing well, and there was no difficulty in paying high rewards, even though in the economy we know that the one who is doing well, not the one who is doing the minus and the loss. Last Saturday or last Saturday, we were able to watch demonstrations of trade unions from which a person would expect that for a bad bank, they had to find out who got the credit, while playing the workers, not paying them social contributions, forgive them, drag them by their noses for a few months, and then, of course, they never saw them. Perhaps this is the opinion of one of the journalists: "In a normal country, unions have nothing to do with the preparation of the budget of the state bank, the owner of the state property." With him, I wonder if it's normal or why the teachers' union supports the referendum against a bad bank? Why does the Chemical, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry Union support the referendum against the bad bank? You'd expect people in the rubber industry to have a whole bunch of other problems. I have found only one such company, Sava Kranj, and perhaps it is the case that the President of the Sava Kranj administration was president a while ago, i.e. a member of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. There's another case I'd like to find here. We know that Mr Marko Golob of the AUKN is negotiating on behalf of the rubber industry union, which we have resolved a long time ago. I can't help but wonder who has found whom, the rubber association of him or perhaps Mr Golob them – where they met and agreed to such fruitful cooperation, of course everything is possible with us. The trade unions have also stressed several times that those who have taken money to Cyprus and other tax havens should bring money back, and those who support someone who has money in Cyprus — we all know that. Apparently, they can't talk to each other first. At the same time – colleague Kavtičnik, it was nice of you to enjoy your schooling at your work. Your former unionist, Mr Strukelj, at every extra burden of teachers, or even before they are burdened, explains that they work too hard and prepares a general sentence. Apparently, they also have different views about what and how things are going on in education. Several times it was said that the opposition's proposals were not taken into account. In this marriage, indeed, because we differ in concept – you believe in one solution, we believe in another. With the solution you believe in, you're putting millions back in a bag with no bottom, which, by the way, is leaking somewhere, and we'd like to figure out where. Your concept is different from what we're defending. We are not saying that a bad bank is the only option, but it is the option we believe in. That is why we are also defending it, and that is why we have proposed it, and that is why the law is proposed. Since the first day we started talking about a bad bank, you've had a whole bunch of ideas about how we should do it and do it and what we should do, and you've had three years of time. We have proposed several times, we have not proposed, we have requested an extraordinary session on the subject of banks. Demanding to look at bad loans to see what's going on in banks. Some of your colleagues from Positive Slovenia were in the previous mandate in the SD, others in Zares, some in the LDS – all of these were coalition parties in the period 2008-2011. President Zareza, Mr Gantar, was even President of the National Assembly. Every time he refused our request to discuss what was going on in banks. So, those who are in the organs of this party, and what some of you are sitting here – obviously you can be in several customers at once, but let's leave this, it's your business if you manage to work in so many areas. Mr Jakič, your President, Mr Zoran Jankovic, himself in the Views of Slovenia said that he went to meetings at the NLB and requested from the administration a loan for the Cologne project: "Yes, I participated in this discussion because I claim that this will be the best centre." In 2009, Mr Drasko Veselinovic, the first NLB banker, resigned after three months and said, "Some of them first severely criticized me in the media and then pressed my colleagues in the administration to grant a loan to a certain company on the same day." This, by the way, in the 2008-2011 mandate when Janša was not a government. The fact that we should publish documents and lists of debtors to banks or those who received credits is quite complicated with our documents. If anything is published, various services that selectively choose what they will react to, including the information officer, will move very quickly. And then penalties are paid for such offences. Therefore, care must be taken about how and what is published and when it is published. Perhaps when things are ripe, they can be published. My colleague Jakič has repeatedly used the words "our central committee". I'd ask you not to use it. If the Central Committee works with you, we don't have it. If you have as many things arranged as they used to be on the Central Committee, it's your problem, not ours. Talking about who the snake pussy is, you're acting like one. [[...]] At the time of the publication that signatures were not enough, there was an extraordinary panic, an extraordinary situation, a collection of signatures, which resembles the peak of a snake, not what we do. I will support the decision on the request of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. My colleague, Jakič, your colleague named you, but you weren't misunderstood, she just explained her point of view on this. The same goes for Mr. Kavticnik, as I see him there. I don't think any of you were misunderstood. That's why I can't give my word for the replica. I'm sorry. Mr. Ivan Hršak is next [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural – Who? Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Mr Vice-President, we have been both in Parliament for a long time, and what you have done now is unprecedented, definitely. Where do you come from and where - whether you can please quote the rules of procedure - so that you can tell me how Mrs Jeraeva understood me or didn't understand me. Can you please read me an article of the Rules of Procedure, from which it follows that I cannot get a replica if a Member or Member mentions me or mentions a group of Members. Please explain this to me, so I can see what I can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u130	Mr. Jakič, just because a colleague or a colleague mentions you by name doesn't mean you get a replica. You get a replica when you're misunderstood and I've estimated that you've been very understanding, but that colleague Alenka Jeraj thinks otherwise and that's what she explained. That is why I will not give you a replica – so I have made up my mind and have no reason to change my mind. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Dear President, I would ask you to seriously consider your decision, because this is really something that happened in this National Assembly for the first time. So far, it has been widely accepted that someone who has been mentioned by name and surname, and more than once, as discussed, has the right to a replica. Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure states: "Every debater shall have the right to reply to the debate of another debater, as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was not only misunderstood or misinterpreted." How he understands that his debate has been interpreted or understood, with all due respect, cannot be decided by you. Its basic right as a Member of the National Assembly is to decide on this. I respectfully ask that you change your decision and allow Mr Jakić to replicate, because otherwise we deviate from all established practices and from the parliamentary practice that has been established in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u132	In accordance with Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure and the method of work of the President, I have assessed it as I have assessed, and I insist that I have assessed it correctly, so I give it to Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Time's up. By the end of this year, decisive measures are urgently needed to stabilise public finances, reform the labour market and, of course, pension reform. It is undeniable that banks have as much as €6 billion of bad claims, while the state budget foresees revenue of €8.6 billion in 2013, a comparison being either catastrophic or horrifying. So far, the resolution of the bad banks within the banks has shown that this is not a rational way, so I support the proposed way of saving banks through the so-called bad bank. Unfortunately, however, the opposition and the unions are not for any solution proposed by this Government, but they are all still for the referendum. And I'm asking you, what does the bank rehabilitation union have to do with this? To help you answer – absolutely nothing! Together, they are driven by a single desire or idea to prevent them from seeing, through a view of credit cards, who, under whom, under what, if any, insurance, is credited. Today, Alenka Bratušek of Positive Slovenia said that the worst loans were granted between 2006 and 2008, under the so-called first Janša government. Well, if this is true what Alenka said, then she must only look forward to revealing the irregularity, not that she signed under the SDH referendum, but also, of course, supports the call for a referendum on the so-called bad bank by the KNG syndicate. It just doesn't make sense. Positive Slovenia has all the time argued that it is against the referendum, but still 15 minutes before midnight it submitted 30 signatures for the SDH referendum, of course with the help of Mr Sreč Meh and two unrelated Members. That points to their uncreditable policy. Finally, I must make it clear that I always respect the decisions of the electorate and the electorate, whatever they are. I believe they know how to make a reasonable decision in their decision, but I ask myself justifiably whether simple people understand that law enough to be able to make the right decision, or whether they will only decide who is more confident when monitoring the debates in Parliament, even though they are convinced by those who are in fact wrong. I sincerely hope that the Constitutional Court will not allow any of the referendums that have been signed, because otherwise we do not feel well. I will, of course, support the decision on constitutional review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Maja Potrat, prepare the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! I don't have a problem with the referendum, not with the constitutionality requirement, so I'm not going to talk about it. However, I have heard many things in the debates, and I cannot help but remind myself that we have changed the Constitution and written Article 3a, by which we have transferred some of our sovereignty to organisations acting in accordance with human rights, security and so on. That is why, after we have decided to join the European Union in such a high number, the debate on sovereignty is problematic in the way we discuss these issues. Just as it's difficult for me to be intimidated by a threesome right now, and I don't know if we have a threesome composed of the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission - representatives, of course. Perhaps this fear is due to the fact that Dr Krušec was also a member of such a troika in 2010 and has experience in what he said to countries across Europe. We can look at each thing from different angles. I don't know why in these situations, where people have a legitimate feeling that their expectations are not met, politicians and politicians have the right to increase their fear. We have to take pictures of their real state, but we can't intimidate them. And when we talk about a bad bank – Social Democrats we never talked about having a concept like that in law that is unacceptable to us. You wanted to have a bad bank in the Slovenian state holding company anyway. But because this solution is also in the bad bank law, because those claims that will not be sold after the bad bank's abolition will either way be transferred to the Slovenian state holding company, and the story will be well received – we only have to decide for the color. Now, the thesis on how banks are important to the economy. We say it's the heart, or it's the spine, and without the spine, it's not the head. And now the logical question, very simple one that every human being understands. If banks are so important to the economy, why sell them? Why sell them if we are aware of some basic facts: in 2004 the banking sector was in such a way that we had 1.9 billion reserves, deposits were larger than loans. In 2008, this ratio became 12 billion 900 million more debts than deposits. Which means — and these duties are from abroad — that we were already dependent on foreign countries. It might also be good to say if you know the information on how private banks or foreign banks acted. Who did they loan? What was the first measure of private and foreign banks, not only in Slovenia, but also in Croatia? They stopped lending to the economy, but they gave loans to private people. Where, then, did this law guarantee — because we will save all the banks — that we will get rid of this marriage from shame? She didn't guarantee it. I am very sorry that you do not also tell people that the credits will be bought out – those who will buy credit from economic operators who will not be able to repay credit – that these loans will be at a discount price. When this buy-in is replaced by another buy-in, someone can end up with an economic operator by 20%. Those who won't be able to sell will be transferred to SDH. By letting myself explain things a few times, I restored them to myself — like an old teacher — so that I could simply say what people need to say simply. You're scaring them with some stories about tycoons, and people are already pissed off about tycoons anyway. When you talk about someone being afraid to reveal something – but look at how the banks dealt with the granting of credits, which were those who helped inspire the credit balloon, who acted responsibly. Then let's ask ourselves whether it's really wise to believe that everything that comes from abroad is better than what's at home, even if it comes from a party or customers who have in their own name "Slovenian". As for morals and other things, it would be good for high ethical and moral standards in politics to inform those who call for morals first of all. It would be very good, very useful, as the credibility of Slovenia would also increase by strengthening the reputation of individual holders of important political functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get ready, Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u137	Good-bye to all of you! On the fundamental development issues of this country we should always reach consensus; we should all follow the consensus as some values, but we are witnessing a very sad situation. The unwillingness of a large part of the opposition to seek this consensus – which is in fact a reflection of the power at all costs, and if the state fails, and then it is reflected in political projects such as the referendum that are before us these days – is in fact a threat to Slovenian sovereignty and thus the fundamental constitutional order of our country. This is already the reason why the Constitutional Court should not allow any of these referendums because it is fundamental developmental issues because it is a matter of finding solutions that would move the car from a dead point. The explanation of the union's proposals in this referendum is tragic. They're worried about jobs. Who gives jobs? Entrepreneurs – especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which in all modern societies is the one that drives the whole country and thus is the foundation of its sovereignty. Today, sovereignty is not primarily defended in the battlefield, but defends itself with good and successful entrepreneurship. This entrepreneurship needs a functioning banking system for its existence, for its work. At the moment, he is not in Slovenia. The method of implementation of the bad bank has been tested in some countries, from Germany onward, and much has been done. In many of these countries, where they accepted it in time, when the former government unfortunately slept here like a winter bear — and after two years we heard that they would start work — they had already had an additional development cycle. It's about trying to paint one of these methods into Slovenia and solving what to get rid of. Old wisdom says it's better late than never. Care for jobs is therefore a concern for active entrepreneurship. When I listened to the debate earlier, I wondered where we lived, where we lived by our values. It was said that banks in a country don't lend them to the state anymore, but they give them to, you know, private people. Yes, listen, in Slovenia we just met in the previous referendum with the fact that we have about €14 billion unproductively cemented in state entrepreneurship if I use this term. While private entrepreneurs - and they are entrepreneurs - are incomparably more successful in all macroeconomic indicators, not only in Slovenia, but in any comparable country in this world. We all need to emerge from these ideological platforms to talk about modern values in the way the whole of united Europe speaks about them. That we will, however, be willing to look for consensus on any issue and, in this case, talk about additional coordination, for example with the social partners. What, though, if a part of the opposition is dominated by power? What's that supposed to do? Then they are political projects, such as this latest one through this referendum, and those that are now under review in the Constitutional Court – because this is a political project. It doesn't help. This is proved by the other, who has been in line with the social partners. Did that help? Nothing. Also, a number of signatures were collected in one of the opposition's members and a referendum was required. Where was the social partnership then, and where was social coordination? That's what's been forgotten. This, of course, testifies that in this case this is an empty excuse, that it is a fundamental issue of values, what we put at the forefront, and that unfortunately in Slovenia we are always returning to the starting point, that the value of development should be at this moment, because of the situation in which we are, in the first place. In order to be able all of us to have so much state power within us – Drnovšek's late doctor showed her many times – that we would know our political interests at a given time to submit to this search for common goals, for common development. This means allowing the current Government and coalition to adopt, to the best of their ability, the basic laws that move this economic car from a dead point; allowing the tested established quality methods that have proved to be in comparable countries – say, Germany is comparable to us because of a similar legal system, it is a Roman-German legal order – a replication into Slovenia; finding other options that have not worked so far; first, the banking system, and then everything else that is stifling Slovenian entrepreneurship; allowing them to breathe with full lungs; allowing entrepreneurs to open up new, high-quality jobs to compete equally in the European and global markets. But God's people need a functioning banking system first. Someone used to say: we're wasting our time, allowing a referendum. If there's a referendum, it means months of stalemate. I personally trust people, and I believe that such a law could also be confirmed at the referendum if all the arguments for the current law are really presented to people. But the months will be lost and the time lost for this country can no longer be restored. This raises the issue of Slovenian sovereignty. Full power, more than ever. If sovereignty is threatened, the entire constitutional order is also threatened. Once again, this is a fundamental and sufficient reason for the Constitutional Court not to allow any of these two proposed referendums to be carried out. I hope it will, and of course I will vote in favour of the Constitutional Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this debate today – for more than five hours – it is actually a copy of the debates, many of the debates we have already had on this law. At the beginning of this mandate, it was clear to all of us that our banks were in a catastrophic state and that, of course, the start of entrepreneurship and the end of the credit crunch required the rehabilitation of banks. Everyone in this room, all Members of Parliament have agreed on this and have tackled this problem. Unfortunately, despite coordination, despite the great desire on the one hand and on the other, to find a common consensus, we somehow found ourselves on different shores with two different concepts of bank resolution. One concept you advocate in the opposition is the recapitalisation of banks — a concept that has already been tested and we know that it was not good, that it did not produce fruit. That is why, of course, we have reached out to another concept, which has already been tested in Europe and has also been used by many European countries – the establishment of a special agency for bad credits or the so-called establishment of bad banks. And as such, the law was adopted. Today, some in the opposition have once again been given the opportunity to refer to this law on strengthening the stability of banks, once again a whole series of indications with which you have manipulated them. What bothers me, in particular, is that you always and always repeat that with this law we will invest €5 billion in banks, when you know exactly that this is not true when you know exactly – and it has been explained many times – that in this case it is a state guarantee, a state guarantee and not in such numbers as they are mentioned. These numbers will be substantially, substantially smaller in the final stage. When we mention this number, it is the legal limits of these guarantees. I am also disturbed by the fact that we want to prevent a referendum by means of this initiative for constitutional review. There is no – Members, coalition, proponents, we cannot prevent this referendum, it can be prevented by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court as an institution of constitutional and legal experts, which we must trust. I trust them, and I am confident that those who will determine whether they will be guilty of constitutional injustices by referendum or by the fact that this law falls to the referendum. Their role will then be that this marriage will not go to a referendum. Look, in my opinion, this is a question - this is a question such as how banks are being saved is absolutely not a matter of referendum decision-making. Therefore, I will certainly support the request for a constitutional review of this referendum requirement, because I am sure, once again, I stress that if the law falls, fundamental constitutional rights will be violated. The State has a large part of the expenditure side of the budget legally determined. Let us just remind ourselves of the social transfers worth about a billion euros to the pension budget, which is almost a billion and a half. If we don't get rid of the credit crunch, I don't even hope to think about the drastic contractions they're looking for. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] – I will, of course, support the request for a constitutional review of the referendum initiative. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Boyan Starman. Prepare the mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I have a little time. The most precious thing for us is to do nothing and wait. I've estimated that it costs us about two to three million dollars a day, costing our taxpayers. 50 to 90 million euros a month. Imagine what we are losing — what is the situation in our banks today. Banks have already announced 800 million write-offs for 9 months, the Central Bank calls for additional recapitalisations. If we want to make the recapitalisation in the way that some would like it, we must immediately give an additional billion savings in the budget. Where are we gonna get them? Please put them on the table, and I'm also for this thing to be done. That is why it is true, and with this law – if it were already in force and it is a pity that it is not valid – we are actually doing ourselves so much damage and we are preventing the banks from in some way being rehabilitated, operating normally, because they would shake off these loans and there would be no need for additional recapitalisations. I don't see any fear of anyone selling it and so on. This is total economic stupidity and disaster for me when we're playing with our assets in this way. True, look, I was not wrong about how much we lose every day, allowing for such a state as is a state of complete anarchy and confusion. Banks, businesses don't get credit, there's a lot of indirect damage here; in short, disaster is what we're doing and what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the constitutional review of this law, especially because I believe that the banking system needs to be repaired as soon as possible. I think we should have saved him a few years ago, and we didn't. With all due respect for the referendum – I appreciate it as the biggest democratic one, I can also say in some ways the event and expression of will – I believe it is a time component and also that the rejection of such a law would actually make the economic, economic, social situation extremely worse and, of course, the constitutional provisions would be violated. Today we are talking about a law that began its journey in the summer months on the basis of an agreement between the coalition and the opposition that the banking system is being resolved or that it begins to be resolved by a special law. It is likely that many remember that the first solution was made by a common law for the so-called state holding company and for the resolution of the banking system. This was done on a proposal from the opposition and the opposition was well aware of the solutions in this law during the summer months and also participated in the working group that prepared or decided on the concept. Unfortunately, there are not many concepts here – some of them were listed. On the one hand, we can talk about guarantees. On the other hand, that banks solve their own claims, which is, of course, the most — if we want — business normally, or that a third party solves them instead of a bank, some new legal person who can do it in a slightly different way. This law includes: firstly, the solution to transfer these claims to a special legal person. Why? Because, above all, state banks have not established their legal entities in the last three or four years, and not before that, or perhaps even have legal entities, but have not given them the task to resolve the claims at issue. This was not the case in 2008 nor in 2009 when it occurred that these contested claims were the most. Their value is actually increasing from day to day. We knew such a solution in the early 1990s. At that time, the banking system was being rehabilitated through a bank recovery agency, and finally, we have to say that this system was not successful at the time. The other concept is, or the one most frequently mentioned here, recapitalisation. We also know this system because in 20 years we have recapitalised all banks and, above all, state banks. Why did we recapitalize them? In order to satisfy the capital adequacy prescribed by the Bank of Slovenia. Certainly, it is not possible to keep repeating one concept and to keep paying tax money to banks if the quality of management is not guaranteed in the bank itself and if it is not ensured that banks no longer have a burden of poor claims. The profession was mentioned here several times. The profession is shared in the world, in Europe and in us. We have countries that have introduced the resolution of the banking system through so-called bad banks – even in Germany. I think they've got two or three bad banks there and they've actually done it. After all, Ireland was mentioned. Ireland is forecasting economic growth. Ireland is forecasting economic growth and Ireland has recovered these banks in a slightly different way, mainly because private banks were themselves in Ireland. This comparison with Ireland – more needs to be looked at than just a few basic data, even if they are written by the most famous Slovenian economists. Ireland had to continue to nationalise banks because they were private banks themselves. Banks issued bonds and the state collected these bonds in order to hold in Ireland today mainly state banks. So she solved the private banks and the case is not the same as it is here, so this inaccuracy can give some listener the wrong information about what was actually happening there. The Bank of Slovenia was mentioned. The Governor of Banka Slovenije spoke here and said what was the situation in the banking area. The Governor of Banka Slovenije said how many bad claims we have under different methodologies, which he also mentioned. Unfortunately, some Members from Positive Slovenia may not have been present at this meeting or at this meeting of the National Assembly. I don't know, maybe they were present on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where the Governor and other representatives of the Bank of Slovenia specifically explained once again how many controversial claims there are, what is the situation in the banking system and so on. We've got a situation. The situation is well known. It is true that this is confidential information and that we cannot now speak out loud about how much this is — because this is how the law binds me. After all, some things have already been published. I think some people who say they don't have the data would get it or they could go to these meetings. Some, so to speak, forgive -- those who said: marriage is bad, because it is bad. This is a political assessment of a policy, and if it doesn't tell you why it's bad and where it's bad, then it doesn't satisfy me. It may sound good, but to talk about marriage being bad because it is inconsistent, or it is bad because it has been prepared by this government — it simply does not hold. Will the banks save or will the bad bank rescue foreign banks? No, no, no. The Special Commission will decide which claims will be recognised as bad banks. The second point: how will it be valued? How will these claims be valued? They will be valued by monitoring everything by the European Commission. That's familiar. Because otherwise it will be state aid, illegal state aid, and there will be a lot of problems here. So I don't have a problem with that, the law actually solves this. Secondly, of course, it is a complete delusion: today we do not have the names of the bad claims. What was said — Mrs. Bratušek, who is unfortunately not here to tell her that there would probably be named bad claims for half or even a book. These claims are – I think she knows how they are classified according to the specific methodologies A, B, C, D, E and so on, also according to the credit ratings of the borrowers. Finally, in 2009 it was also in the supervisory board of New Credit Bank Maribor, where the supervisors of this claim had to review and review how much this bank claims to individual companies, to individual banks and so on and so on. So it's a matter of not knowing – I think she should know by now. What maps? I agree with Mrs. Bratuškov, I sign all the folders, I have no problems. All folders from first to last, if you want to take a look at them and, if you want, should be made public. No problem to make one or the other folders – from Grep to Zvon, to SCT, to Vegrad, all those whose companies are in bankruptcy today. I'll sign it right now! 5 billion – this is some sort of insinuation that is completely fictitious today. The law will work by turning bad claims into bad banks, and these bad claims will eventually start, in fact, in the first year — so something will happen. How long is it gonna take? I think that the longer we delay and start doing this later, the less it will happen – because if we did, in 2009, the value of these properties, which are held by banks today, these apartments and so on, would then be much larger or at least something larger than today. The value of those companies was also higher than today. If we delay another six months or another year, the value will be even lower. This is the direction of development, this is the trend. That is why I think that even if you can say some books here and so on – I am glad that you are reading and that you are learning and that you will also have to do something about monetary policy and what monetary policy actually means. But I'm glad you're reading and learning. These are the reasons — for which I think there are no dilemmas or dilemmas explained — for which this law should enter into force and, above all, be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. The time we live is not exactly pleasant to this country and to its inhabitants. Part of this, these difficult situations, have also resulted from a misjudgment of priorities that should be addressed first, even in the previous mandate. The former Prime Minister of the Government said that when they had responsibility and led the government, they had misjudged what the priorities were. The government was misdirected, and he also said that part of this responsibility took over. Already in 2009, 2010, 2011, we should take action in the banking area. As soon as funding problems arose, when banks were no longer able to respond to their needs, then the government should react and act. It happened that the economy could not even reproduce the loans easily. Not even until a simple reproduction. In fact, even the fact that it had already occurred that an inverse process had arisen, that is to say, banks had decreased their credit volume and were taking capital out of the economy. This has caused a number of problems in the functioning of companies. This has triggered chain-of-payment indiscipline, incompetence and even a number of companies, and a good business company has also failed to do so. We're in a situation where some month ago, some sort of leverage came from the sale of bonds. As explained by the Minister, what was sold on the American market will be sufficient until January, February, perhaps by March. We have received a statement, on the basis of confidence, that we will take certain measures. We are also in a situation where all these key things should be taken up by some relatively fast procedure, in agreement with all those who are working in this National Assembly or with the consent of a large majority, if not individuals, but at least of the parliamentary groups. However, all these key projects are being blocked. There are diametrically opposite solutions, diametrically opposite views and a minority insists on, in fact, unconsciously with these solutions. They're legitimate, I don't deny them. However, in this country it takes over or the coalition has the highest responsibility, and in these key decisions it may sometimes be necessary to 'count the garmin', meaning to adapt and follow the solutions that have been submitted. The solutions that we are proposing are not contrary to any policy of any institution – not the European Commission, not the OECD, not anything. In short, they are within the framework and context envisaged for these matters. If we want to reach a new potential in February, because we are obviously alone from our sources and with our potentials we are not able to ensure the functioning of public institutions, states, public institutions and so on, we will have to find resources again on the global market. There we can get, we will get, if we just show and take some necessary steps. Even with this bank, we have been dealing with one or another option even this afternoon. It is said: either recapitalisation without anything moving from the bank, that bad claims withdraw from it, or with a solution, as we suggest. We have suggested that a tumor be cut out of the banking system – what is bad in this banking system, what is sick in this banking system – and we suggest that we deal with and add, if necessary, to the healthy work so that it can also trigger the economic work, and we treat this unhealthy part separately. I think that this solution is not bad, that it is good, that it is transparent, that banks do not deal with everything from A to Z, which until now they have not been able to save, could not fix, could not manage, and that we separately drive a system that will be able to follow the needs of the economy, including recapitalisation, and a separate second part, which will be managed so that it can sell, can be rehabilitated, can be recapitalised and so on. In short, things are open. Unfortunately, given the arrangements we have, we can't adopt the law in variants. We need to propose a clean solution and, in view of all these judgements that have been made in the light of history, given the practice that has so far shown us that the cost-effective recapitalisation solutions are not good, we propose a step to the other side to do this in a different way. I think that this is the right decision, that it is also a perfectly reasonable decision. It is clear that this closed banking cycle, even if we put a billion euros back into this system, will do absolutely nothing in this area – this will be a period of time in this banking system, will continue, will be used for such and other purposes, a basic purpose, and this will be the creation of the potential to finance the economy, and thus will not be achieved. Nothing to conclude either, because if anything could be found out, this would now be established, and a number of procedures would already be initiated. Not only are we waiting for the regulator, but the banks also know who the signatories were, have adopted certain bad arrangements, certain bad solutions, and have not acted against them. Bank management should act against employees, against the structure, against professional people — those who controlled these processes. If bank management has not done so, it should act against those who have had licences – the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. None of this happened, none of this, and that's why we came into the situation we're in. There was a lot of evidence about individual matters, including the obvious that nothing was taken into account. In this package we have two laws, the Slovenian State Holding Act and the law on the so-called bad bank. Much has been taken into account in the Slovenian State Holding Act. It was considered that a bad bank was being excluded from the holding company. It has been taken into account that the Capital Society remains a separate legal entity within the framework of SDH; that the Blue Insurance Company remains a subsidiary of the Capital Society; that the Compulsory Pension Fund remains in a capital company; that the proposal for the withdrawal of members of the Supervisory Board may be made by all applicants and not only by the Government; that the election of members of the Supervisory Board shall be voted upon individually and that an absolute majority is required; that the law should include an anti-corruption clause; that the Law on Slovenian State Holding should be incorporated into the NEK; that the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board of KAD may be elected on the proposal of the Organisation of Pensioners at State level and so on. Twenty more measures, twenty proposals that have been taken into account, either that they have been proposed by opposition groups, either by the public concerned or that they have been added to the debate. Nevertheless, we have come to terms with the fact that the Group of Members, with a few additions, has submitted a request for a referendum. Therefore, taking into account the opposition's proposals, the professional public, other participants in this process, is not a guarantee that this would not be required. It is true, however, that in the case of the law on the so-called bad bank, it was not possible to take into account the solutions, the proposals of others, because the matter went in the diametric direction opposite. A Member's request for a legislative referendum has also been tabled there. In fact, we have witnessed even some very interesting situation when it was found that one of the candidates for the referendum did not meet the conditions – this was at the stage when it was found that there were not enough signatures. A reserve brigade in the National Assembly was activated, that is to say the Positive Slovenia Group, which immediately began collecting signatures. This is a matter that says a lot about political connections, which says that it was orchestrated in full and that it was played with a fig in its pocket, in both cases. The arguments made by representatives of certain parliamentary groups that their proposals have not been taken into account and that they should therefore submit signatures or a request for a referendum cannot be maintained. Even when the proposals proposed by the opposition were as opposed as possible, the same has happened with the signatures of those who criticise that we do not respect anything. There are also many words — I can say — of the potential cost of the solution that we have proposed. I wonder how much the potential cost of the solution you've proposed would be. Not one has said a single issue in this debate today – not one! Nor did anyone say by which methodology he calculated that the arrangement you are proposing by recapitalisation would be cheaper than what we are proposing. Nor did anyone say by which methodology this figure of EUR 5 billion for the regulation we are proposing. Unfortunately, it is no different – I think it is a domestic, kitchen calculation, just to make an optically strong difference and to establish arguments for discrediting a solution. I think that if you already have – in the so-called professional public of the parliamentary group on the other hand – strong, professional people, then you would divide at least the calculation based on the methodology so that others could make a comparison of whether these calculations hold or not. On the basis of oral interpretations by any fellow Member of any parliamentary group, it is not possible to assess whether such data are reliable and correct. We have also witnessed many statements, vehement statements in the previous term, but in the opposite direction. Thus, many of you have come to this mandate from the previous term, and you have also had diametrically opposite discussions, in fact in identical matters. Perhaps it would be good if someone looked into their own discussion, such as when you made a request for a constitutional review of a request for a Family Code or for a Spiz 2 — the same — from the same person! There are some of you here who, in fact, defended from a diametrically opposite position what you made as a request for constitutional judgement to the Constitutional Court. Perhaps it would be good to look at the argument at times, but perhaps some emotional outflow in this mandate would be different — not to be so arrogant, so harshly opposed to those who propose some similar procedures to which we are entitled and who we consider to be justified. Now, if we fail in our proposal with our arguments to convince the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will in one way or another decide and allow a referendum. But if the arguments are good, if they are attracted to the Constitutional Court, then what I think would be best for the country. It means that we release the procedures for the enforcement of both laws, that we start working on the rehabilitation of the banking system, that we start in another more quality, more appropriate way to manage state property. In both areas, we have terrible deficits. There is nothing to help us if we have national silver, both in the field of banks and in the field of companies, if we cannot manage it and if we do not get any returns from this title. What helps us in important companies if the annual recapitalisation we have to give to make this system work is fifteen times what we get as a dividend. No owner, no private, no state, can handle it. The same applies to banks. Permanently pouring money into the banking system and spending it without anyone responsible for anything is irresponsible. I think it is necessary to make moves if we are to continue to ensure the functioning of the state infrastructure if we want the state subsystems to work or leave it the way it was and spill the ashes. Things will go on. A backlog, when we don't do anything, it'll just get bigger and deeper. I think it is necessary to reach a decision to give the said law, including the referendum initiative, at the discretion of the Constitutional Court and to decide whether this proposal is justified or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I note that the amendments to the updated proposal for a decision have not been tabled. I hereby conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision and, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 73, allocate 10 minutes before the vote. We'll meet again at 17.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u147	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We will vote on the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement or rejection of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in the referendum. Please check the functioning of the voting apparatus before we vote and may proceed to the vote. So, we are voting on the proposal for a decision – more explanations for the vote. First of all, who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Nobody? Mag. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u148	Thank you. Today, we have already said that the referendum is a constitutional right and it is also a constitutional right to check whether the possible rejection of the law in the referendum would result in unconstitutional consequences. But everything else you do around this and another referendum is scandal and shame for Slovenia and for everyone in the coalition. Today you silenced us here in the National Assembly or wanted to silence us when the chairman did not allow the replica, but it is also clearly becoming your practice. This marriage is certainly a bad solution and I ask you not to deceive people that the only possible solution is. It is a solution in which you insist, and there are, of course, alternatives — although it is true that you never wanted to face these alternatives or check them and put them on the table. Now, once again, clearly and loudly, reveal all data immediately, now! Don't sell people fog so that the article you wrote down in this law reveals business secrets backwards. What's worse is that it prolongs out-of-date hands – this goes on, for all old credits, of course, it doesn't apply, and don't deceive people. Once again, put everything on the table immediately, post – but all! You will not selectively choose what you want to show yourself, but you will find it appropriate to keep it hidden, but it will remain hidden. Take into account the IMF recommendations, which say that everything needs to be clearly defined in advance – which is not in the law – and that this institution should not be subject to political interests, in your case it will certainly be. People have made up their minds to demand this referendum. That's what you're trying to prevent them from going to all sorts of places; from losing your signatures, from checking ours, from even trying to direct the work of the police. We are talking about 5 billion taxpayers' money and people have the right to decide whether they are for a cheaper solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u149	Good. Before the vote, Mr Borut Pahor also wanted to explain his vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I will not object to the decision on the constitutionality of the law, but not because I would think that this concept of bank resolution is good, but because the consequences of rejecting this law would be much, much worse – in a financial, economic, social and political sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u151	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. More? Okay, then I'll open the application, although you've been discussing for almost six hours now – take this into account, please. But I'm opening a statement to explain my vote. All right, three reported. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote in favour of the decision that this law will send to the Constitutional Court in order for the Constitutional Court to also examine the law in terms of the consequences that would have occurred — in particular the unconstitutional consequences — if this law actually started to work. This law has alternatives that have already been used in Slovenia – some have been successful; when we talked about the 1990s when we rescued banks, especially the New Ljubljana Bank and when the Bank Recovery Agency actually came to the rescue of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. I think that on the same path, or a better path, the banking system will be repaired this time as well. With regard to the data itself and when to become public or not, I once again support Mrs Bratušek's proposal – I have already heard it, and unfortunately she has not heard me – and I fully agree that all the data will be disclosed and there is no problem here. I'm just sorry to have to say it now because you weren't in the hall before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u153	Mr. Richard Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u154	Thank you, President. I will vote in favour of this decision, and it is difficult for me to imagine that anyone in this Chamber against such a decision, so that the Constitutional Court, which is first and only called on to assess constitutionality, will decide whether such a referendum is constitutionally permissible. We're talking bank resolution, and banks are constitutional. They affect the legal and social state, affect the sovereignty of that country, affect the economic initiative and affect property as the fundamental right of that country. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u155	More mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Of course, I do not object to the proposal for constitutional review. However, I do not think that it is necessary for an efficient, efficient, cost-effective management of state assets and state-owned enterprises to withdraw from these companies, but rather the need for policy to withdraw from these companies – this is essential. With this law, of course, politics does not withdraw from these companies, and my view of this law is as it is, for the following reasons: I have shown already the ownership certificates that were awarded in 1993 – that is when the devastation of the Slovenian state began, now continues and that is not right. I believe that such plebiscite laws should be adopted with a significantly larger majority than with the general majority, and that a new social agreement is, of course, needed to derogate from existing practice in relation to the state, the economy, the citizens. Only when we achieve this are we on the way out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-23-SDZ6-Izredna-21.ana.u157	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the request of the National Assembly will be forwarded to the Constitutional Court, which must decide within 30 days. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and a nice hello.
