ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the 9th regular session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Matevž Frangež, only Bevk from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m., Happy Meh and Mag. Leila Hercegovac by 1:00. Nicely greeted. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, it's a second defensive bill on electronic communications. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. We have already held a general debate on the bill at the 8th session. First, I give the floor to further explain the bill to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u2	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Since a general debate has already been held on the proposal for this law, I would like to point out in the introduction only what I consider to be the most necessary. The aim and purpose of the bill is to transpose the amended provisions of the European regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Ministry, we held a broad public debate on the content of the bill at various stages of the procedure, many, often opposed to each other's comments by different stakeholders, to the greatest extent possible, of course within the framework of the restrictions arising from the directives and public interest. The new law will create a renewed regulatory environment for operators, comparable to the environment in other countries of the European Union. This will improve the competitiveness of operators and encourage a new investment cycle, improve existing solutions for easier and faster development of broadband networks. The bill introduces solutions aimed at improving joint construction and the use of communication infrastructure. Better management and easier access to the radio spectrum by reducing administrative barriers, strengthening the protection of consumer and user rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs. The bill also introduces the principle of internet neutrality in favour of users. The protection of the privacy and personal data of end-users is also being increased, i.e. when using cookies or cookies. All of these will strengthen confidence and thus increase the use of electronic communications and information technologies. In this context, the powers of the national regulatory authority, which will be named after the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, have therefore been increased so far by the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications or APEC. On 3 December 2012, the draft law was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the light of the substantive same amendment to Article 166, the opposition has also adopted amendments to this article by the coalition and the opposition. The amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 155 was also adopted. The Government considers that the legislative proposal adopted has been improved in the light of the legislative and legal services' comments. Following the Committee's meeting and the preparation of its report, amendments were tabled as far as 54th, 57th and 203th Articles. We are already explaining that the Government of the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups supports Articles 54 and 57 of the proposal. However, the SD Group's amendments to Articles 54 and 203 of the proposal expressly opposes, but I must say that the Government's decision or proposal on Article 54 approaches or goes in the direction proposed by the SD as well, but maintains some balance. At this point, I reiterate that any further delay in the adoption and enforcement of this Act may constitute a significant damage to the State budget against the Republic of Slovenia, namely due to the incomplete transposition of the Directives. In the field of electronic communications, judicial proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union are already under way with the proposed daily penalty of 13 000 63.68 euros, provided that the legislation is not adopted before the judgment is delivered. In the event that the National Assembly adopts amendments to the amended proposal for this Act, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now propose that the National Assembly also carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent working body, so I give the word mag. Branku Grims, chairman of the committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, also on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which, at its 15th urgent meeting on 3 December 2012, addressed the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In view of the extensive comments made by the Legal Service, the Committee then adopted some 80 amendments and legally aligned the text with the requirements of the Legislative and Legal Service. In addition, these amendments have also deleted certain provisions which have been the subject of public controversy regarding the protection of human rights on the Internet. The biggest debate was with regard to amendments affecting decisions and warnings regarding the expiry of deadlines for the re-application of a frequency request and then the possibility of giving warnings in different ways to individual owners or users of those frequencies that decisions should be re- tabled in order to avoid difficult or even irreparable consequences. In this regard, two amendments have now been tabled subsequently and this part is likely to be fully regulated. On the other hand, a relatively high consensus was reached. Finally, the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth endorsed the text and proposed it to the National Assembly for admission with a warning that in this case it is necessary to speed up in order to avoid harmful consequences for Slovenia, since the next phase of the European Union is that there will be a daily compensation for Slovenia, which we know can be very high. In this case, the text of the law is appropriate. It is possible to complete it now and, on behalf of the Committee, I also propose that we speed up the procedure as quickly as possible. Thank you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you. Since we have held a general debate at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups today and we are moving on to a debate on the articles to which the amendments are tabled. We will discuss these amendments on the basis of the proposal of the amendments tabled on 14 December. I am putting to the debate first Article 54 and the two amendments to this Article. One is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors and the other is the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this Article and put to the debate Article 57 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. There's no desire to discuss it. Article 203 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to this Article. He's not in the mood for a debate either. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timetable tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 8. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public cantonment and survival of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Since we have been extremely quick, the Minister and Secretary of State is not yet with us, I will give the floor to Mrs Alenka Jeraj as chairman of the committee. She's not either. Nothing, unless it's different, we're moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. First of all, the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have already supported the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia on the home working body of the Member and Members of Positive Slovenia. This is a new law that follows the principles of sustainability of public finances, the economic use of public funds, efficiency, proportionality and transparency. This provides for the association of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to encourage employment of persons with disabilities with the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It was established by the Act establishing the Fund for the Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in order to promote the development of employment and employment of persons with disabilities. It shall, however, decide on the rights and obligations of persons with disabilities and employers in accordance with the powers it has under the aforementioned law. This time, adequate integration into a single public fund reduces operating costs and reduces public financial expenditure. The aim of the association is to transform the two public funds within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs. However, due to related work processes, the work is expected to be optimised and the best practices of one fund can be transferred to the joint body. While the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out a clearer definition of the work area of the Fund in promoting the employment of persons with disabilities, the original proposal did not define the type and scope of rights to be guaranteed from the Fund's resources and the procedures and deadlines for their enforcement, which was remedied by the relevant amendments. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will therefore support the amendment of the law and thus enable the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to function more rationally and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj should be presented, which is not in the Chamber, so we are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u8	Good day and good bye! The social democrats will be supported by the law before us. On the basis of this, the Fund for the Incentivisation of the Employment of Persons with Disabilities will be merged into the Public Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows from the content of the proposal that the amendment relates mainly to the technical organisational aspects of the reorganisation of the two institutions, which are under the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and does not prejudice the scope of the rights guaranteed under the Funds. In view of the integration of the two funds into the joint body, the Social Democrats are expected to ensure, to an unlimited extent, the rights which belong to both the worker and to children in the case of the payment of subsistence allowances and the extent of the rights and obligations of disabled persons and employers as set out in the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act and the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities Act. As we say, we will uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u9	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u10	Your Honor! According to the proposed law, the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall join the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to encourage the employment of persons with disabilities. The proposed regulation fully preserves the scope of the rights which belong to workers in the event of insolvency of the employer and to children in the event of non-payment of subsistence allowances. There is no change in the scope of the rights and obligations of disabled persons and employers. The law brings about the rationalisation of public sector operations, i.e. the merger of offices, agencies and the like. This will also reduce the operating costs of both funds and thus reduce public financial expenditure. The aim of the merger is the substantive organisational transformation of the two public funds under the responsibility of the same Ministry, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Thanks to related work processes, we can expect work not only to be valued but also to be optimised. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette supports the transformation of two public funds into one, thereby reducing public expenditure and improving the rationalisation of the public sector. Therefore, we will also support the proposal for a law on the guarantee and maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support changes to the law and also amendments to the coalition to the bill. By pooling the funds into the Public Guarantee and Maintenance and Disability Fund, we follow the principle of sustainability of public finances and the economic use of public funds and efficiency and better transparency. This, of course, seems to me to be the most important principle. It is also important to ensure that the amendments and additions do not affect the content of the rights themselves in areas supported by these two former funds. It is also important that the right to pay from the Guarantee Fund remains unchanged for all workers who have ceased their employment for any reason, for several reasons not to list them, because it is clear from the law itself. It is also ensured that more efficient organisation and the introduction of a quota system for the employment of persons with disabilities will also increase the reliability of action in the field of employment of persons with disabilities, which we particularly support in the Group of Members. In the parliamentary group, we would certainly like to see the recovery of the funds recovered from the dependents in the recovery process more transparently and better. According to the data we have, this percentage is less than 30% of the recovery from maintenance debtors in the past year, which, according to our estimate, is certainly too low a percentage. For all the reasons provided in this amendment of the law, we will support the amendment and amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u13	On behalf of the DeSUS mag Group. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All of you, welcome! The proposal for this novel foresees the transformation of the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund in a way that will be attached to it by the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to encourage the employment of persons with disabilities. We take the reasons for this in the DeSUS Group as fully justified, as it is a matter of rationalising the public sector. By pooling funds into one, we gain effective and sustainable use of public funds and pooling funds will also contribute to more rational human and technical work processes. The pooling of all three areas covered by the Fund's content is also possible and justified because the procedures in all three substantive areas of work of the two Funds are the same. It is the recognition and payment of the rights and recovery of the debtors for payment. In particular, it should be pointed out that the addition of the Disabled Fund to the Maintenance Fund does not result in the loss of the identity of the first. It is without prejudice to the content of the rights already granted to the users of these funds. Security of employment of all employees in the Disabled Fund is also ensured, as they will be taken over by a new fund, which will be named after the Public Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The DeSUS Group supports the new organisational arrangements provided by this law for the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund and the Disability Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u15	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities play an important role in solving the difficult material situation of more vulnerable groups of citizens. The first guarantees the rights of workers who have lost their jobs due to the insolvency of the employer and the right of children in the event of non-payment of maintenance by their parents, i.e. to provide maintenance compensation. This enables greater social security for people who find themselves under more difficult living conditions. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for encouraging the employment of persons with disabilities to promote development, employment of persons with disabilities and the employment of persons with disabilities. In New Slovenia, we believe that the reorganisation of the state administration is one of the key contributions to increasing the efficiency of public administration. Thus, we have committed to working with coalition partners to adopt solutions to reduce the number of employees and thus the cost of working in the state administration and the public sector at state level. The proposed law ensures rational organisation of work and simplification of public administration procedures and processes in order to reduce the number of public sector entities. The addition of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to encourage employment of persons with disabilities to the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is also expected to have a positive impact on public funds, as well as synergies in substantively similar processes. The proposed regulation fully preserves the scope of the rights belonging to workers in the event of insolvency of the employer, to children in the event of non-payment of subsistence allowances and to disabled persons, which is why Members of New Slovenia will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF REJECTIONAL ACTIVITY The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Since we are very fast today, the representatives of the government are not yet among us, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Jeraj, President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, who is as the working body of the mother Procedural, Mr Matjaž Han. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u18	I think that since the government isn't here, it would have to wait for the government. It's an important marriage and it's only right that we get the government's position. And if it's 10 minutes to get from the Ministry to this National Assembly, it shouldn't be a problem. Since we've saved so much, we shouldn't have stopped for 10 minutes if we stopped the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u19	Yeah, I don't have a problem with that. If you agree with the others, I interrupt the meeting until – I apologize, colleague Alenka Jeraj – I interrupt the meeting until 10.40 and we will call the minister or we will call him. We're back to 10.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u20	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. We continue to end the 19th item of the agenda, this is second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the rearing activity. Now there are representatives of the government among us. I give the floor to Mrs Patricia Chular, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Apologize first for this delay and for the necessary interruption. We are, therefore, presenting the amendment to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities, which we are amending the law that was adopted in 2002. Thus, after ten years of practice, we propose certain substantive changes based on the implementation of the law, which may not be of the most importance, but certainly in substance – a change in the term "rejuvenee" to the term "child". The new law provides for the possibility of an exceptional authorisation to carry out the parental activity of a person who has not run under the prescribed procedure and who is not a child’s relative, solely in the light of the specific circumstances which primarily follow the needs of the child. Furthermore, the novelty proposes a new condition that a foster parent may not be a person who has been convicted of a premeditated crime which is pursued by an official duty or by a person living with such a person. It is also more precisely defined the conditions for the withdrawal or withdrawal of a permit when the Centre for Social Work finds that a person is no longer fit to carry out a foster activity. Complementary provisions on the standardisation of the implementation of fostering activities as a profession are being supplemented. The provisions on the basic duties of persons carrying out fostering activities are being circulated mutatis mutandis. However, the number of hours of compulsory training is increasing in the field of training for caregivers. The novela limits the length of the stay of persons in foster care, up to the twenty-sixth year of age. However, in order to facilitate the implementation of fostering activities, changes are proposed with regard to the termination of the foster contract for reasons of termination and divorce. These are the novel's proposals, but we also suggest that you do a third reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you. The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and is now in fact Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 8th session. 12. 2012 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the fostering activity submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the Government. The representative of the applicant, State Secretary Patricia Chular, said in her opening statement that the basic principle of the proposal for the amendment of the law is to carry out quality care activities by pursuing the greatest benefit of the child in need of such accommodation. Only by ensuring the appropriate continuing competence of the foster parents, by providing adequate financial resources and appropriate implementing powers can quality care be achieved with the aim of providing the child and his/her needs with the most appropriate treatment. The proposed amendment proposes a change to the term'rejuvenee' with the term 'child'. The conditions for obtaining authorisation to carry out a foster activity shall be specified more precisely. A new condition has been added that a foster parent may not be a person who has been legally convicted of an alleged offence which is pursued by an official duty or by a person living with such a person. The conditions for granting an emergency authorisation and the conditions for withdrawing or withdrawing an authorisation are also laid down. In addition, the provisions on standardisation in the implementation of fostering activities as a profession are being supplemented and the provisions on the basic duties of the person carrying out the fostering activity are being made meaningfully. In the field of education of caregivers, the number of hours of compulsory training is increasing and it adds the possibility for a person to choose his or her own content from another operator associated with the implementation of child-specific care. The proposal also limits the length of the child’s stay in the foster family to 26 years, even in cases where he remains in the foster family for a period of 12 years due to physical and mental disorders. After this age, a second form of protection must be provided to the person. With a view to further facilitating the implementation of fostering activities, it is also proposed that an amendment should be made to the termination of the foster contract on the grounds of cancellation and divorce and certain livestock content. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and said that they had made comments of a general nature on the internal compatibility of the law, comments on individual solutions in the substantive part of the law and comments on the transitional provisions, which were particularly important in the case of changes in the content of a particular part of the institution. With the amendments tabled, it was found that the comments and proposals formulated by their service were taken into account. Those comments relating to the articles of the law which could not be taken into account due to business restrictions will be taken into account by the applicant in the future. The Committee has adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and, pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, has also adopted the amendment of the Committee to Article 5, which provides that a foster parent may not be a person deprived of his parental right, his business ability or his or her life with a person deprived of his or her parental right. This is complemented by an additional condition, namely that a foster parent may not be a person who has been convicted of an alleged criminal offence which is prosecuted for an official duty or who lives with such a person. Such restrictions should be extended and this Article has also been amended, by granting the authorisation to carry out the parental activity only to persons who, in addition to the relevant motives and other circumstances, have a positive impact on the performance of the parental activity, including the relevant personal competence. In addition, it was accepted that all offences against life and the body, including those not prosecuted under official duties, should be included in the prohibition of the guardianship of a person who has been or has been convicted of such an offence. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and we propose that it be adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, Mrs Irena Tavčar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Caring is one of the most humane activities in which a family adopts a child whose biological parents cannot properly care for. All these families need to be given recognition and thanks, for these children, in addition to their own, offer security, love, health care and everything else that is in their favor. Currently, we have 772 persons in the Republic of Slovenia who are authorised to carry out the breeding activity, 120 of whom carry out this activity as a profession. A total of 1,088 children were placed in foster families. The law governing this area was adopted ten years ago in the National Assembly. At that time, experience has shown that something needs to be changed or added. Last January, a working group was established to this end, in addition to representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, also foster parents, representatives of social work centres, the Faculty of Social Work, the Institute of Economic Research and some NGOs. They have prepared solutions that follow the basic principles of the bill's proposal, which relate to the quality implementation of fostering activities for the greatest benefit of the child who also needs such accommodation. The appropriate competence of breeders, adequate financial resources, additional powers and a more precise definition of regulation of financial matters should be ensured. The bill pursues the aim of offering the child and his needs the best possible treatment, and we support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, and we also support the amendment to the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u26	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u27	Hello again! The area of fostering in Slovenia is systematically regulated by two laws, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and the Act on the implementation of fostering activities. To begin with, I should like to say that the previous government has planned a thorough overhaul of the parenting activities. First, with the provisions introduced in the Family Code, this should also be followed by a recast of the whole area of fostering. Due to the collapse of the Family Law at the referendum and the early elections, none of this has happened, so of course this task will have to be carried out by the current government. The law in force on the implementation of fostering activities has been implemented since 2003, and the content of the law is essentially governed by the following areas, the conditions to be met by the person wishing to carry out the parenting activity. The procedure for obtaining the authorisation to carry out the breeding activity lays down the rules, defines the duties of breeders and the tasks of social work centres in the implementation of the breeding activity and regulates its financing. After almost ten years of implementation, changes and improvements in the field of parenting are certainly necessary, as they have shown shortcomings in practice on the basis of changes in implementation, which is understandable in view of the changing dynamics and development of society. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the amendment of the Law on the implementation of fostering activities, which is today under consideration, is prepared on the basis of the relevant professional backgrounds and with the cooperation of professionals and users – foster workers, professional workers at social work centres and representatives of non-governmental organisations. We could even say that this law, which touches an area, represents a model model of how laws are to be made in our country. The Law contains both editorial and substantive changes and additions. The conceptual movement of the institution of foster care is already a terminological replacement of the term "rejuventor" with the term "child", which at the symbolic level underlines the care of the child. Important content updates also refer to a more systematic regulation of the conditions for the performance of fostering activities, the introduction of more frequent education and training of breeders, the increase in standards for the implementation of this activity than the profession. An important novelty in the novel is also the strengthening of some forms of caring for the baby in foster care. In order to facilitate the performance of the tasks or responsibilities of the foster parent and the inclusion of the child in the foster family, decisions shall also be made on matters relating to the child’s daily life, such as price insight, school achievement awareness, the choice of a personal physician, information on the child’s health, representation of the child in the process of issuing a identity card and so on. The consideration of the proposed amendment to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has shown that in all the parliamentary groups we are aware that a thorough overhaul is needed, as no one has opposed the amendment of the law. The amendments have further improved the content of the law. The Social Democrats will be supported by the amendment of the Law on the implementation of fostering activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u28	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u29	Your Honor! The basic law on the implementation of fostering activities was adopted 10 years ago. The purpose of the law was to ensure the quality of the care activities through system regulation. However, during the 10-year period, some shortcomings have been identified, which have required both substantive changes and additions to the system of implementation of fostering activities. The content changes in the law are thus a change in the term "rejuvenee" in the term "child" because both the child and the person are placed at the forefront. More specifically and systematically, certain issues relating to the implementation of the breeding activity are addressed by specifying the conditions for obtaining the authorisation and by extending the provisions relating to the basic duties of the breeder more precisely. The possibility of an emergency authorisation for the exercise of a parental activity shall be introduced to a person who has not run under a prescribed procedure and who is not a child’s relative in certain specific circumstances. A new condition has been added that a foster parent cannot be a person who has been legally convicted. This Article is subject to an amendment which further extends these restrictions. The law specifies a condition for the withdrawal or withdrawal of a permit. Complementary provisions on the standardisation of the implementation of fostering activities as a profession are being supplemented. Provisions relating to the basic duties of the person carrying out the fostering activity shall be circulated mutatis mutandis. In the field of training for caregivers, the number of hours of compulsory training is increasing. The length of stay of the person in foster care shall be limited to 26 years. In order to facilitate the implementation of fostering activities, amendments are proposed with regard to the termination of the foster contract for reasons of termination and divorce. The content of the farm is changed by introducing an additional one-time allowance at the time of placement of the child and eliminating the possibility of raising the amount of material costs due to the reason for the installation of the child, which is not particularly limited under the current regime. Since the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Nursing Activities solves major problems or issues in this area, and since such parenting activities will be carried out in a qualitative manner, following the greatest benefit of the child in need of such accommodation, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u30	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities, which have, of course, been made on the basis of findings at the time of implementation or implementation of this 2003 Act. As then, many debates and dilemmas have taken place in the interim and this time in the preparation of the amendments, but I am confident on behalf of the Group of Members that these dilemmas have been largely eliminated and that the changes in the law that are prepared are a good basis for carrying out this extremely important activity. The concept of the implementation of fostering activities certainly requires precise regulatory arrangements and supervision of implementation with the primary aim of protecting the benefit of children and, at the same time, of course, of the duties and rights of foster parents. We also support the solution in the parliamentary group that, in view of the needs identified in individual cases, social work centres can also set up individual aids, financial assistance for the placement of children. We also support some urgent changes that will facilitate the implementation of fostering activities and the care of foster parents for children. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also support the amendment of three parliamentary groups, by which we add, of course, in addition to all the exclusion conditions already in the existing law, the conditions that no one can become a foster child if he has been legally convicted of an alleged crime that is prosecuted for official duty or because of a crime against life and sexual inviolability or if he lives with such a person. From all the above, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS mag Group. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice to meet you again! This is the first novel of the Law on the implementation of fostering after its adoption in 2002. The solutions to this novel were based on the identified shortcomings in the arrangements that have been shown in practice. The working group, including foster parents and social work centres, who are most involved in the issue of fostering and well-known for the grey foxes in the legislation, has prepared changes in this area. For these changes and additions to the law, we have assessed in the DeSUS Group that they follow the need to ensure a quality and safe living environment for the child, when or for any reason the parents cannot provide it. Of all the corrections brought by this novel, it seems to us that the most important change is with regard to stricter conditions or competences to be fulfilled by the foster father or the person with whom the foster father lives in order to protect, raise and care for the child entrusted to him in foster care. In any event, such a child, who is already more sensitive and at risk, is disturbed to live in a perfectly healthy environment. This means that this environment must not be burdened with presumptive crimes pursued under official duty and crimes against life and the body, and against sexual inviolability which are otherwise prosecuted on a proposal. We very much welcome the increase in material costs and the introduction of a one-time allowance when the child is first placed. The news is also foreseen in the field of foster education, which we estimate will make an important contribution to the quality of the implementation of fostering activities, as the breeder will adapt the content of education to the specific situation and needs of the child. Exceptionally, a particular person or family may also be allowed to do so if the child is not authorised to carry out the parenting activity or is not a relative of the child to accommodate the child. It's an environment the child knows and trusts. For the benefit of the child, it will be possible for the social work centre to decide on this subject on the basis of the findings of professional services such as kindergartens, schools, health care, with a view to ensuring an acceptable environment for the child and the protection and education of the child. Since the proposed amendments and additions represent a quality upgrade to the fostering activity, we will be pleased to support them in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u34	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you. Your Honor! New Slovenia supports the regulation of the field of parental activity provided that changes to the law follow the benefits or needs of children. The proposed amendment proposes a number of measures, including a change in the term'regnant' with the term 'child'. More precisely, the conditions for obtaining authorisation to carry out a parental activity are defined and a new condition is added, namely that the breeder cannot be a person who is legally convicted of an intentional offence pursued under an official obligation or a person living with such a person. The conditions for granting an emergency authorisation and the conditions for withdrawing or withdrawing an authorisation are also laid down. The provisions on standardisation in the implementation of fostering activities as a profession shall also be supplemented and the provisions on the basic duties of the person carrying out the parenting activity shall be made applicable. In the field of education of caregivers, the number of hours of compulsory training is increasing and it adds the possibility for a person to choose his or her own content from another operator associated with the implementation of child-specific care. The proposal of the novel limits the length of stay in the foster family to 26 years of age. In cases where a child remains in a foster family due to physical and mental disorders, a second form of protection should be provided to the person after that age. In order to further facilitate the implementation of fostering activities, amendments are also proposed with regard to the termination of the breeding contract on the grounds of cancellation and divorce and certain livestock content. We must be aware that a child who had to leave home needs a stable family who is willing to accept him as their equivalent. At the same time, the foster family also allows the child to communicate with his biological parents, who are very important in his life. Contacts must be in the child's best interests and carried out in accordance with his or her will. In Novi Slovenija we are happy not to be proud of the operation of the Watchdog Society, under which are united foster parents, foster parents, professional workers and others, whose purpose and importance are close. They teamed up to protect foster parents, foster families and foster care as a special form of child rearing and care. Their aim is to cooperate and positively influence all factors that can help to improve the quality of the parenting activity. In this place, they have all the gratitude and gratitude for their unselfish actions, handing out and taking over for their children. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u36	And also on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The area of fostering in Slovenia is exemplaryly regulated, but some shortcomings have been demonstrated in the implementation of foster care in practice, which call for necessary changes because there is progress in the social understanding of family relations and responsibilities within these relationships, and on the other hand social development and changes also require certain updates in legislation. Undoubtedly, it is an extremely sensitive and important area, and it is ultimately a form of a national strategy for the protection and upbringing of children, those children who, for various circumstances or reasons, cannot live with their parents or parents. Therefore, in the Group of Positive Slovenia we welcome the approach to amending the legislation that has indeed been, I will say, an example of the broad involvement of different actors, both professional and direct operators of the parental activity. In January 2011, a working group was appointed, in addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Interior, also foster parents, representatives of social work centres, the Faculty of Social Work, the Institute of Economic Research, the Community of Centres for Social Work and NGOs. And the solution that we are taking today, I can say, is almost optimal under the circumstances. We want the proposed solutions to achieve the basic principle of the law – the quality of the parental activity by pursuing the greatest benefit of the child in need of such accommodation. That is why, in this place, the appeal to the distinguished Secretary of State, who is with us today, the law is something else, the practice is something else, that will be consistent with the implementation or implementation of the law in practice, and the system of supervision of foster parents, which is the first or most important recommendation of the Council of Europe on foster families, and which is also necessary, given, I will say, some of the experience that has so far emerged in practice in the implementation of this activity. I will not repeat the individual solutions that the law brings, and they have been mentioned before me by both the Secretary of State and my colleague. Perhaps only what we need to consider in the near future and in what future novels are also included in the amendment of the law or legislation, which, according to our assessment, is still a weakness, is that the law does not contain good solutions from the referendum of the fallen Family Code, whose key purpose was indeed to protect the interests of the child. Thus, for example, the amendment of the law does not refer to fostering as a short-term measure, for fostering is a short-term measure limited to three years, which is, after all, the recommendations of those who have experience in foster care. On the other hand, there is also a weakness in the fact that family courts do not decide on the issue of fostering, which is still the decision of social work centres. And the third flaw, which of course is not included in the law, was part of the fallen Family Code in order to speak or include faster, more efficient and more quality processes in the foster care system itself, so that, finally, measures to protect children, such as placement in foster care, could be accelerated. In short, there is still some weakness, but in view of all the positive innovations brought by the novelty of the law – and these innovations are quite something, these novelties are, of course, following the goal of the child's greatest benefit – because of all the positive solutions we will also support in the Positive Slovenia Group the novelty of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the only open article. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timetable tomorrow, and on a proposal from the Government also on the proposal for a law as a whole. This concludes this agenda item. We got ahead of schedule. I am adjourning the session, which we will continue with item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from the Members of Parliament at 3 p.m. And this is the time I want you to make good use of your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u39	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. I welcome the President of the Government, the Minister, the Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 45 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. I'm not gonna tell you the game again because you all know them well. We are moving on to asking questions from the Members. I would just like to say that Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, and Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, have apologized for this point today since 16.30. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by the magician. Majda Potter, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr President, Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The month is at the centre of media reports and online networks of demonstrations and protest meetings. Public perception focused mainly on people's demands and on the reactions of state institutions. The Constitution grants citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia the right to gather and unite. Everyone has the right to freely associate with others. At peaceful gatherings, they may tell the gathering authorities which acts they disagree with or what actions they consider to be deemed to result in their giving up their functions in an objective or subjective manner. The right to freedom of association can only be restricted by law if the security of the State or public security so requires. The law lays down the conditions for the organisation of public meetings and public events, which also regulates the procedure for the prohibition of a public meeting or a public event, as well as the revocation of an authorisation already issued. The statements made by the individual representatives of the executive branch were primarily about the legitimacy and legality of the undeclared meetings and how people should express their opinion, as I say, "in a normal state of law". Individuals have diverted attention from the messages and demands of demonstrations and protests to incidents, and some have sought political motives for both. In particular, following a protest in Maribor on 26 November, the public drew attention to the disproportionate use of coercive means, and the police called on the organisers to report the meetings when new protests were announced and the participants to exercise the right to public gathering peacefully and patiently. The direct task of the mass protests was never to develop political alternatives and programmes but to require the authorities to take decisions in a responsible and broader social consensus that interfere with the deeper structure of society and predict its future. And that's exactly what peaceful demonstrations require. Their main demands are to return to the rule of law and to human dignity. However, the consolidation of the legal and social state can only be carried out by responsible and ethically and morally sound decision-makers who will act for the common good. That is why, Mr President, I ask you: What steps have you already taken since the demonstrations and protests as Prime Minister of the Government and Government, which are still planned and how do you respond to the publicly expressed and repeated demands of the gathered people? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u41	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you so much for asking. With much of what you have read, we can agree, but it is necessary to know what is the competence of an institution under the Slovenian Constitution and what can be done to protect the Constitution as human rights and fundamental political freedoms, which is institutionalized for political actions. As far as the government's resignation is concerned, in every democratic country the right of every citizen, part of civil society, peaceful protesters, anyone to demand the resignation of the government. This has always happened and will happen as long as democracy exists, and it is not only in Slovenia. Another is when it comes to the right to switch governments or executive or legislative authorities. When it comes to the right to replace the government, it is in your hands when it comes to the right to replace the legislative authority that elects the government, that is you, that is in the hands of the electorate and the Slovenian Constitution that specifies exactly how this right is expressed. There are many reasons for this as regards social requirements and expressions of dissatisfaction. Slovenia has been in some kind of shock since 2008. For the first time in the history of the independent state things don't go up, before everything grew, wages, standards, construction, in short, it was always possible, even in the budget, even when we over-indebted, to divide more. Now it's gone. Now there are other times, the money is running out, and we'll have to understand that sooner or later. And once again, as has been done several times before, I repeat that we are not saving here with these measures by the government. This isn't about saving, it's about getting as small a debt as possible. We now see that the policy of saving is wrong. Thank God we can do it, but we can't do it because we're not saving. We are still trying to get as much debt as possible, but at the same time we must return the money we have borrowed in the past. So that any requirement, any loud one in terms of improving the social situation on average or for the majority, can only be realised if I create more, if we are less indebted and if what we invest is better. And in this direction, the government is trying, this is the general response of the government and this team that is here with me today, to this state. But the crisis didn't happen overnight and it won't end overnight. And at the beginning of this term, when I addressed you behind this pay phone, I also made that very clear. We didn't promise anything about how honey and milk would flow. Now, after these discussions at the European Summit at the end of last week, I can tell you that there is great uncertainty in Europe in general and especially in the euro area, when will the end of this new growth decline that has begun. And that I will not be too long and repeat the analysis, the answers from the competent people of the European Central Bank and the European Commission are that the euro area to which we belong can expect slight signs of recovery in the second half of next year. This is also the only forecast I hope to make here, as far as this kind of demand is concerned. As far as the demands for not self-government are concerned, but through a just state, I must say that they cannot be more justified, that this is a strategic problem not only of this country but of these societies. We have warned about it from opposition benches, we also warn from government benches, but these are problems the government alone cannot solve. This is the walnut we all have here before us. This is about changes that need more than a simple majority, and it is about knowing and solving the problem. If we just put the responsibility on each other, we're not going anywhere, and this situation will only radicalize more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u43	Complementary request, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you for this part of the answer, which, however, strengthens me to believe that what I wanted you to hear, I'm afraid you didn't hear it. At least your answer points this way. You have repeated everything you've been saying all year, and then from society, from civil society, you hear different answers from the opposition, which not only go in the direction of saving, which not only force you to enter a golden fiscal rule that does not force you to answer what changes you are predicting – 11 of them – three of these measures go towards reforming the judiciary that you know there is no consensus in the section – re-electing the judicial mandate for those already elected in a permanent term. Civil society and the majority of public opinion also respond to the model of over-distribution of society, with the privatisation of the public sector. All of these are questions that still speak about the structure of society offered by the ruling authority. And this is where we should find consensus, we should talk about it. The fact is, we don't talk about it. It goes through the system: take it or leave it. And the eternal reference to policy unification will never bear fruit if the majority imposes its opinion on the minority. So once again, Mr President, I ask you: What measures do you offer because all of your public appearances in people arouse the belief that they are not heard?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u45	Mr. Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u46	Well, that's the last thing I seriously doubt. If we look at the second round of presidential elections, I think half of the Slovenian voters and voters just heard a message and decided accordingly. And that number was quite significant. I must say that much of what we are monitoring today comes from the frustrations of those who were counting on a different way out. As for one year, honourable Member, this government swore on 10 February this year. We are not here for another year, we are not a half term, we are not a whole year, we are not even a quarter of a term, and you are asking us to do what has not been done in the whole term. Where in Velenj, where I live, we were given a free allowance from your party, where people were asked the question: How do you assess the work of Janša’s government after one year? The magazine was published in October. I have to say, at least count should learn. It's not been another year. A lot of things I've told you before, and I'm not just saying this for one year, I've been saying this for 20 years. And sooner or later, some of this will have to happen, regardless of the fact that the profession is uneven, regardless of the fact that someone always sets a blockade on one side. And I don't know what it would be like for most to blackmail a minority when it comes to the solutions that this coalition can accept with the majority, with the common majority that we have, to take responsibility and to vote matters, we are happy if you support it, but we don't apologize to you if you don't support it. But when it comes to decisions for which this simple majority is not enough when we need a two-thirds majority, I don't know how someone who doesn't have that majority would blackmail someone. It is true that you promised to support the signing of the golden fiscal rule into the constitution at the beginning of the year, and then you ate the word. It is true that you have promised to support the restriction of referendum voting, which is now becoming increasingly difficult to do, even though water is running down our throats to block the budget. And the 11 proposals made by the Slovenian Democratic Party for the deblocking of the political system are no blackmail. That's an offer. We also collect offers from others, and we will see which of these can then be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u47	Procedural proposal, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u48	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. My question about the measures and the responses to the meetings was based on a specific social moment, this is the time of the demonstrations and the protest meetings. The reactions to events in Maribor, Ljubljana and other Slovenian cities were also very different by the institutions of the country. At one point, it even seemed that the army would be the one to intervene if restless crowds were to rise too often over people and over property. But luckily, the last demonstrations limited the rioters, but we don't hide the suspicions that they were planned. Therefore, Mr President, even on the fact that the most responsible meeting was announced two days after the demonstrations or after the Maribor protest meeting, where measures were to be taken in the event of the demonstrations, although it was then said that this was not so much at the highest level of the meeting, and although you did not stand before people as Prime Minister of the Government, it is nevertheless possible to see a number of comments about the conduct among people. We would expect to have some answers about what actually happened and what concerns all these violent groups. That is why I think the answer to this question or the debate on your answer is necessary, because it turns out that you are answering, on the one hand, as the president of the SDS party, but my question is a criterion, however, of what you have to say as Prime Minister of the Government and what the Government has done as a whole and what it intends to do in the future. I think that the opportunities for discussion, if we are really up to creating a consensus society and time, are enough to make some of the proposed measures more acceptable and stronger, and that it is not said that only the Government knows what can be done in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u49	The next question sent to the President of the Government will be posed by a mag. Alenka Bratušek, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u50	Dear President! We talked a lot about our common state property this year when we talked about the Slovenian State Holding. Even then, we did not know the exact number or value of this property, somewhere between 9 billion and 13 billion. That sounds like a lot, actually, it sounds huge. But this is essentially less than our country spends in one year through the state budget, the municipal budget and the ZPIZ and pension fund. In fact, we have very little in common. In the media, we can monitor intensive coalition discussions on whether to sell all of this or keep anything else for future generations. I will not go into your coalition overtures, but it would be good for us to discuss what we will sell as a country and what strategic assets are for us not to close within the coalition, but to discuss this openly and honestly with all of us: coalition and opposition. Together. Dear President, this property is not coalition property. You didn't get it in your possession when you took over the government, but you're obliged to do it for the good of all of us. There was a lot of talk that your visit to the United States this year was to a large extent intended to deal precisely with the sale of our property. That's when you denied it. There's a lot of talk today that you want to sell NLB, NKBM, Telekom, Triglav Insurance, Petrol, HSE. And again, we can ask ourselves what kind of deals you might have already made in America. The sale of our common assets in Slovenia is decided by the National Assembly. We should adopt a strategy. A strategy to determine what strategic investment is for our country and what assets we are prepared to sell or in these times of crisis are also forced to sell. Madam President, of course, we do not yet have this strategy. Can you please tell me: On what basis are you making decisions or even starting a discussion on the sale of our common property? What and what reasons lead you to believe that in addition to banks there is a need to sell companies that make quite a few profits to the state budget? Do we really expect too much in the opposition when we want an open, clear and transparent picture of the sale of our property — our common property?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u51	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'm sure you don't expect too much. The law you blocked provides for the adoption of a strategy on further privatisation and procedures in which the opposition can also be involved through its supervisory bodies. Before the law is enforced, we'll get to what you're asking here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u53	It's a request to supplement the mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u54	Dear President, I believe you know that the current law also foresees the adoption of a strategy – in short, one that is now in force and not just one that will be implemented. According to our assessment, it would be absolutely right to hold this debate together, what and what our assets will be sold for, is the true coalition and opposition. And the current law also requires you to adopt a strategy, as in the case of the Slovenian State Holding Act. What I am asking you today is, in fact, all that remains of our country. If we sold this a few years ago, we wouldn't have anything to talk about today. You've taken the entire state property for yourself and you're talking about how and what within the coalition. I have already said in the summer of the working group where we participated that the strategy for managing state property is one of the key documents in relation to this law. Before we can even begin to discuss sales, we should have a strategy. We don't have one. And once again, it would be right to discuss and agree on what we will do with our property, to discuss between all the parties in Parliament. And if something seems so smart to sell at this point in time, you can think about a slightly longer period of time showing a completely different picture. So, Madam President, once again, I ask you: Why are you talking without a strategy about what needs to be sold in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u55	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u56	Well, I'm afraid there's been some major confusion in recent weeks and days. The coalition doesn't talk about how to write this sales strategy. The coalition is talking about whether or not to modify the coalition contract in some minor part. And I expected the coalition to deal with itself first and then to coordinate with others further. But actually, the same hour that this was first proposed at the meeting, it was already in all the media. The coalition is not talking about whether to sell any bank or any company because it has no jurisdiction over you. These decisions, prepared by the Ministry of Finance, speak only of the possibility of having individual stakes in state-owned enterprises and management, but do not talk about the decision to sell any of these. Also, what you said was that it's not always suitable for sale, it's better, and it's worse times. Of course, there are still opportunities to raise this issue immediately. And it's a double. It's the first time I've ever had a chance to sell. You mentioned my visit to the United States. I wasn't visiting the United States, I was in the territory of the United States, but I was at a meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations where I didn't discuss any business sales. However, I meet a lot of colleagues, especially at European level, but I have never met anyone who would be interested in buying anything from us at this time. Well, I have to say, there's no big deal. And that fear seems very excessive to me. Another issue about options is, until when can we wait for some decisions. Even this claim you made, if we sold what we have today years ago, then we wouldn't have it, and it would have been a great loss. In 2008, when the international invitation to tender was published, I think 440 Euros, and now it is 60. If we were to sell the state stake in Telekom at that time, we could put three such companies on their feet if we were to do this wisely, and several thousand people would be more employed and the country would have more than that. This is about when it's wise to do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u57	Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u58	I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. Not that I am not satisfied, in fact, I did not get an answer to the question why we are talking about sales without a strategy where we would precisely determine which companies are strategically important for the Republic of Slovenia, which they are not, and then we could start selling. But now he's speculating, one way or another, even ministers and high government officials are buying company shares and expecting them to generate profits. I think it is right, dear colleagues and colleagues, for us to hold a debate on this in the National Assembly. We could also use this debate to discuss how to proceed with the preparation of the strategy and how to determine what strategic assets are. It seems very important to me that we discuss this together: coalition and opposition. I am aware that, in all likelihood, we will not be able to achieve this, but I think we owe it to all of us together, Mr President, to our citizens and to our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u59	The next question will be raised by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, Positive Slovenia, to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u60	Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! In the public, media records strongly reflect the employment of close relatives of prominent Slovenian Democratic Party officials, whose common denominator is that they are close relatives of influential government policies and that they are employed in the public sector or in state-owned enterprises. So far, I've been tracking the following kinds of jobs in the media. In the company of Plinovod, owned by Geoplina, which is owned by the state and state-owned companies, you hired your daughter. In the same pipelines they also hired the son of the leader of the SDS Members, Mr Jožet Tank. In these same pipelines they also hired the son of your loyal political companion and the prominent SDS member of Mr Jožet Zagozno. The following case is the state prosecutor's office, which has hired both the son and the daughter of a prominent SDS member and today the senior government official, Mrs Barbara Brezigar. You have also hired the daughter of European Ambassador Maze Kukovich in your cabinet, and she has hired your son's friend in her cabinet in the European Parliament. In the National Assembly, the SDS Group hired the son of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mr Boz Zadalič. However, your former partner recently received a leading position in Dars. I think it's right for the Slovenian public to find out from you personally, so I'm asking you here: Do these media references hold you? All jobseekers, especially young people with no connections and knowledge, would be pleased if the media statement were not true. However, if they do, I urge you to respect or amend the coalition treaty you have named the Treaty of Slovenia. In it, on the other hand, you have written among the fundamental objectives of your government that you will take, quote, "for an effective fight against customerism" and, I quote, "for the withdrawal of the state from the current management of social-owned companies". Please tell me: What measures will the Government take to prevent clienteleism and nepotism in employment and recruitment in public administration and in state-owned enterprises? You, as Head of State, cannot be subject to different criteria than all of us other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I understand that every parent wants to give their children the best possible future. I am also aware that children must not be hostages of their parents' political careers, but in some cases it is unfortunately too coincidental that the three children of the three important politicians of the ruling party are employed in the same state-owned company is the least strange if I use very moderate terminology. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u61	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you, too, for this question, although it is somewhat repeated by your Group of Members. First time. Jobs in cabinets are jobs of personal trust and for a certain period of time. These are not jobs that would burden taxpayers by mandate. I mean, we've already cleared things up once. Another time. The Slovenian Democratic Party has more than 30,000 members. Each of these members who is employed is employed somewhere. Unless you think our members should be unemployed. And secondly, my former partner, who has been a computer engineer for 25 years, has been employed in Dars for ten or nine years. I don't know. It has nothing to do with me. My daughter, who worked in Geoplin, was a great student, I'm proud of her, she was a great student, she was a golden graduate, she got Zois' scholarship, she studied with her at the University of Sweden, and she was at this job, after she applied for a number of other jobs, she didn't get a job night chosen between two or three registered candidates. And that's customerism and corruption for you. Until Sunday, the daughter of the President of the State was employed by your party president, either in the city administration or in the city public office, and was elected among 270 candidates. Probably because she was the best, so it's not customerism. The daughter of former President Kučan was probably employed by the Ministry because she was the best, not because she was the daughter of the president of the country. The other daughter got a million-dollar job at Stožice because she's capable, not because it's written by Kučan. The only thing we can conclude on this issue is that there are double criteria in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u63	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your answer. There's a lot of gold graduates and seniors who don't get a job. What you have mentioned about the employment of the former President's child, I do not approve of any such case and it is wrong to compare yourself with anyone who has violated all these moral and ethical values in this country. If anyone has made a mistake, whether it be one or one of the sixth, left or right, you cannot really say that it was already a practice. For this reason, I ask you, for the sake of all those who wait years and years after their diploma and send from day to day and receive no answer. I ask you on behalf of all those job seekers who have been desperate for so many years and then read in the paper that they get jobs from the president, from this policy, from another policy, from the minister, and from the secretary. Let me just remind you here that when the call was made for your daughter, seven were registered, they were looking for the project manager without any experience or demands. Five days was the time to report, of which seven were registered, no knowledge was required. Very interesting. She's so successful! I'm glad she got a job so that you don't get it wrong, but for all those who wait at home and never wait, and when they give up what you say to them. Don't answer to me, answer those, please explain this case properly if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u65	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u66	I think I explained it earlier. What you read, you know, I wasn't there, I wasn't in this process. But I do know that when my daughter responded to different calls earlier, she had a problem because of her last name. It wasn't the first time she applied for a job, and she didn't get one overnight. Like so many others who graduate and wait for work. So she's no different than the others, Mr. Music. But I have to say, I have a few problems when morals and ethics come out of your mouth. That's what I'm having some trouble with.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u67	Procedurally, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u68	Mr President, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a public debate be held on the response of the President of the Government in the National Assembly, including on morality and ethics, including on everything that is going on. In fact, in this country once, Mr President, fellow Members and Members, we must stop such and other clientistic and non-repressive acts! In this country, if it has happened before, let it stop today. All must be treated equally. Respectable and valued knowledge, not relationships and acquaintances, should not be given to the work and employment of those who have been placed by prominent officials in state companies, not in private companies. Is it a coincidence that three children of three prominent officials get a job in the same state company? No, gentlemen! Mr President, you have entered into a coalition agreement to stick to this. You, all those of you who signed this coalition contract, let's think about it or throw it out. Delete this because you're not actually doing this. But if someone's pushing you, make it clear. What is happening today, Mr President, on the streets, young people from despair come and all politicians are hated by such and different actions. We must not allow this, and it is right that in this national assembly, and I also call here on the President of the State, the new one who is now sitting among us in the parliamentary benches to support all of us to fight together against customerism and nepotism. We have to say the end of this, Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that you've been talking about the previous president, and this job, I don't approve of this, or that, or any case. I'm firmly against it. I'm against this sick politician, I'm against what's been going on in this country for 21, 22 years. We must stop this practice, it is time for change, but for radical changes in Slovenian politics. Let us be honest with ourselves and with those who have chosen us to be here today. To the ones we represent. To all the young people who will show up on our stage looking for a job. We appreciate knowledge, not relationships, corruption, nepotism. This must be eradicated from the Slovenian space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u69	Fourth question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Mr Michael Prevc, Slovenian People's Party, will set it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also doing its best to reverse the negative trend in the economy. Citizens and citizens too are increasingly convinced that the economic crisis has a broader background, that the current financial situation of the country is due to the country's poor response to changes in our environment, systemic errors and reckless indebtedness in at least the last two decades. I am convinced that Slovenians and Slovenians are ready to step back, to give up many things and to give up the price of putting public finances in order, as are people in other countries that are already recording economic growth. However, only on one condition: that we no longer allow the same samples to continue to ensure that those who are or are still exploiting their functions, their positions and links to damage the state, its assets and businesses remain unpunished. Dear Mr. President! The latest protests across the country are, according to the Slovenian People's Party, also a reflection of resentment over inequality, over past abuses, of the fact that the vast majority of citizens are forced to give up for better tomorrow, while the sand in the background remains unpunished and without consequences. They are outraged at the fact that court proceedings against people who are publicly exposed and in positions of responsibility last and last, and most often do not receive an epilogue at all. That's why he asks you, Mr President-respected: When and how we will take action to seize the property of suspicious origin in individuals or at least to make it impossible to dispose of it before all court proceedings, which usually last years and years, are completed. And another question: What are we going to do about the establishment of a financial police that can more actively pursue economic crime and corruption? When are solutions expected that would clearly oblige the judiciary to allow political officials, directors, managers and other senior officials to be held accountable within a significantly shorter period of not more than one year? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u71	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you for asking. As far as the financial police are concerned, Slovenia will receive it in the middle of the following year, when there is also a merger of the tax and customs administration if legislation is adopted in a timely manner. As far as the proceedings concerning the seizure of illegally acquired property are concerned, the law allowing this to take effect from May this year. This is not a lack of legislation, but it is an obvious lack of will for those who have to implement the law. These measures have been extremely few, in many cases virtually none. Here's the huge amount of the problem of the resolution of the banking system. There are billions, specific names and surnames among them, virtually no serious action at the point when the matter comes from the police to the prosecution and the judiciary. As far as the length of the proceedings is concerned, I would like to believe that this is a legal problem. But I don't think so. Unfortunately, practice has shown that it is not. Where it is wanted, the matter is processed very quickly, regardless of the fact that it is necessary, I do not know, to conduct a police investigation in Parliament, to condemn a Member. That's what happened in the previous reference. In six months he was legally convicted, according to the first and second stages. Probably justified. I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about, obviously, yes, if he wants to. However, there are cases of years and years dragging on, even getting old, as Zbilski Gaj now shows, or processes that drag on for years and years and then release the detainees. In the last days before the judgment is delivered, these things are in fact not to raise suspicion, but to strengthen the conviction that there is no problem in the legislation that there is a problem with the implementation of this legislation. This is a question that can largely not be addressed to the government. The government is an executive power, there is a judicial branch of power that you should ask for, but you never have the opportunity to do so. This is the problem that I was talking about earlier, at some point that Slovenia will have to resolve. It's not about the independence of this branch of power, I don't think that's a problem. In concrete proceedings, it is a matter of whether or not this judicial branch of power works. On the basis of these backlogs, the recent findings of the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the Supreme Court's data show that if we subtract a few smaller species there when entering the land book and executing, when it comes to proper judicial proceedings, the delays are not eliminated, but they accumulate sooner or at a rate such as to take 200 years to remove them and see them. Whenever a person launches this debate, he is accused of being involved in an independent branch of power and so on. But if we don't discuss it, there won't be a solution. This debate needs to start somewhere. We have presented some measures that we think would solve this problem. We don't think we're the only smart ones and it's the only possible solution. There's probably others. I hope we get to them in real time, alone, without someone from the outside finally having to tell us what to do. Because what is happening with us is not only a threat to us, we are now members of a wider family, and we are really not aware of it. First of all, I do not think there should be untouchable areas in this country that should not be discussed. If they are such spheres, if we are to rent them, then we must also accept that the situation will not change. Finally, this or any other composition of the National Assembly will be the one that will have to take decisions here on the basis of which the system will begin to function.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u73	Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your answer. Maybe more to think about than an additional question. It is an essential expectation for the public that the rules and laws apply to all and that the rule of law will respond to all irregularities within reasonable timeframes, effectively, without delay. We have a law on the seizure of illegally acquired property. What you have mentioned, Madam President, we have the possibility of prioritising individuals in the proceedings, we have a lot of things written in the laws, and unfortunately in practice it has turned out, and so have you mentioned, as ineffectively. Or in other words. If the court had reacted immediately on the basis of the suspicions of a criminal act, the proceedings would have led to normal procedural deadlines, then there would certainly not have been such scenarios as we have witnessed in recent times in Slovenian streets and markets. People are well aware that in the past there have been many abuses, damage to state property, businesses, and unjustifiable wealth of individuals. What bothers citizens and citizens of Slovenia most is that, despite the fact that everything has been happening in public, almost none of the main actors have reached the time limit of justice once. I ask you, Mr President, and of course all of us: What more must we do as politicians and when representatives of society do to make the implementation of existing legislation by all control and prosecution authorities more effective than at this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u75	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u76	I think I've answered that question in part before. We must eliminate the inviolability of anyone. When this is done in Slovenia, then things will begin to move where they are now concrete. And as you have already mentioned the protests again, because before I had no opportunity when a respected colleague on the first question of Parliament mentioned an army and so on, which was supposed to deal with these protests, I think that these are too serious things to play with. No army deals with protests. This government will fully defend the constitutional right of people to peaceful assembly, even if this assembly has not been declared. And we have no problem with that. It is true, however, that some retired generals, including someone who is still an official advisor to the President of the State, are calling for protests. And here the army is indirectly involved, but the one retired, and I think it's extremely unworthy. And one more thing about the protests. In view of the measures that are being taken everywhere in Europe, there are actually these reactions everywhere. People have a largely justified feeling that the belt does not tighten in all the same way and protest against different addresses. What separates Slovenia from others, given the problems we have, and given the magnitude of these problems, is that we have no banker in these calls, and we have a few billion holes in a banking system that is not created alone, and we have no one to blame for all of the things you said earlier that the rule of law or the rule of law does not work. It seems to me that in this part, looking at the targets is directed and that among those who direct this, there are very strong interest lobbyists who fear that the law on the rehabilitation of the banking system will also lead to the clearing up of responsibility at this stage, and that once again those who have aged in the last 10 or 15 years on a dozen major corruption and criminal cases or are still able to do their job.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u77	I thank the President of the Government for the answers given, and we continue with our questions to the Minister and Minister. First of all, it is Mrs Maša Kociper, who will raise the question of the question to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Dr. Vinko Gorenak! 30. This year, shortly before midnight, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, with the assistance of three other Members, submitted initiatives for two legislative referendums, a referendum on the law on the so-called bad bank and a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding. We have done this, inter alia, because one of the initiators who initiated the referendum under the Bad Bank Act, after the deadline in which they could complete their initiative, has learned that they have run out of 154 signatures for their initiative. Even though they claimed to have submitted more than 800 additional signatures. However, the decision of our party and other Members regarding these referendums has strongly warmed the political scene and aroused violent reactions and strong reactions. After the President of the National Assembly quickly rejected the initiative on the referendum on the Bad Bank Act for formal reasons, the debate on the referendum on the Slovenian State Holding took place. Immediately, in the media, in particular those more favoured by your government, there were insinuations about the alleged dispute over the signatures sent. These insinuations continued, despite the fact that it was said that all the Members who signed the initiatives were subsequently declared, through the protected address of their e-mail or telephone, that they were clearly made available under both signatures. 5. 11. The SDS representative at the College of the National Assembly took the initiative to propose a decision that does not fall within the competence of the College to have the General Police Administration verify the signatures of Members on the referendum initiative by means of a graphological analysis of the signatures of certain Members. They also said who should carry out this analysis, namely, the General Police Administration or the National Forensic Laboratory. When only the leader of the SDS Group voted in favour of such a decision in the College, the ruling coalition also completed initiatives on the same day to assess the constitutionality of this referendum and referred the same question to the court, although the Constitutional Court for such matters is not competent. On the same day, an appeal was also filed with virtually the same requirements as I have stated so far. I ask you, Minister, to answer me: What acts is involved in the suspicion of this accusation, and what crime is to be committed in this case? What article of the Penal Code provides that counterfeiting of a signature is a criminal offence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u79	Minister Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much. What kind of complaint are you asking me about, I don't know, so I'm gonna take enough time. If I run out of time today, I'll be able to explain to you tomorrow because I'll have more time than today. What was going on was 30. Ten. 2012, I don't know. We responded in time. It was 2:20 p.m., and I believe that the President of the National Assembly also did not miss any deadline. I mean, or we'll have more time tomorrow. Why the president of the National Assembly refused your initiative, I know from the newspapers. But I'm guessing he did the right thing by making a photocopy. You just can't prove something with a photocopy, and you can't graduate with a photocopy, because you know that. You can't photocopy a diploma and say you want to graduate. But that's none of my business. Look, the Members have said, "the signatures are mine," you know, it's not like that in the section. I'll tell people at home that they'll understand. If a cop is looking at a chicken thief reported by neighbor A, and a suspect is neighbor B. A policeman doesn't go to his house and say, "Neighbor B, you have a chicken thigh on your plate, did you steal a neighbor's chicken?" And he said, "No, I didn't." That's no way to investigate crimes. Criminal acts are being investigated according to the profession, and I believe that criminals do. As far as the College is concerned, I won't go into this. College is a matter of the National Assembly, I'm not a member, and that's none of my business. But I can tell you the next thing. Regardless of the debates in the parliamentary group, or in the newspapers, or in the College of the President of the National Assembly, anywhere, since each of us can discuss in accordance with our competences, there remains one fact that you well know as a lawyer. This is, in the case of suspicion of criminal service, you, as a citizen or a Member, are obliged to report the matter, while it is also necessary to say that police officers are obliged to start investigating the crime under official responsibility. Every voice, the real law that comes to the prosecutor or criminals about the crime being committed, is a sign to the police that it has to work. And even in this case, it's a shame to discuss anything else. The police, regardless of all the debates, regardless of all the writings in the newspapers and so on, are obliged to respond at the moment when the suspicion of criminal service was reported. Complaints. If you asked me about the charges against Mrs Župevec, let me tell you that she spoke there in the hall, that I should apologize to her. I don't know why I'd apologize to her because she's not a suspect in the criminal service. We probably know this was a criminal complaint in that case and in the sense that someone could falsify her signature. It is said that she can act as a witness in this proceedings against an unknown perpetrator who could possibly have forged her signature if he had. And she's not a suspect. And I don't usually apologize to suspects, but I don't think I have any reason to apologize. We run at the annual level of tens of thousands of predictive procedures, then we could do something else than what I'm doing. You are well aware that according to all the professional rules, the criminal police have also obtained its own signatures and have cast doubt that an unknown perpetrator/convict committed a crime. There is no longer any suspicion of a criminal offence, therefore there is no suspicion of a criminal service. And that's what the police reported to the D.A. I don't know why you're asking me about Mrs. Zupevchev's status. If you were going to say she was a suspect, she wasn't a suspect. So the suspect was unknown. It's an article. This was considered under Article 251. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u81	Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm going to ask you to read what crime this is and the first paragraph that describes this crime, because I think we both understand each other very well. I'm asking you: Was the authenticity of the signatures that their owners themselves said were authentic? Your comparison of the chicken and leg and A and B is completely wrong, because in this case, the person who was supposed to steal her chicken should ask if they really stole them, and she never said that. Members never claimed that their signatures were not authentic. Therefore, a strange crime has been investigated that has no basis in our criminal legislation. I also ask you: How many anonymous allegations of this type do the police and the prosecution receive daily, and what is the reaction time in other cases? For the whole public, and we Members, cannot wonder how little time it took for the criminal police to step into the National Assembly and start investigating this crime. However, we are moving forward, the fact is that it was a grave and, in democracy, an unprecedented pressure has been placed on Members who, in carrying out their work in signing a referendum initiative for which they have the right to a constitution, have experienced severe pressure on their status and probably also an intervention in parliamentary immunity. So I'm asking you: Can you read the article on the crime and if you can state the status of both Zupevčevčev and other members of the investigation? Can you tell how many complaints they receive a day and how quickly they react in other cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u83	Minister Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Your question was as follows: How was the police investigation carried out and the suspicion of what crime was investigated by police officers when they checked the authenticity of the signatures sent under the call for a legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding? You have not announced anything on anonymity on the question of the Member State, so ask me a new question. It can be written, it can be oral and you will get information. Of course I don't have that information. I've told you the rest of the information, the status and the article, so I can tell you the following. In this regard, your parliamentary group has done something about the arrival of police officers in Parliament, in particular your leader of the parliamentary group, which may have brought a positive result to your parliamentary group, and to the country and to this Parliament has done great damage at home and abroad. When we were investigating the alleged five controversial signatures, she was a criminalist and not a criminalist, because she was just one, she called your parliamentary group to the National Assembly. He was unable to make contact with Mr Möderndorfer, so he called her back about eleven and something, and I will be able to call her back in a few minutes tomorrow. She told him what she wanted to do, this is a conversation with five Members. She allowed the opportunity to determine the place, time and space. He replied that this day the parliamentary group does not have the time that the criminalist took for, okay, so you will set the date, place and time. Twenty minutes after that, Mr. Möderndorfer calls this same criminalist back and says, "Ma'am, come immediately in twenty minutes to the National Assembly, now we will take the time for you." Well, then Mr. Möderndorfer stood up for that pay phone and said, "We have a serious criminal investigation in the parliamentary group, which is why I ask for an hour of recess." You see, in the global and Slovenian public, he made the impression that the police broke into this House and that I don't know what's going on. That's not true. This could have brought some points to your parliamentary group, and the country and Parliament were in harm's way because it was lying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u85	Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u86	I would like to request that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister's reply be discussed. I also protest the Minister's remarks that my question was not in line. It was exactly as predicted, aimed at how the investigation was conducted and which crime was investigated. And now only on what the Minister was now dramatically referring to. Personally and in our group, we did not really know that when you are called by criminals and want to have a conversation about a crime that is evident to members of the National Assembly, you have the opportunity to set a deadline in a week or two, in the evening, in a café or perhaps in a hostel. We just didn't know that. I myself was present when the leader of our group checked the presence of the disputed Members, found that one of them was leaving in an hour and a half and will not be on the plane for a few days, so he called back and suggested that the interview be held as soon as possible. The fact that you can talk to criminals about evenings or mornings at coffee or lunch is indeed quite new. It is a matter of complete deliberation, and the Minister wants to cover up that there has been a serious interference in the immunity of Members, in the work of the National Assembly and for something that can happen in Belarus, but should not happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u87	The following question will be raised by Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone, especially Minister Cernač. In view of the fact that we have received data in the budget to increase investment maintenance funds, and also for the construction of state roads in 2013, an increase of 28.3% is expected to take place compared to 2012 and 43.8% more in 2014 for investment maintenance and construction of state roads. I would like to ask the Minister because there was no opportunity to hold this debate at the time of the adoption of the 2013 and 2014 budget, because no one from the Ministry was present at that time in this debate: How will the evolution of the state road G2-106 take place, this is the road connecting Ljubljana, that is, our national centre with the southern part of Slovenia, where we can place most of the settlements, the larger cities located near this road or places from Veliki Lašč, Ribnica and Kočevje all the way to the border crossing with Petrina? For the data shows that the road is extremely dangerous. And these data are actually obtained by international institutions, which are in fact independent of ministries or governments. It is a test of this road by those who use the road network and then point out that these problems on the roads are solved, that no accidents occur, and unfortunately with fatal consequences. We have already observed that this very road is a G2-106 road that has somehow been called the road of death. As soon as these names appeared in public, we met with the fact that they were drawn to almost 70.80% of the 60km distance of the uninterrupted line, which certainly increased security. But when we look at the fact that the areas that need a better link to the highway network because of their economic development, of course, it is crucial how concrete measures will be implemented on this road, so, Mr. Minister, I ask: When will the connection be completed, full connection on the Šmarje - Sap motorway? When will the state spatial plan for Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje be adopted, which are the four most demanding projects on this road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u89	Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you so much for asking. Good-bye, everybody! In 2012, in this year's year-on-year, over €3 million and over €600,000 in 2014 were earmarked for all measures on this link or will be earmarked for over €600,000 in 2012. Most of these funds are earmarked for the third band project in Pijava Gorica and also for this larger volume in 2013 and the smaller in 2012 are conditioned by complications in the execution or liquidity problems of the selected operator on this route. The project will cover several crossings, individual sections, individual circles, short-term modernisation in much of this road connection. With regard to Šmarje - Sap connection, Darsa, who has the resources for this purpose, has proposed to step up this project, which is why the 2013 programme has increased funds for this purpose, for land purchases, for design, which is expected to be implemented in the first half of next year and thus lays the groundwork for the realisation of this full connection at the end of 2013 and 2014 respectively. In the framework of the review of the implementation of individual national spatial plans in June and later in October this year, the government found that the project of the bypasses of Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje is a project that makes sense to be run separately for individual settlements, and therefore it was decided that the State spatial plans for these settlements would also take place separately, given the specifics of the individual settlements. For these purposes, €100,000 is foreseen in 2013 and €257 000 in 2014. This year's experience shows that the dynamics of individual projects do not usually run as originally planned. That is why we follow this dynamic, and I believe it will be so in the coming year. On this basis, in September or October of this year, I have also redeployed some €5 million in state road infrastructure resources in line with the slow dynamics of individual projects in line with the most urgent needs and thus have somehow allowed more to be done in the context of modernisation and upgrading of the state road network in those sections that were the most neurological and most neurological points than would have been the case. We will also try to do so in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u91	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for the answers in this part. Of course, I welcome the decision to accelerate the full connection in Šmaru - Sap, because this is one of the investments that can really, to a very large extent relieve the morning spikes in the area of Škofljica. At the same time, I understand the difficulties the Directorate has on the third belt in Pijava Gorica due to the difficulties of the contractor. However, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out that you are trying to implement within your department the advantage of 3. However, the development axis has had the highest unemployment rate since the economic crisis since 2008 due to the adopted Pocolpian programme, which has been adopted in order to accelerate the economic development of an area with the highest unemployment rate since 2008. The government also agreed in 2011 that all sectoral policies, i.e. in the context of transport policy, should be given priority to this area. This means that, by 2016, this programme of Pocolpas should continue, but a number of procedures should be implemented, not only to place Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje in space, but also to start with parts, as 52 million Euros are foreseen by 2016 under this programme of Pocolpas as necessary resources to improve both transport safety and otherwise access to the motorway network. So, Minister, somehow I appeal to you that you, however, are trying to reach a conclusion of the government that exists to implement and substantially more resources than this moment intended to modernise this road, actually invest in this necessary infrastructure. Last but not least, it's the elements of the road, which are very bad, it's a narrow road, which is already today. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] miles per hour. So it is an opportunity to do a lot of things with rapid action by 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u93	Let's move on. Ms Alenka Koren Gomboc will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič! In 2005, the established Income Act introduced a significant novelty in the Slovenian tax system, namely the taxation of income after so-called global income. This extended the range of taxpayers, residents also to persons who earned their income outside Slovenia. This is mainly the case for persons employed in the neighbouring Republic of Austria. According to informal data, there are 12 to 14 thousand Slovenian citizens, of whom about 60% come from Pomurje, 10% from other regions of Podravja and Gorenjska and 40% from Styria and Koroška. Cross-border migrant workers need to be distinguished from migrant workers in general because of their more sustainable nature of migration. The basic characteristics of most Slovenian cross-border labour migrants are generally low-taxable persons, monthly gross earnings below 1,000 euros, lost their jobs in Slovenia and are not available for them at this time. They do not benefit from their employment abroad because of unemployment in Slovenia. Other important circumstances of cross-border labour migrants: they are included in the pension and health system of foreign countries, health services in Slovenia cannot be used, except for emergency and basic ones, which are charged to a foreign health fund, absence from Slovenia due to working on average for more than 240 days a year, employees in a different economic and legal environment are not in a position to conclude employment contracts on the basis of which the employer would pay them the costs of another home, additional cost of staying, food during work and transport to work. I would point out here in particular that they are workers who have not been found for their own fault without work here at home, and instead of staying at the burden of the country, they have sought employment in the neighbouring Republic of Austria. Therefore, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, your Ministry, after all the known facts, could only continue the procedure for amending the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of property taxes in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 15 April 2007 to ensure that they were then taxed only in the country of origin, namely in the Republic of Austria. Dear Minister: When will the issue of avoiding double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria for so-called day migrants be settled, or when can we expect the definitive arrangements for the taxation of so-called day migrants by the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u95	The Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you for asking. The issue of avoiding double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria has already been settled. It shall be governed by a Convention which entered into force on 1 January 1999 or which shall apply from 1 January 1999. In the meantime, it has been slightly complemented twice, but all of this applies. It is also clear that the tax paid by someone in Austria is deducted from his tax duty in Slovenia, which means that there is no double taxation. Thus, the income earned in Austria is taxed in Austria, the tax paid there is deducted from the tax to be paid in Slovenia. This is a common method in all conventions, except in one, with Sweden, which stems from the times of the former Yugoslavia, we have such a deduction method agreed, it is one of two common methods. It is true that, in 2008, I think, the proposals for this Convention to be supplemented in order to specifically address the issue of cross-border migrants were, in addition to what has already happened, but were found at the time for various reasons that this is not possible. In the end, there was also real willingness on Austria's side, so the government then, I think in 2010 or 2011, resigned from this and settled matters in the Income Act so that it granted these cross-border workers additional relief in income, the real effect of which is that practically in Slovenia they do not pay special taxes. Once again, I would like to say that this is not a problem of double taxation, it is a problem of higher effective taxation in Slovenia or lower tax classes in Slovenia. That is to say, people who in Slovenia would earn as much as those people you are talking about in Austria would pay substantially more tax here than they pay in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you. The next question will be raised by Mrs Saša Kos, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Chairman, nice greeting to all present. Dear Minister, our current situation or unemployment is lower than in some other countries of the European Union, but it is very high among young people. In the long run, for years to come, we can realistically expect our country to be abandoned by young, capable, educated experts, in whose knowledge Slovenia has invested a great deal of resources. But if new jobs are not available, brain drain is inevitable. The long-term consequences of brain draining to countries with better conditions for research work means that we give up on those individuals who represent the progress and development of our society. The consequences of the reduction of research resources, i.e. fundamental and applied, will also be seen in the smaller economic development or in its inefficiencies. Experts point out that if the number of Masters and Doctors of Science increases by a percentage, the real gross domestic product increases by more than 0.2%. Only by increasing their number can we explain more than 1% of the annual growth of Slovenian gross domestic product in the last 30 years. The possible dismissal of young assistants as a result of the lack of funds also means a violation of the quality of public universities, and thus a poorer job opportunities after the study has been completed. Dear Minister: How does tightening the belt and cutting resources in the field of science and higher education affect the brain’s escape or the transfer of young students abroad? Do you have any collected data on the number of young people who have gone abroad in search of a better future? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u99	The word is Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you so much for asking. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, closely monitors what is happening in science, higher education, including young researchers, young people, brain drains and the like. Unfortunately, we operate more or less with anecdotic data, because statistics, as you know, have been lagging behind for a few years or a few months, what is actually going on, but this moment would be difficult to establish to the data that there is a significant intensification of these processes. Of course, it is true what you say about the reduction in R & D funds. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia listened attentively to warnings, for example, in a letter from the President of the Academy a few weeks ago or vice-president of the SAZU, the speech of Zois prize winner Dr Blaž Rozman, who warned about what might happen in reducing resources for science, research and higher education. In particular, they pointed out a need that is clear and well-known to us, namely, after funding young researchers, because otherwise they would risk up to 400 of them being unemployed. I have also warned myself about this when we talked about budgets for the next two years. As you know, an amendment was tabled in the National Assembly, bringing an additional €16 million for science and higher education, supported by both the coalition and the opposition. This money will focus on rejuvenating, that is, young people, of course, if the budget and ZIPRO are implemented. The biggest challenge in the area of brain escape is the new science doctors or researchers who are early in their research careers. In years with higher budgetary capacity, up to 300 new young researchers were funded annually, with the education process being completed just in time of reduced opportunities. In order to make the problem even bigger, the education of two generations of young researchers is being completed at the same time as the Bologna study has led to the delay of one generation. Of course, we cannot agree that it is exclusively the education, science and culture sector that must employ all these young researchers. We cannot be satisfied with the information that a small proportion of young doctors of science are employed in the economy, but that the largest part, almost three quarters of all, are employed in public research organisations or in state offices. And the real problem of young doctors of science, young researchers, all that our quality education system produces is how to find these people to do jobs in the economy, which, of course, goes beyond the activities of our ministry, even though it is through such mechanisms that we are trying to find jobs for these young people, sub-doctor projects and the like in the economy, so that as many of these excellent minds as possible, which our education system raises, we put into economic development into new jobs. We will also focus these additional 16 million on this type of rejuvenation. As far as brain drain is concerned, it's always happened. Above all, science is internationalised, it is globalised, I also said this at a meeting today, when we presented centres of excellence to ambassadors accredited in Slovenia. Slovenian science is ready for globalisation. The question is, or my thesis is that science is more prepared than an economy, but we have to accept that it is a circulation of heads and that it runs in both directions. Of course, young people leave, but we must do something to enable them to return. I am very disappointed that, in fact, I have no influence that some Harvard professor, probably one of the three four best universities in the world, could have allowed him to return to some department in Ljubljana because the sphere is so autonomous that the minister cannot interfere. But we, if people are going abroad, have already left in the past, we need to create conditions for them to be able to return, so that the whole system is more open. They'll come up with fresh ideas, even better educated, with a whole network of connections that we need to use. It's not just the circulation of the brain, it's not just the brain escape, it's the circulation of the brain. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And we need to adapt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u101	Mrs. Sasha Kos, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm pleased with your answer, it's been quite exhausting. I am also pleased that these 16 million funds have been invested for this purpose, but I have one thought. As you say, experts who travel abroad rarely return or create families there. And that's what I'm afraid is going to happen, because as many assets as you found out yourself, we invest in individuals, it would be best to, by exchange, say somehow, stay in our country and that even this money, this money that we have invested in an individual, then also benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u103	Is there anything you'd like to add to the minister? No, no, no. Good. Let's go to the next question. Same minister, second MP, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. While adopting the Public Finance Balance Act, the education system has had a lot of controversy that changes will encourage the abolition of branch schools. We know that the so-called norms in education were then withdrawn from this law. Now we are again receiving warnings from teachers, letters that you are planning changes at the Ministry that will lead to a trend towards the abolition of branch schools. In Slovenia there are 334 more working and we can say that they are an important part of social, cultural development in the countryside and also an important advocate of the preservation of the Slovenian countryside. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary-General: What changes are you planning, or are you advocating for the maintenance of branch schools? Will you systematically protect their preservation? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u105	The word is Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say very generally that I will try very hard to make sure that Slovenia, the Slovenian educational system, schoolchildren, children, teachers, the whole society survives this crisis in a way that we do not invest less on a child during the crisis than we did in the years before, when financing only substantially increased. However, it is all about, and this needs to be said, about the small changes in this system. Changes in order of 10 %. It's not about any revolution, it's nothing like what's said in the kindergarten case, we're gonna make a chicken farm. If you put one more child in a group of tens, twelves, one isn't that big a difference. As far as primary education is concerned, what we want to achieve is a tiny increase in the average number of children in the classroom. From the average number of 19, one of the lowest in Europe, we would like to raise it to 21. From 19 children to 21 children on average, there is no serious problem in class. Branch schools or the rural school network are, of course, part of the problem or part of the problem to be addressed. I would like to point out that nothing changes for the branches of schools with the proposed law. For the abolition of the branch school, fewer than 14 students remain in the entire school. In nine classes less than 14 students or in border areas of concern, fewer than 5 students in the entire branch school. And we don't expect anything to change around here. However, in the context of the new Public Finance Balance legislation, it is envisaged that the founder will have to change the status of a separate or parent school to a branch if this independent school has fewer than nine departments. It is said that a school that does not have a single class of nine will become a branch school, which means that it will be a little easier to organize a school — unless it is the only school in the local community, then it can stay with less than nine classes if the only school in the congregation. After the current arrangement, and that's all the change, but that's the limit that's now going to be nine, and so far it's eight. Thus, the changes planned do not affect the status or organizational changes of branch schools, but rather the fact that a school is a home school and when it is a branch school and, in fact, a small one.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you. Complementary request, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u108	Dear Minister, I am really pleased with your answer and I hope that as many Slovenian teachers and teachers as possible have heard it because I find that they are probably getting the wrong information. Apparently, it's from the unions, too. Nevertheless, I might like to point out that in the field, it is likely that the way in which branch schools finance their primary schools is used to place them in their home schools, thus weakening only the branch school. But it's probably not a matter for which we could take the Ministry, but it's probably a matter of the local community and the principals themselves, so thank you for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u109	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u110	Maybe it is true, I think that there is a great deal of exaggeration in this area, as I say, about the changes that are in general small, which tend to keep the system as normal as possible, that in no way do we deteriorate its quality, but that we try to save something small in particular where things have grown slightly in the years when the number of children has decreased and the number of teachers has increased. Some of the legal bases for the processes that you are talking about that programs, objects, classes are transferred from branch to primary school, and so on in the Ministry’s actions in fact. This reminds me a little of the discussions a few weeks ago, and months ago, because of the decline in the number of employees in secondary schools, it was also the wrong ministry, and this was only a regular annual result of the decline in the generation of enrolment in secondary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u111	The next is Mr Matjaž Han, who will ask a question from the Ministry of Finance, Dr Janez Šušterič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. But today's going much faster. Dear Mr Šušteršič, it is already known that you have long foreseen an additional intervention in the total amount of public sector employees' salaries, because in the state budget or in the public treasury, there is a lack of money for employees' salaries. That's all nice and all right. I am aware of the need to deal cost-effectively and rationally with public funds, but I believe that there are other options for rationalisation instead of lowering salaries in the public administration, which should be given priority in terms of savings before you put pressure on lowering the wages of employees in the public sector. That is why, Minister, I want to answer two questions that I have also announced to you before. I'm asking: How many contracts for work, business contracts or copyright contracts with natural and legal persons have been implemented in what amounts in the 2012 budget year, namely, for a single ministry, for the general secretariat and for the cabinet of the Prime Minister, for government services, I speak for government offices and services, for the purposes of advice or professional assistance, and how much money has been allocated for education? In the financial year 2012, how much were the costs of meetings or other forms of compensation and travel costs belonging to members of different working groups, or other forms of action set up by the Government for individual purposes — I am speaking here for inter-ministerial working groups — and have they been set up by individual ministries? How much in this sum are such costs for members who are so-called external collaborators or experts, so they are not in working groups as government representatives or ministries? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u113	The Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your question, and also for that call, that everything is fine and fine. But the question was raised on Friday, if I'm not mistaken, we could verify the things we have access to in the records we see at the Ministry of Finance. As far as the author's fees and business contracts are concerned, we see direct budget users, we don't see schools, hospitals, health institutions, where, as far as I hear, there's a lot. However, we have looked at the system we have to manage the budget, and in this we see an account which is intended for payment under business contracts and under contracts for authors' fees. As a rule, contracts with natural persons can cover a wide range of things: interpretation, translation, analysis, lecture, even judicial evaluators and the like. It's about natural persons. This year, 7.7 million were paid out of these accounts by 13 December. This is the number by which I would like to say that 10 million and a half were paid from these same accounts for these same purposes last year, according to 2011. This means that we have reduced this expenditure by 25%. If we want the exact number of the contract, the purposes of these contracts, we need to ask each budgetary user separately. We don't have direct access to this data. And that wasn't random. As you know, at the beginning of our term of office we adopted some conclusions, frozen the conclusion of such contracts. There was a lot of talk about it back then. Then, also, the Public Finance Balance Act set out explicitly the purposes for which these contracts can be concluded, which is beyond that, but requires the Government's specific agreement. I can tell you that we are very reluctant to give this agreement, and sometimes at the bad will of our fellow ministers. In fact, the 26% savings in this are significantly higher than the savings we are proposing at the mass of wages. In fact, we are working in this direction as you yourself have suggested that where this is easier, we rely on and implement greater savings. As for the working groups, the inter-departmental working groups and the meetings, it is again so that we can look at the account that has the title of the meeting of the committee participants, whatever that means. Here were 700 000 euros spent this year, which is probably not much, but I would like to say that I have already received an e-mail several times, which contains a long list of committees, interdepartmental working groups, etc. We have cleaned this list thoroughly after a month or two of our mandates, one bunch of these working groups, the inter-departmental groups we have abolished. Most of those that we've shut down have only worked on paper anyway. It is said that it was once established by a government decision because it wanted to settle a matter. Sometimes even on that principle, if you don't know the answer, you make a working group. And even if this working group had met at the time, even when it had finished its work, no one had reached a conclusion that the working group no longer existed. We've cleaned that up. That list that's circling, I think it's old. Above all, I would like to stress that if this is an interdepartmental working group, then the people who participate in the interdepartmental working group are the people who are employed in the districts. That's what the name says. As a rule, there are no external experts. If they are already, many of these external experts work quite volunteering or receive a minimum meeting, some 10 euros maybe, or reimbursement of travel costs if they come from far away. Otherwise, it is mainly for officials or public servants who do not receive any additional payment, but do so, as is well called, within their regular work and duties, probably at seven, eight, nine or ten hours of work in one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u115	Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u116	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I'm aware that in such a short time, you can't give me an extensive answer. Therefore, article 245 of the Rules of Procedure allows me to ask you to give me an answer in writing, because you will be able to find all the information. Now I don't know if 7 million is big or small or 700,000 is big or small or unnecessary. That'll probably give me your answer, which I'll get in writing. But I'd say in the process of lowering wages like this. The easiest thing, however, is not only your government, but also probably our government has done it, linearly cut all public administration staff alike, even though we know that some are very good workers, experts, and some are a little less or not so eager to work. That is why we should do some job analysis in this Slovenia, which is what we need in Slovenia, what we do not need, who are good workers. Those who are good, reward, and forgive those who are bad. Of course, you can't do that in one month, in two months, but you can do it in one year. But I suggest that the government does this and does some analysis of what needs to be done in this Slovenia in the field of the public system. So, Minister, I ask you to give me an answer in writing in accordance with Article 245. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u117	Next up, it's mag. Ms Leila Hercegovac, who has a question for Mr Tomaž Gantar's Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Normative Programme of Work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia contains a list of proposals for laws under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia planned to adopt them by the end of 2012. In the areas of the Ministry of Health, the following laws are listed: Act amending and supplementing the Health Inspection Act, Act amending and supplementing the Health Act, Act on Medicinal Products, Act on the withdrawal and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment and Act amending and supplementing the Medical Act. So far, only one law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, has been considered by the National Assembly and is still in the referendum procedure. I ask Mr Gantar, Minister of Health: When will the other laws be introduced into the legislative procedure, and why was none of these laws submitted despite the planned programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u119	The Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you for asking. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, some things have changed during this time. As you probably know, the forecasts of health financing itself in 2013 were very favourable to the Institute a few months ago, indicated a good result, today the picture has changed significantly, given this projected negative business of almost 100 million euros. That is why we have changed some of the priorities. On the other hand, we need to know that there is only one expert in the ministry in some areas who has to do something else. They work on regulations, controls and things like that. As regards the first Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Inspection Act, this was withdrawn in August from the procedure for a simple reason, because we did not then decide to reorganise the services within the Ministry, that is to say, the Chemicals Office and then also for ionising radiation, integration, integration and because it was not necessary to amend the Inspection Act, so that this law will not be considered. The Medicinal Products Act is now under public scrutiny until 10 January and will then be submitted for further consideration after inter-sectoral coordination. The law on the removal and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, here we have simply taken some more time, not much haste, although it needs to be changed. The issue was mainly in the direction of a reopened debate at the professional level on the alleged consent of donors, donors of organs. In the field of expertise, this issue is somehow harmonised and the law will also go into regular procedure in the spring, given that other substantive changes were not envisaged. Then it's the Act of Pharmacy. We opted first for the drug law, given that we are somehow forced by the European directive. As it is said, the law is publicized, and it is done by the same people as the pharmacy law. This law will go to public hearing in January, but there has been a little more work on it, given that we have not decided on the novel, but to amend the whole pharmacy law and we are practically changing it completely. Most of the work and movement that has led to this is the Health Act, which is one of the two most important reform laws that we are also completely amending and will also be under public scrutiny in January. He's also tied up in some other areas where we've been waiting for a while. The fact is, given the current financial situation, this law has a priority before we go into changing the way health is financed under the second most important law, namely the Health and Health Insurance Act. Therefore, after the new year, I think that the continuation of all these procedures and public hearings will continue, and also in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u121	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have explained some things, but according to the proposals of the other ministries it is noted that the work of the Ministry of Health is indeed not effective enough. Mr Minister, whether you agree with me, health service providers also say that we must or must act differently, or that health care will not remain the way it is, and the bad times await it, and even more so those who will be sick. Otherwise, you partly replied that the Health Act will be on the programme in January 2013. When will the second law on health care and health insurance be followed, since these two laws form the basis for health reform? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u123	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you. Look, first you need to adopt and know what the Health Act will be like. In fact, it binds itself to a rational organisation and essentially a lot of these changes, which are extremely important when we assess how much money we have available for health insurance rights. If we worked together on both of them, then there were major differences between these two laws. Of course, I find it hard to agree with you that we're doing a little work. We should just be there and see how much work we're doing. The fact is that these are two laws that have failed to be adopted in the last 10 or more years, as evidenced by their complexity. And it probably wouldn't be fair to patients if they first decided to limit their rights before we even determine what a rational organization in health care would be. This is provided for in the Health Activity Act. And another obstacle to some extent is that this law will also be affected by the law on public institutions, which is also in preparation. We must also act here in concert with the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration. However, I must say that, at this point in time, given the importance of this content, the health system or patients will not be further burdened, what is more crucial is what we will agree on with regard to the financial plan of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, because all of these changes in 2013 would not, in principle, have any effects. However, in order to do so already in force in January 2013, it would be virtually impossible. However, I am aware of the importance and I think that all of these are the two key laws that we will have to adopt and at the same time accept many compromises. If non-rational referendum initiatives occur again, Slovenian health care is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u125	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, a motion for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I really believe that working at the Ministry of Health now is not easy. It's true, as you said, 10 years of law in drawers. But given that health is public goods and is indeed something we all need, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate on the work of the Ministry of Health and its effectiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u127	The next question will be raised by Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, and Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u128	The decision has fallen. South Stream will lead across Slovenia from 2014. The construction of almost 2 000 kilometres of long pipeline South Stream, which will bring Russian gas through Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary, Slovenia to Italy, has already begun to build and is expected to be built by 2015. The Slovenian part of the South Stream gas pipeline is expected to be 266 kilometers along the route, the investment is estimated to be worth 1 billion euros, the route on Slovenian soil is 266 kilometres long, the diameter of the tube is 20 meters and in Slovenia there are two compressor stations. Positive Slovenia supports large infrastructure projects, as we have also written in our programmes, and we are also constantly repeating that this has an important impact on the development of the economy. At the same time, we stress the need to take care of environmental protection and the development of tourism. Mr. Chernač, please give us the route on which the South Stream will run. I want to know: Is this the best and optimal solution so that we do not find out later that there were other reasons for this route? Will Slovenian builders take precedence over the construction work? And I'm asking Mr. Jarryev: What about tourism in tourist areas, such as Kranjska Gora and Rateca, due to a specific environmental intervention? I want to know: What will this accomplish for the inhabitants there, or will they just lose, is said in the context of pollution, intervention into space, and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u129	First of all, Minister Cernač will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The project was somehow initiated during the period of the previous Janša government, between 2004 and 2008. Three years ago, an interstate agreement was signed between the Republic of Slovenia and the Russian Federation, which somehow justified the project. A joint venture was established this summer and a final investment agreement on this project was reached a good month ago. All these milestones speak of the fact that the final route of this pipeline cannot yet be known, there are several variants in the game, one of them Kidricovo-Vodice, Vodice-Ratce. All procedures will be carried out in accordance with Slovenian and European legislation. This is a project which is extremely important, as you yourself said, even within the international framework. For this reason, of course, Slovenia will also respect European environmental standards. Public participation will be ensured, as will all other State spatial plans. Activities will be carried out in accordance with Slovenian and European legislation, but I believe that on this project we will be able to do everything possible to keep the timeline, which was somehow drawn up, on this project. At the moment, I cannot present the South Stream project routes to you because the final route of this project does not yet exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u131	Minister Zerjav, will you add something?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u132	First of all, it must be found that this project is extremely important for the Slovenian economy and thank God that we have it. I believe that if Slovenia had happened what happened to Croatia, today we would have listened to some other questions, why we did not care enough about this project to come to Slovenia. This is a project that weighs about one billion, is one of the key foreign direct investments, and I hope that in this country we will all do everything possible to complete the project as soon as possible, and that Slovenian companies that currently have major problems with the retail price of natural gas will have what they have. Therefore, natural gas for Slovenian companies will therefore be cheaper due to the South Stream. I agree, however, that when putting the project into space, it is also necessary to look at the wider scope of the project and seek synergies with sustainable tourism development. I would also like the tourist economy, if we are speaking specifically about Kranjska Gora, to be able to approach this route through the municipality of Kranjska Gora, a positive one, and above all a constructive one. And I don't see any reason why there can't be a route or a pipeline that will be placed a meter or two below the ground to be placed in a tourist destination, given that it's not about any pollution and it doesn't tell the environment that it's not practically about any impact of this pipeline when it's built when it's operating on the environment. It's not about some kind of release, it's not about any shows. And as I said, the pipeline goes a meter or two underground, so I don't see any reason to panic. And I expect and appeal to all that they will not appear in Slovenia such and other people who will try to stop this project because it is an important project, a project for the Slovenian economy, construction and more. Above all, the part where the pipeline will be in operation when we use cheaper gas in Slovenian factories is important in Slovenian companies. I hope that we will do this as soon as possible, that the realization will take place in accordance with the plan, with the plans and that these effects will come as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlič, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I must say that you surprised me, Mr Černač, with the answer when you said that you had not yet set the routes, because there were two possibilities in the media, namely that the route from Ljubljana instead of Primorsko turned to Gorenjska. That is why I have somehow prepared my question. If we decide to take the route to the Zgornjesavska valley, I would like to tell you that the Zgornjesavska valley is extremely narrow, followed by Sava Dolinka, regional road, cycling trail and the end. In fact, I wonder if this route will be across Slovenia, whether or not it will lead to other areas, which we know is a problem for the people around it. In part, Mr. Žerjav has already said that he will. I just want you to confirm that it will be. In addition, I am interested, I am referring to Mr Žerjev: How many jobs will the surrounding population gain, according to those in the areas through which the route will flow, with the nepotism already mentioned today, that you have employed children of the visible representatives of the SDS in the company Plinovovod, including at the head of the Prime Minister of the Government? Will the surrounding population also get any jobs — if not at all? How many funds can this possibly flow into the municipal treasury, where the gas pipeline will cross the municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u135	Minister Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u136	First, your insinuation of employment must be rejected again. Today, it has been repeatedly pointed out that jobs in these companies have been made on the basis of calls for proposals to be made by all those who meet the conditions. And I believe they were chosen by the best. Personally, I would not be comfortable with my child being stigmatized because I am a politician, and should he run for a job, he should not get it because he is my child. I think that this is unworthy and that this level of political culture should also be driven out of this hall. Regarding the route itself, I said that a final investment decision had been made a good month ago. And if a final investment decision was made a good month ago, it is quite clear that within a month it is not possible to have the final route of this pipeline. But I told you that one of the options is also the one you just mentioned, from Kidricheva to Vodice and from Vodice to Ratec. I also said this, and let me reiterate that in putting this project into space, as with all other projects, the principle of environmental acceptability, environmental assessment, public position will be respected and all the relationships to be taken into account when putting such an infrastructure project into a space with the aim of being placed in such a way that it is not disruptive to the local population and the local environment and that it still brings the greatest benefits from this title. In view of the fact that a billion euro is a valuable project, it is perfectly normal for most of this added value to remain in the Republic of Slovenia. This pipeline will be built in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that about 70 to 80 percent of all these values can remain in our area as regards construction, engineering and all other professions, and I believe that it will be so when this project comes to life. Surely local environments will also benefit from this. These multiplier effects in construction are known, we know what they are and they affect all other spheres, all remaining consumption, and I believe that will be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u138	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like the general debate to be held on the response of ministers, particularly because I want the local population and representatives of the various communities to have as much information as possible or the possibility that they will be able to negotiate better conditions regarding environmental burdens, various additional investments and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the framework of the votes. It is Mrs Renata Brunskole, who has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mags. Radovan Žerjava and Minister of Finance Dr. Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question for the Minister-designate is linked to the Pocolupje programme. The coherent regional development law entered into force on 19 March last year. On 7 April 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Competitiveness Promotion Programme and development support measures for the Cholep in 2011-2016 to promote economic growth in this area. The area is being affected by a significant development gap for the South-Eastern Slovenia region and the whole country. Poor accessibility of the area and poor transport, energy and infrastructure connections are identified as major obstacles. The impact of the financial and economic crisis on business operations has further increased the development backlog for the development region of South-Eastern Slovenia. The beneficiaries of the Pocolpé thus may, following the approval of the General Tax Office of 4 December 2012, apply tax reliefs for investments which started during the period of that Government, i.e. from 17 February 2012, and tax reliefs for new employees which were concluded from 20 March 2012 and later. Please explain: Why did you timely limit tax relief to the beginning of this year, since the first calls to promote initial investment and job creation were published already in the first half of 2011? After the adoption of the regulation by the competent ministry, the Pocolpium Development Management came up with an explanation that the relief could not be used in return and that it would only be possible to apply it at the next tax invoice until 2013. By such a decision, some beneficiaries have been placed in an unequal position with those who have done so since 17 February 2012 and 20 March 2012. However, this is another problem within the framework of the Pocolpa public tender for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, Action 312, supporting the establishment and development of micro-enterprises in rural areas. And I'm going to point out this problem in completing the question. This issue is probably probably more for the Minister of Finance than for the Minister of the Economy, but since the Pocolpa programme is within the Ministry of Economy and Technology's department, I have decided to ask the two Ministers a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u141	Mag. Crane will be the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much for that question. On 7 April 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as you said, adopted the Programme for Promoting Competitiveness and Development Support to the Coalpe in the period 2011-2016 and two out of seven measures, are, as you mentioned, measure two: reimbursement of paid contributions from the employer for social security under Article 27 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and measure three: tax reliefs for employment and investment in the Collop under Article 28 of the Law implemented by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. For both of these measures, it is stated in the programme that this instrument will not be implemented until an appropriate State aid scheme has been approved. For both measures it is written in the programme. A condition for the initiation of the implementation of those measures was the preparation and adoption of a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the granting of regional State aid. This Regulation was adopted on 2 February 2012, as of 4 February 2012, and the next step was, of course, the approval of the State aid scheme for employment incentives and State aid schemes for the tax facility for investment. The Ministry of Finance is 17. 2. 2012 gave an opinion on the compatibility of the State aid scheme for this instrument, i.e. very quickly, and 20. 3. 2012, a little later, the opinion on the compatibility of the State aid scheme to promote employment. Here is the reason why these measures are implemented after 17. 2nd and 20th. 3. 2012. If we can get this over with. In an unjustified situation, some have put the programme itself, which says that this instrument will not be implemented until an appropriate state aid scheme is approved. It probably stalled because of the elections and so on, but on February 2nd, a regulation was drawn up, a little earlier than we took up the mandate, and immediately after that an opinion was issued, and here are now these cut-off dates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Complementary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your answer. It's about why I asked that question. Because entrepreneurs and representatives of the Pocolp development management are addressing me and they are referring to this as an important problem. If we want to promote employment in this area, then we will have to be concrete here and try to take action as far as possible and possibly change certain things as possible. That's why I asked that question. As part of the establishment of micro-enterprises in rural areas, a public tender is currently open to be opened by 16 January 2013. Last week a question was sent to the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which also points to the level of unemployment of individual municipalities, individual local communities, at the location of the investment. And what's going on? The tender itself, which now applies until 16 January 2013, takes into account the unemployment rate for 2010. What does that mean? In particular, for the area of Pocolpja as well as local communities, this is unacceptable because, in such an increasing unemployment in the area, this is particularly expressed in Montenegro and Metlika, this decision, which takes into account the 2010 decision, essentially damages this municipality for one point, since, for example, in Montenegro, the 17.7% unemployment rate is, for example, taken into account the 2010 rate when this was 13.3% and therefore, micro-entrepreneurs lose one point at a time and are not comparable to other problem areas. I therefore propose to both ministers, if this is the case, although this is also a specific issue of the Ministry of Agriculture, a measure. Several times it has been pointed out that this has been the case, even in some other calls. That's why I came to you with this supplement and I'd like to ask for a measure. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. I understand this as your initiative, not something that the Minister should be answering at this point. We'll take that for granted. The following is Mrs Marija Plevčak, who has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrea Vissiak. The question is also addressed here to two ministers, Dr. Šuštersič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u146	That's right. Thank you very much and very nice greetings to all present. My question concerns Slovenian citizens who receive pensions and invalidity pensions abroad and live in Slovenia. This is not about the pensions of Slovenians living along the border with Croatia, but about the pensions that Slovenian citizens receive in Austria, Italy and Germany. These citizens are obliged, in accordance with the Income Act, to register the benefits paid abroad in the previous year's income forecast. In practice, however, it often happens that these revenues are kept secret. This is an offence that should be sanctioned by a tax inspection. It even happens that such individuals ask for social assistance and receive it. Official records do not show that they receive income abroad as they receive it to banks abroad. And the other case is next. A citizen who lived abroad and receives a family pension abroad has created a new partnership in Slovenia. The current partner has died and is now entitled to a family pension in Slovenia under the current legislation. Thus, he receives as many as two family pensions, so that we can understand each other, of course, it is a widow’s pension. It is not shown in the statement of income income from abroad and therefore only the pension received by the Slovenian partner is taken into account in the payment of the allowance for recreation. Since it is lower than the price of €622, it is entitled to the above-mentioned supplement. Insurers who have paid taxes and contributions in the Republic of Slovenia on a regular basis and in accordance with legislation are not entitled to an annual supplement due to overpriced prices for several euros. And where's the justice here? In the DeSUS Group, we are interested in this issue: Do you even know this issue at the Ministry? If the answer is yes, I would like to know: Can you assess how many such cases there are and what these abuses of legislation mean financially for the pension fund or budget? Are similar cases of abuse of legislation with a view to obtaining social assistance or embezzlement of income already taken, and are you considering amending legislation in this area in order not to do so? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u148	Your Honor, thank you very much for this question. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which has paid those insured in Slovenia and elsewhere, does not normally have individual data on persons who have invested the right to a pension abroad. However, these pension recipients themselves are liable under Article 288 of the Tax Procedure Act, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, when making a payment of the income allowance to the tax authority within 7 days of the date on which they first received the pension in the bank account, that is also to say. If they do not, the taxpayers or, more to the point, the smugglers, rather than anyone who does not do so, should also do so on behalf of the other benefits. At present, we do not have a system to inform each other of individual insurance providers about these individual payments and the amount of those payments. It's also another case that you're referring to, when it comes to such, say, double widow's pensions. And even more so, when you say so, until the application of social benefits. Here, of course, every individual undertaking is obliged to report these things in the role. If he does not do so, he will again commit a crime and a misdemeanour and willfully force the state to grant him a recognized right, which he does not. This is a crime. It is very difficult to introduce a system that would block such payments if people knowingly cheat the country. Thank you, however, for this warning, and the Minister of Finance will also explain with their salaries the matter, and we will examine if we find any systemic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u149	If you'll allow me to complete this answer. Of course, it's not everything you say. In fact, many also report their own pensions, as well as other income derived from abroad. In 2010, the last information we received from the Tax Administration was 23,000 such pledges for a foreign pension. And this is about voluntary applications. At the same time, on the basis of double taxation agreements, which also have an important article on information exchange, this exchange of information can take place in a variety of ways, spontaneously, on the basis of an investigation, and sometimes automatically. In the last three years, some 34 thousand such automatic notices about pensions received from abroad have been received to the Tax Administration, which is then checked with data on what people are reporting for themselves. This month, in December, we also adopted a new law on the tax procedure that implements or transposes into our legal order a directive on legal cooperation in the field of taxation. This Directive, however, provides for automatic exchange of income data received by their residents between all EU Member States from 1 January 2015, including on pensions. It is said that at least from then on – this data will be for income received in 2014, then they will be forwarded a year ago – but obviously we will have an automatic exchange of virtually all data within the EU, because this is the easiest. And this directive regulates that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you for the answers, but I must point out that the questions I have raised have come from a number of those who have been affected by the Public Finance Balance Act, particularly those who have minimally exceeded €622. That is also why I have asked this question, because in an unequal situation, our people who have worked here and were disadvantaged are with those who receive funds from abroad. As the Minister has said, it will take a step further in this direction in the following year or 2014 and I think that those who are now disadvantaged will also have one satisfaction. You know what it's like to have money, to end everything, to be friends a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u152	I don't see the need to complement the answer. This was more your comment and your desire to be arranged differently in the future. Mr Bevk alone has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. A visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Due to the effects of the economic crisis and the abolition of certain social and health rights, an increasing number of older people and their relatives are no longer able to pay for the institutional care of the elderly. In doing so, we cannot ignore the fact that the Slovenian population is growing unabated, and accordingly the need for care services for the elderly is increasing, especially in the area of long-term care. According to the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, homes are emptied for the elderly. This year, 166 residents left 31 homes because of high prices. The President of the Management Board of the Community, Boris Koprivnikar, stated that this was a completely new phenomenon. We have reached the threshold of asking whether the services of institutional protection for the elderly are still publicly available, since they are far from individual cases, but also systemic movements. According to some figures, this year, due to the consequences of the economic and financial crisis and the deterioration of the social situation, homes for the elderly have left not 166, but more than 200 providers. Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrey the Visian. Do they keep that information? What measures are envisaged by the Ministry to improve accessibility to care services in nursing homes? When will the Ministry prepare a proposal for a new national social protection programme and a proposal for a law on long-term care and long-term care insurance? I thank the Minister very much in advance for his answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u154	Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u155	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. Let me first point out that homes for older people have been shaping prices that are lower than the legislative options. Therefore, the institutions themselves are aware of the problems of the impact of the price of services on employment and thus ensure that these services are made more accessible. There is also a great deal of support for the funding system, which allows an individual who is unable to pay institutional protection to be paid either by his family or by a local community. This system is relatively developed and has led to the fact that we actually have about 20,000 residents in our homes – I am talking about a data that is about 1 year old. And from then on until today, we're looking at about 200 cases, as you're saying, of the tenants who left home. Why they do this, is a series of reasons, not only those you mention, that the income position of an individual – the caregiver, the tenant in these homes is worse and that prices have risen, which are not, but also in many cases, that the owners are either out of work and that according to the cost of the care provider have also chosen this option as part of the solution. There are 200 cases out of 20,000, which is 1 percent, so difficult to say that this is a mass phenomenon, despite the relatively tight conditions that are in these times of crisis. We have already called on the houses to be alert in such cases and to cooperate with social work centres, this is said in these border situations when people find themselves on this test because of the acute situation, before this decision, whether to leave home or not. So we pay attention to these cases. I would also point out that we want to touch or develop other services that are closer to individuals and do not relate to institutional protection, so we want to develop and strengthen a range of measures for the protection of the elderly at home. We know the so-called home aid, we also support other projects carried out by civil society in this case, but of course we want to systematically address this issue by means of the long-term care and long-term care insurance law that is in preparation. We are working very intensively on this proposal and the law is expected to be discussed and adopted next year. Of course, funding problems are known here in particular and, as a result, the possibilities of payment for the insurance of those to whom it is intended. Here again, we run into the same problem you highlighted. The second question was when will the Ministry draw up a new proposal for a national social protection programme. This proposal for a programme was held in a public debate in the autumn of this year until 19 November. The final version of the text, which will be discussed in December or this year in the Government, is also being finalized and will then be sent to Parliament. This is how we expect it to be considered in the first months of next year also in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u156	Complementary answer, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Thank you, too, for your reply to the Minister. The fact is that the Community of Social Institutions warns, although you have said that it is only 1% of people that it is a systemic phenomenon. Before that, it was very difficult to get a bed or a place in retirement homes. That's a lot easier today. In my opinion, it is also a phenomenon and it can happen that this percentage will increase over the coming years. Projections also show that in Slovenia in 2015 more than 18% of people will be over 65 years of age. According to the criteria of the European Union, about 3.5% of these people in Slovenia are heavily dependent on foreign aid and another 15 on assistance in certain functions. Thus, at least 60,000 people need the help of another person, three to four times the current capacity of social institutions. Their threefold increase would cost extremely much money, but it is also unrealistic and would also require a substantial increase in staff. The Long-Term Care Act, for example, was passed by Germany in 1995, and we have only three drafts of this law. One was prepared by the previous government, one by the Community of Social Institutions and one by the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia. You're saying that the Ministry will hurry with the preparation of this law, and I'm curious: Or at least in some of the issues, we could present this bill in more detail, especially the issue of financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u158	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u159	If I had been asked that first, I would have prepared myself properly and would have had these problems of marriage. Since you didn't announce in your announcement that you were interested in the contents, but in the more time-table, I don't have it. But I know what the key is. The key problem is where to find money to finance this long-term supply. Here are a number of ideas, from this participation of the insurers themselves, which is already a problem in this crisis, some of the country is expected here, which is also a problem in this crisis. In short, we have a series of key open questions. But I know what are the key solutions that will be in this marriage. This is that it will not be favoured and placed at the forefront as an alpha and omega long-term care institutional protection. This can be just some supplement where it is not possible to serve appropriate services at home, where other measures cannot be taken otherwise. I believe, however, that we have relatively busy homes because of the lack of other forms, as well as the prices of these other forms. You all know the so-called home aid that these people receive and are financed from municipal budgets. However, when the price of one hour of home aid is compared, it is about 15 euros. But we know that one day of care, one relatively normal price is between €20 and €25 per day of care. Now you see what the difference is for one hour and then for one day of care, which is why the relatively low price of this day of care is in institutional protection. The purpose of this law will also be to provide a whole range of services to the elderly, given their needs, so that they will not be able to select them and partially finance them themselves. Those who just need a visit from someone who will bring something from the store, and then, of course, this increases according to the demands and needs of the individual. One such system of long-term care is well established in this service work, significantly less appropriate and increasingly less appropriate remains in this financial work. Here we are looking for solutions and therefore understand that we will arrive and go to public debate when the solutions are relatively meaningful and consistent with the stakeholders you listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you, beautiful minister. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. It is almost a day before we get any information from the media or from the field that there is no change at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. Dear Minister, you yourself have said that you have been a researcher, that you have worked scientifically and so on and you know that changes in such an important area as education, where children and young people are involved, do not just work, we will try or in the entire population we will try if it does not, okay, but we will switch and we will go to do something else. So absolutely with children, it does not work with young people, and it must not work, for then we reach into this matter, which is very sensitive and the consequences cannot be solved anymore. What has been happening lately has brought into this place unrest, fear, discomfort, which hinders work creativity, and it is also passed on to children. In the light of savings, this is not savings anymore, but to be as much in debt as possible, as the Prime Minister has said today, you are preparing a wide variety of changes in standards. And if we move on to the youngest, to the institution of education. You want to change the scope of the job to teachers and assistants. Worse still, you want to have one tutor for two wards, increase the number of children in the first period of age to fourteen, in the second period of age to twenty-four. I was wondering if they were involved in this and gave their opinion to teachers, sociologists, pediatricians, psychologists. For we know that when we intervene in this area and increase the number of children, there can be a reduction in the presence of educators in children, and this can cause neurosis in children, various phobias and consequently we know what can happen. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: Can you ensure that these changes to standards and standards, even if they are intended to be short-term, will not occur without the consent of the social partners? I've already sent you this question. Now I'm just adding: Will you take steps and gain the opinion of those experts into account if you accidentally make changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much for that question. You said that there are changes, who also says that these changes are happening in secret or that we are preparing them in secret at the Ministry, but these changes are made because we send them to social partners because we are discussing them with directors, parents, unions and so on that we are making changes just by something happening in our ministry, because at the end of the ministry we have to try to respond to things that are happening and also to mediate that the reduction of costs in education would not have too severe consequences. With regard to the standards and standards in the field of kindergartens you are asking about, we remain committed to social dialogue and remain committed to the legal provision with which we need to coordinate the amendments to standards and standards, as well as to the strike agreement, which says that we must first try to change standards and standards to resolve or agree on them within the framework of the social agreement. You're asking what's supposed to happen to a teacher who's supposed to be working in two departments and so on. Let me explain that we have proposed changes in the area of kindergartens because we have been asked by the proposer of this law, what options do we all see for municipalities and, as a result, parents to have slightly lower costs with kindergartens. We've listed a few suggestions. One of these suggestions was that one educator would work 3 hours a day with one group of children in kindergarten and 3 hours a day with another group of children in kindergarten. When two adults were with their children, they would be two helpers or less qualified workers. One suggestion was also to increase the number of children in kindergarten by one or two children and to extend by a maximum of half an hour per day the time spent by professional staff in kindergarten, of course, all within a 40-hour worker. It was a set of measures. These measures were discussed with those who were willing to talk, first with the congregations, school principals, parents, and even with the profession. And in the course of these measures, they thought this measure was the most problematic in one, three hours in the second section, and we also then advised them to move forward or withdraw it. There are some other proposals that we are still talking about. It is not about any dramatic change in the conditions of child care, it is about one or two more children, it is about 15 to 30 minutes more work with children by educators. These are professionals, both in our ministry and elsewhere, and we have looked deep within a better group of countries of the European Union when we compare ourselves according to such standards. This is a relatively small intervention, but with which we will achieve some savings. As I said today, we don't turn the system upside down, we don't work from chicken farm kindergarten, it's about 5 to 10% change. And everything stays within the norm. Also this change to be a child or two more in the group, of course only if the spaces in this kindergarten are large enough. Normativa, which tells us how many square meters must be available for each child in kindergarten, does not touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I don't blame you when you talk, one or two kids in the department anymore, that's something small and so on, because you don't know this job. I'm sure you weren't in kindergarten, and I did this work both in kindergarten and with the youngest in first grade, in second grade and so on. You know, one child doesn't mean one problem anymore. One child can mean ten, one hundred and so many more problems in cooperation with the other children. The child comes into social contact with every child in the group and there may be major conflicts, different situations and so on. You can't just pull economics up here, just one kid up or down. That's not true. So I asked you if you would get opinions from experts in teaching sciences, social sciences and so on. When we talk about such important matter as children, we cannot just wave our hand and talk about the economic short-term effect. This economic short-term impact can have very severe consequences, for this can leave a large number of children at home because they get sick, have such problems and will leave parents at home. And this will be known as a deficit in the economy. If you're going into these changes, you have to first figure out where we are. So once again, I ask you: What do you want to achieve with the changes – what savings, what quality? How do you want to achieve your goals, so different paths? How long will the process go on and on what population do you want to do these changes? It's just one simple path that every researcher knows. You probably know that. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u166	Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Look, the profession is divided here. When you talk about one child or two more children in kindergarten, not only do we decide what the situation will be for those other 10 children who are already in the group, but we also talk about whether a child will be in kindergarten or a child will be at home. It turns out that the maximum number of children involved in kindergarten and also the population, the number of children involved in preschool education has grown in recent years, and this is quite right. This also makes them better prepared, more socialised at school. On the one hand, we have the question whether to have fewer children with a higher standard or more children with a slightly lower standard. However, as regards the ratio between the number of children and the number of adults in kindergartens, it must be concluded that only four countries in the world have this relationship better than Slovenia. In the vast majority of countries, there is not so much fear of having groups of children in kindergarten. I really only went to a small school, but my generation, when my peers went to kindergarten, there were 30 of them in the group, and I don't think they'd follow that pattern now. I also had a daughter in kindergarten, and I am actually very grateful to all of her teachers, assistants, etc., for having had a good childhood through this. It is also about enabling and increasing the number of children who have the opportunity to attend kindergartens with, of course, a constant amount of money. Our interest, our interest, as I would say, governments, states, my ministry is certainly not that these savings in kindergartens are happening. Our interest would be, yes, to increase the number of children, but also to increase the number of kindergartens, the size of kindergartens, the number of employees, etc. The municipalities will have to decide whether they want something to take away from them, to realize in kindergartens, and in this we have said that we see this to be done in kindergartens, or whether the municipalities will decide to make savings on, I don't know, roads, communes, lighting and other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Also a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you, Minister. First of all, I would like to say that, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to have a general discussion on this answer. Look, Mr. Minister, I'm glad that this is also about what we've both somehow indicated is one quality solution and it's about children. You said the profession was divided. It is therefore important not to rush here in this change, that there is a need for gradualness, that an analytical assessment is needed, that assessments of one profession, another profession should be obtained and that we can decide only then. We're not talking about left or right options here. These children who are now in kindergarten are children of all. They're as much your children as they are ours. Therefore, we need to think about it and do everything that is good and good for them. Look, like you said, we're right on top. Of course we're happy. Your child, my child, has gone through this training, why don't the other kids who are the youngest today go. And that is why we are so successful in Slovenia. That is why we record success and our children record success, Mr Minister, and we don't have to wave with our hands here and move. Children are successful because they had quality education, both in preschool and in primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. We're starving.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, Slovenian exports have been the main factor or promoter of our economy all these years. The latest data are somewhat worrisome, as exports have increased during the third quarter and are further reduced year-on-year. Exports represent, according to Slovenia's gross domestic product for 2011, when at current prices the social gross domestic product amounted to EUR 36 billion, about 56% or exports amount to 20.5 billion in 2011. According to Ipes, 57 thousand economic operators with around 450 000 employees generated 77 billion income in 2011 and about 20.5 billion or 21 billion of these exports. As the gross domestic product will decrease by 1.4% in 2013 following the autumn forecast of Umarje since September 2011, some others predict even 2%, according to this forecast exports plus 1.9%, imports minus 1%, private consumption minus 3.6% and government consumption minus 6.9%, and gross investment in fixed assets plus 1.3%, the change in stocks is almost zero. The question is whether we can increase Slovenia's exports to 80% of gross domestic product, which means around 28 billion exports at the annual level, which means increasing exports from 22 in 2012, if it is 22, by 6 billion. This would be an approximate level of all small economies in Europe 27, Ireland, Malta, Slovakia, Estonia. Where they have a similar economy as us, exports account for about 80% of the social gross product. What short- and long-term measures should be taken to achieve these objectives? That's why I'm asking you: What measures are or will be taken by your ministry to stop the decline in exports and increase exports by 20% and 28 billion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for this matter. The macroeconomic indicators have indeed deteriorated in recent months, and international trade has also declined. According to Umar, exports, which until this year was a major factor in the weak recovery of the Slovenian economy, were reduced for the second time in a third quarter, mainly due to the deterioration of economic trends in the main trading partners, with modest growth recorded in our main trading partners only in Germany and France, and in other countries or in the environment of the euro we even recorded a decline in economic activity. The decline in exports can only take place at this point in the fall of economic activity in the countries in which the Slovenian economy exports, but it should be stressed that we are still in the cumulative in 2012 by one percentage point higher than in last year 2011, which is not negligible and yet this is positive. However, I agree with you that trends are not the best at this time. The Chamber of Commerce also published the following information, which is interesting. Last year, Slovenian exporters exported nearly 20.5 billion goods, even more than in the 2008 record year, when this was slightly less than 20 billion, 19.8 billion. With more than 86% of exports to the markets of the European Union and the former Yugoslavia, exports to fast-growing markets currently negotiating the global economy were negligible. The fact that only about one hundred of Slovenia's most important exporters generate almost 60% of total exports, that about six companies realize more than 85% of the total Slovenian exports and that out of eleven thousand registered Slovenian exporters are more than nine thousand such, who export only to the markets of the former Yugoslavia, is of course worrying. Our export orientation is, of course, not the best. The lower exports are also undoubtedly due to the reduced international activities of Slovenian companies and it is not just the failure of the government to act in this case. That's just a confession to make. As mentioned above, activities in our traditional foreign markets are falling, domestic and foreign consumption is declining, and all of this results in lower international trade and consequently lower exports. In 2012, after the adoption of the State budget, the government carried out activities in the field of internationalisation, many, co-financing of international fairs, market research, education, the operation of business clubs, implementation of economic delegations, maintenance of web portals and the like and will also successfully implement them by the end of the 2012 budget, those not yet. With these activities, the government has been supporting Slovenian companies in international business for several years and therefore wants to increase exports. Activities have been successfully completed and over 90% achieved. Which I think is important to look forward to or next year, if you want. However, together with all stakeholders, we have identified through the MI 13 strategic document targeted markets, with which we will try to work more systematically at all levels next year. We have defined six markets outside the European Union, of course, because the markets of the European Union are, as we see, in some ways domestic markets. We have therefore identified the following: Russia, Turkey, China, India, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan. So the markets with which we will be much more systematic next year, and that all stakeholders working in the field of internationalisation, from the Chambers to the new Spirit agency, to the ministers, the Prime Minister, the President of the State, I hope, systematically with some frequency of visits in these countries, will try to achieve some follow-up, some continuation of the activity, not only that the visit itself takes place, but that, in fact, Slovenian companies take something away from this visit. We've had some successful visits, some less, and we'll try. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u174	Time's up, but I guess you'll have a chance. Here you are, Mr Stepišnik, a desire to complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you so much for this part of the answer, but I don't know if we got along. I would like to take measures to increase exports for what will turn out at home. Or, to put it domestically, it is about halting the decline in economic growth. Because of the poorer situation in the domestic market, companies will produce about five to six billion less. This could be compensated if we brought on export to increase its revenues by five and six billion. It's this script. In my view, the short-term export companies in charge would need ongoing servicing of the financing of operating assets. Small, medium and large businesses, which you yourself have listed as few, can obtain more jobs if they have saved their funding. In this way, it would need, for example, an SID of a bank of about one billion to lend assets. However, in the medium and long term, European funds, which are particularly significant for the second year, are around €800 million, to accelerate development and research, and to strengthen human resources across businesses, in order to create more and faster innovative products and services that will boost international competitiveness, higher levels of added value and generate technological investment, thus creating new jobs. An increase in exports to 80% of GDP would compensate for the loss of income on the domestic market and stabilise the decline in GDP. A government deficit would be manageable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u177	I don't know, but I think the government, the ministers and everyone we're invited to do so can be very helpful in opening doors abroad to increase exports. And that's what we're doing. That is why I am telling you that I think it is even more important that we talk about this document that I have mentioned so many times. Because there was no systematics so far. The President of the country flew to one end of the world, the Prime Minister to the other end of the world, and then there was nothing more. In this way, there is no way to do a serious job abroad. Several visits should be made, some economic delegations. There must be a number of events so that the company in that market can account for some real business. Business doesn't happen overnight. You know that. You have to go again and again and again and again. And we will try to ensure that through this strategic document. I don't know if we're gonna make it. I'll try to work myself in this direction. You must have heard, and I personally engaged myself in trying to open doors to Slovenian companies in this segment alone for the automotive industry. It wasn't hard for me to go there, there, there. And I'm gonna go. Slovenia has not done this so far, and has missed much at this point, especially in foreign direct investment. I'm sorry. If my predecessors, perhaps one of the heads of government, were to do this to these large corporations, the government presidents are talking, unfortunately, it would probably be different in Slovenia at this point, and in Maribor, where its time stood there, today it could be another factory and there would be a thousand, two thousand new employees. A lot of businesses would be involved. But we didn't do it. I'm gonna keep doing this. As far as funding is concerned. However, funding is still a problem, and this is what we are talking about at the daily level. We are not talking about the establishment of a bad bank and the rehabilitation of the banking system, but in order to encourage funding so that the companies you are talking about can obtain the operating resources. They just can't get to the assets at this point. I'm sorry. In rounding up, it should be added that these companies are also heavily indebted and therefore cannot reach funding. They're just going to have to find out in some way. The SID Bank has some instruments, guarantees and so on. Guarantees also for reverse assets, this guarantee law has not been completed in a long time. So they're instruments. However, this needs to be systematically pursued. Until the bank system is repaired, it's gonna be hard. This is the first task and the key task of making financing work. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Also a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I would like to have a general discussion on how to increase exports in 2013. What we have left for 2013 is export activity, infrastructure investment and, of course, technological investment. More than we will do with European funds already in January by motivating the domestic industry, we can expect that in 2013 it will actually end the way we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal, but, as you know, only the Minister's response can be debated by the Rules of Procedure. We continue with the next question to be addressed by Mr Dragan Bosic to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Bogovic, who is absent, but you can ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u181	Nicely greeted! The question relates to catastrophic repairs that have affected people in the Drava basin, mainly lower than Maribor. What is behind this question? When I visited this area, people said that it flooded them in 20 minutes, it was less than half an hour, which sounded pretty illogical, given the fact that there were no abundant rainfall at the time, and given the fact that the flow, when the precipitation was centuries old, was less than a thousand cubic meters in 1965. And then I added to this thinking the findings on the water days in Maribor, these are the so-called Mishič days, with a colleague having no connection, I suppose, and there experts expressed these doubts as legitimately doubting that something had to happen to the prison regulation. My question to the Minister goes this way: What was the communication with the Austrian authorities during the flood? Were we timely informed about the opening, the closure of prisons, and did the Minister request an interstate management report from Drava? I think we owe these people who have been hit by the floods that we owe them or that it's the least we owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your question. The next is Dr. László Göncz, who also has a question for the absent Minister, Mr Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! Since Mr Bogovich is not here, I will only take the essence of the matter. First of all, I want to ask him: Is the Ministry planning to prepare or upgrade legislation briefly on limiting the emissions of unpleasant smells, in particular from the point of view of the operation of biogas plants and other similar industrial plants? The answers to such questions so far have always said that legislation is flawed or even absent in a given segment, which is not satisfactory for citizens and even less for those directly affected. We know that countries where this issue is fairly well settled are, but there are also cases where, unfortunately, it is not, but we probably should not have to imitate those. Despite the absence of the Minister, I ask him: Will anything in this area change for the better in a relatively short time? In due course, will we be able to come up with an appropriate legal basis? And since certain biogas plants even plan to expand their activities, I also ask: Is there an up-to-date control of emissions containing formaldehyde? In this regard, I expect answers from the Minister orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your question and also for your initiative, you will receive an oral answer at the next meeting. Next is Branko Ficko, who also has a question for Minister Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u185	The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Bogovic, concerning the sugar factory in Ormož. This factory, more known as "sucker" or "sucker factory", as the only sugar factory in Slovenia stopped sugar production in the marketing year 2006-2007, in the Janšev mandate. The owners' decision was a complete cessation of production and also a loss of quota for sugar production. Today, at rising sugar prices, it turns out that the decision to completely stop sugar production in Slovenia was wrong. The original 2007 restructuring plan, endorsed by the government of Janez Janša or Minister Lukačič, provided for the complete removal of production facilities, which also meant an additional 25% of the funds. "Cukerca" owned by the Dutch company thus already received a total of EUR 34 million for the implementation of the plan, and the payment of the total amount was also approved by the Agency for Agricultural Markets. In August 2008, the Ministry of Agriculture, under the leadership of Iztok Jarc, approved the amendment of the plan and allowed part of the production capacity to be maintained. As early as 2010, European auditors pointed out that production failures had been observed during their visit, and after the European inspection in May 2011, there was also a visit by agricultural inspectors who made a similar assessment. This is because the owner should receive significantly less money in liquidation if the objects they have not removed are used for another activity today. Due to this partial retention of production capacity, the European Commission is demanding too much €8.7 million from Slovenia. According to some estimates, Slovenia will also very likely have to repay this money, but at the same time there is no way to recover it from the Dutch partner or owner because the bank guarantee has already fallen. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How will this story unfold according to his assessment, and how will he act if the scenario is not implemented? Who will be responsible for the wrong decisions, the wrong decisions, the heavy 8.7 million euros, in the first Janšev mandate? Of course, I expect an answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you for the question, also for the initiative, your question will be placed on the agenda of the next meeting and you will receive an oral answer. Mrs Patricia Schulin will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u187	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Dear Minister of Health, in Slovenia we know a system of compulsory vaccination for children defined by the Law on Infectious Diseases. Compulsory vaccination of children is paid from the public budget and is a free service for the user. Despite the increasing evidence of harmful vaccines and the lack of evidence of their actual effectiveness, the vaccination of children against infectious diseases in Slovenia remains mandatory. If such informed parents wanted to protect their child from a potentially dangerous vaccine and refused vaccination, they would be in violation of the law, sanctioning or penalizing it. Vaccination can only be discontinued for medical reasons. As early as 2002, Sweden had abolished the last compulsory vaccination, thus allowing its inhabitants full freedom of choice. In almost all countries of the European Union, compulsory vaccination is almost unknown, voluntary vaccination is introduced in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Estonia, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, Greece and also in northern Italy. Vaccination is also voluntary in Switzerland, Great Britain, Ireland, Australia and Japan. In these countries, vaccination is also free of charge, and health care also recommends it, and every citizen can freely decide for himself or his or her minor children that vaccination or vaccination is totally free to refuse and therefore do not suffer any negative sanctions. I ask the Minister of Health: Will and when will the Law on Infectious Diseases be amended in our country to introduce voluntary vaccination of children, as has been done in most countries of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u188	Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you for asking. It should be known that vaccination is certainly the best public health measure to prevent certain diseases and that we have achieved excellent results in the field of vaccination against diphtheria, measles, polio. By not having the information I have, we do not have any younger people suffering from the consequences of these vaccinations. The high cross-section of the population is certainly also a future goal. In the future, the aim remains to maintain compulsory vaccination in terms of the State's obligation to provide vaccines and to finance vaccinations. On the other hand, I can understand the concerns of those who do not want to expose their children to vaccination because of possible side effects. I have also received an initiative which has collected several thousand signatures against this obligation or, above all, against sanctions. Our proposal will also go in the direction of lifting these sanctions. At the same time, however, I think that pediatricians will also have to take a little more responsibility and, in explaining their duty, the benefits of vaccination, which are significantly greater than they could possibly have, and in fact, vaccination is, once again, a public health emergency for the protection of the health of children and later adults. Thus, you can expect this amendment or amendment of this law to be made sometime in the first half of the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jože Velinja has a question for two ministers: the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Cernač, and the Minister for Finance, Dr Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Union of Workers of Energy Activities of Slovenia signed an agreement on the Slovenian State Holding Act at the end of October this year. The Government also took note of this agreement and agreed with the content. In this agreement, the ministries, in their social dialogue with the Energy Union, have also committed themselves to following, at the time of adoption of the sectoral energy strategy in the Government, the sharing of profits to ensure the financing of investment projects by energy companies in a way that will allow for a suitable investment cycle. Recently, the government has decided to take out Eles and HSE for 20 million Euros of last year's balance sheet profit and for Gen to even 37 million Euros of surplus from previous years. If we consider the politicisation of the supervisory boards of these electricity companies on their replacement, the administrations of these companies have publicly pointed out the harmful consequences of this behaviour. However, the consequences for the long-term investments of these companies will be even worse. Today, too, we would like to point out that Slovenia's strategic interest should be to provide sustainable and secure energy supply to the country and that it should be the responsibility of the country as owners of energy companies, that it also pursues the reconstruction and development of new production capacities through its own policy, in line with the economy of business and domestic energy resources. I therefore ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space and the Minister for Finance: How do they argue the appropriateness of redirecting the annual profits of these energy companies into budget charging and not to the development of the energy sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u192	First of all, Dr. Schusterschitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u193	Nicely greeted! As we all know, state ownership has multiple functions. One is the one you mentioned yourself, that is to maintain or provide some sustainable supply even in the long run. The second is that the State as owner, like all owners, participates in the business result of the companies it owns. In view of the situation in which electricity is on the one hand and on the other, the State budget, we have estimated that the damage to electricity is smaller at this point than it would be to the budget or to those which should otherwise be forced by additional measures to participate in the balancing of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u194	And Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much for that question. The words used were that the country took profits that could not be invested in development and so on. Let me say that a small part of this profit has been transferred. In the HSE group, this profit from past years was over €360 million – undistributed. For dividends 20 million were transferred, which is less than 10 % of this profit. In Eles over 60 million — 20 million profits transferred. In Gen over 140 million euros in profits, of which 37 profits have been transferred. This is a business that has a rather high investment potential that needs to be exploited to the fullest extent possible and has not been fully exploited in the past. Because this investment potential has not been used to the full for such or other reasons, it is also part of the reasons at the level of the country and in putting individual infrastructure projects into space and part of the problems is also at the level of efficient, cost-effective and ambitious governance of these companies. Because if some administration allows itself, say, in the case of Eles, to plan to build a new business building in this recession for more than EUR 20 million, then this is not in line with some long-term energy strategy and, of course, such ideas had to be prevented. Not only through the transfer of this profit for other, more important purposes, but also through the need to put investment in the provision of new infrastructure projects at the forefront and beyond in ensuring the country's long-term energy stability. In this context, it has been transferred, historically speaking, a small proportion of the profits of these companies, which cannot in any case jeopardise their future operations, but in particular cannot jeopardise the future investments we anticipate in this energy field.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Do you have any other wishes to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you. With regard to the agreement concluded between the Energy Union and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, I have already called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be able to sell the most profitable part of Slovenian energy. The preparation and signing of this agreement has clearly overlooked the fact that the management of the country's capital investments remains the responsibility of the AUKN through the capital investment management strategy and the annual management plan. These two documents were neither accepted by the Government nor by the National Assembly. Last week I received a response from the Government, rejecting my allegations of exceeding the powers and powers of the signatories to the agreement, which ensured the Government to withdraw its first request for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding. The clarification was clear when the Slovenian State Holding Act was implemented, and the Minister will propose the sale of the maximum agreed shares of energy companies in terms of agreement and sectoral policies. The key issue of this agreement is still: Is it appropriate for the country to withdraw from the most profitable part of Slovenian energy, namely the Geoplina, as part of the company that will manage the South Stream in Slovenia, the HSE as the other owner of the Drava Power Plants and the Gen Energy Plant, which, among other things, is co-owner of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. That was an additional question, but apparently the minister will still answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u199	I am happy to answer that question because I think I have listened to this question for the third or fourth time. The unions ask what they asked us to do when they started negotiating with us. What did they ask us to do? They came and said they wanted to ensure that Slovenian energy would not be sold out. They understand this agreement as a guarantee that Slovenian energy will not be sold out. That is why I am always surprised to hear the exact opposite interpretation of this agreement, which says that the agreement promises unions that Slovenian energy will be sold out. If they take him for granted, that's what they were after. I don't know why they think if the state owns that they're going to keep their jobs, but if it's a private owner, they won't. I don't think that's true. If companies do bad things, they will have no jobs, no matter who owns them, and if they do good, they will have no jobs, but there will be more jobs. But that's what they think, and we're going to the opposite. If they think that this has ensured that the state will retain the control percentage, then let them try to understand as they do. If you look at the table, you will see that for most – except in one case – the country’s share is set to more than 50%. This is not only a controlling share, it is a dominant share, which means that the one who, as an investor, enters this company brings money to a company still controlled by the State. I don't know if anyone's going to be so prone to the risk of doing that. I'll be happy if it does, because this will help fund investment projects. But certainly the country will still control these companies through 50 and in most cases an even higher share. With regard to the excess of powers: in this agreement we did not write that we would sell it; we did not write that we promised the unions that we would privatize or anything like that – such unions would probably come into history as the first trade unions to force the country into privatisation, by the way – but we were only aware that as a government we would propose on the basis of the SDH law when it will, when it will be, when it will. – you know more about this – established, then we will propose a classification of the National Assembly by which these shares will be made. That's all we've been committed to, and that's the government's jurisdiction. But if you say no, then you'll say no, but you'll explain to the unions why you think it's better.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Also a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u201	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the answers of both ministers be discussed in general on my question. The fundamental issue of these answers remains that we have heard, on the one hand, what profits of these companies we are discussing and, on the other hand, for the same companies, the sale of half of the share or even a quarter share is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! About one year ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established the Social Entrepreneurship Council. I'm not going to list the warrants that you're familiar with. I note, however, that despite its legal obligation, the world is late in the preparation of a strategy and measures. Given that the strategy should be in line with the European Union's financial perspective 2014-2020, it would be appropriate to develop strategic objectives by 2020. I'd like to know: When can we expect strategies and action programmes for the development of the social entrepreneurship sector? The practice has also shown that while the Social Entrepreneurship Act has been in force since 1 January 2012, there are still many administrative obstacles in the form of a legal framework which makes it impossible to play an equivalent role in the various legal forms of social enterprises in the economic area of Slovenia and therefore puts social enterprises in an unfavourable position to access all measures to promote entrepreneurship as provided for in the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment. I'd like to explain: What exactly, if anything, is happening with the social entrepreneurship project? At what stage is the preparation of a social entrepreneurship strategy and measures? Will the strategy be in line with the financial perspective I mentioned earlier? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u205	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. Let me reassure you that there's a lot of work going on here. The working group is expected to draw up a draft strategy within a few days by the end of this year. The Social Entrepreneurship Council, which was appointed in the revised composition, formed in August 2012 and approved in the final composition in October 2012, will deal with this and then submit the strategy for approval by the Government. You can expect this in the coming months. In short, the matter is relatively far away. However, I must point out that some 70 additional proposals have already been put forward by members of the previous Council on the draft of this strategy and that there was a considerable interest here, which is why this is not so simple. It is doing a lot, and I hope that we will be able to confirm this in the government as soon as possible at the beginning of next year. Under this strategy, a programme of actions for a two-year period will also be established. This action programme will be prepared at the Ministry of Labour in cooperation with the other ministries responsible for social entrepreneurship activities. These are nine of all 11 ministries. Will the strategy be in line with the financial perspective? Of course! We agree that the emerging strategy must be built in accordance with Slovenia's established operational programmes for cohesion funds and Structural Funds. The Ministry has already proposed social entrepreneurship for inclusion in the Cohesion and Structural Funds operational programme under the European Union's multiannual financial framework. The European Commission has also indicated in Slovenia's proposals for prioritisation that it is a social entrepreneurship and has positioned it as part of entrepreneurship and emphasises an enabling environment for the creation and development of social enterprises. As regards the observation or finding that practice shows a series of administrative obstacles, this would probably apply to the Minister of Economy, as part of the support environment for entrepreneurship in particular is the case there. However, these obstacles, which relate to the Social Entrepreneurship Act or part of its competence, as well as to the rest of it, will be addressed by this Council and will also propose appropriate measures. We're aware of these problems that you're mentioning. The project is developing, it is producing, of course, it also has childhood diseases. It's only right that we detect them and eliminate them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin's question for the Minister of Defence, Mr Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the other ministers and, of course, the present Members! The confusion that the Government is causing by shaking down, if I say so, the blame for the protests on all sides, must be ended in some way and the culprits – read, the bullies – should be precisely located, especially if there is information that the soldiers were among the bullies. That's why I'm asking you: Were the members of the Slovenian Army who were detained in recent demonstrations only individuals who attended demonstrations or were part of organised groups that caused violent riots at demonstrations? Did the Slovenian Armed Forces cooperate with the police in ensuring public order and peace? How? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u208	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. First of all, as a minister and as a citizen, I condemn all violence, and I have repeatedly said that after the violence in Maribor and Ljubljana. According to the information received by the General Police Administration, several members of the Slovenian Army have also appeared among the members or subjects detained by the police. Specifically, these were three members of the Maribor protests and one member of the Ljubljana protests. None of them, or any of them, were criminally informed, and all of them were fined for a misdemeanor against public order and peace. On the basis of these relevant facts, we have acted immediately – here I must make it clear that all four of them are from different parts of Slovenia, all four are in different units of the Slovenian Armed Forces and all four of them participated as citizens, i.e. in civilian suits, two of them even during their holidays, and none of them during their work, i.e. at a time when they are in the Slovenian Army. We have also looked at the matter from the point of view of the intelligence and security service: none of these four have ever been perceived as a possible actor or as a possible associate of any extremist group, and all four have acted on their own. This is, of course, an act, although it is only a violation of public order and peace, even in the light of the Slovenian Armed Forces Code and the reputation that the Slovenian Armed Forces have in the Slovenian space, is unacceptable, so we have already begun disciplinary proceedings against all four of us. I cannot say how these disciplinary procedures will end if the proceedings find that the problem was not only a violation of the military code, but more than that, these members will be duly sanctioned, if necessary, by the loss of a job. But I wouldn't want to condemn anyone from this point of view in advance. I think it's right that things actually clear up. Of course, it is inappropriate and again I emphasise, it is inappropriate for members of the Slovenian Army to participate violently in the function – even though such demonstrations are at the time only in the function of an ordinary citizen. As Minister of Defence, however, I was interested in how many of those violent people who participated in these violent demonstrations as bullies, but I am, for example, talking to teachers, professors, doctors. All of these by status are equal to Slovenian soldiers, all of them are public servants, although I do not defend this opinion that the army is in the system of public servants, but still. On the second part of your question, however, I must say that, of course, the Slovenian Army has no powers, not by the constitution, nor by law, to participate in such demonstrations or in the protection of public order and peace. These powers have never been abused by the Slovenian Army before, so it has not abused them in this case, and I can assure you that they will not be abused in the future. With regard to the issue of police cooperation with the Slovenian Army in relation to demonstrations, of course – although we are extremely well involved with the police, and with regard to demonstrations, I can only say that, on the basis of a request from the General Police Administration, we have borrowed or reversed the police administration, I think that 80 personal protective kits are sets that protect the body, hands, legs and are not marked with Slovenian Army emblems – given that both military and police have the same protective equipment, so we use the same protective equipment as the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much. A complement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u211	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I must say that I am pleased with most of your answer. I don't agree with you just in the part where you mentioned some other professions. In fact, we know that according to the law, members of the Slovenian Army should not strike and it is a bit unusual if they cannot strike that they can demonstrate. So it's really a little strange that they're at work this morning, where they're supposed to keep the constitutional order, and they can be at demonstrations that are destroying this same order this afternoon. So this comparison is not entirely appropriate. On the other hand, I am pleased with your reply, in addition to saying that there are many misinformation or misrepresentations in the public eye, the fact that, three weeks ago, the Chief of Staff attended a crisis meeting with the President of the Government. Because of the facts you mentioned at the end of your reply, this is unusual. It is also unusual that at some secret location, an eminent member of the Slovenian Armed Forces, said to be using a service car, is being obtained with the Prime Minister of the Government at a conspiracy meeting. Even if it is a society, there is no need to hide it and it can be done in some way in public. I mean, it's often the government and the military itself that's causing these rumors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u213	Dear Member, thank you for this – I don't know if it was a question, but perhaps the opinion you said. I must say, I absolutely agree with you, especially in the first part. It is unusual for me, too, that Slovenian soldiers can walk through demonstrations, given that they are not allowed to strike, and I will be extremely pleased with your support next year if we can bring such a position into law. Imagine if I or the Chief of Staff would issue any instructions, or a notice, or a recommendation, if nothing else, where I would command the Slovenian soldiers or ask them not to demonstrate. So they have the same rights as all other citizens. In this legal order, this cannot be done on the basis of this defence law – I do not repeat myself, but I will be extremely pleased if we can change this in the Defence Act. As for the crisis meeting you mentioned, which should have been with the President of the Government or should not have been with the President of the Government, I must say that I was invited to this crisis meeting, unfortunately I was abroad at the time, so I could not have attended it for that reason, or I would have attended it. This was the case, and I have already explained in public that the President wanted to know how warehouses, especially explosives, were protected, both in the field of the military and in the area of protection and rescue. I must say that, on the basis of this meeting, we have introduced an extraordinary audit of the inspectorate, who immediately looked at every warehouse, to determine whether the unexploded mine assets arriving in our warehouses on a daily basis – given that these assets are very large in Slovenia – are in number; so whether there are as many as they must be before they go into destruction; or whether all the insurance of our warehouses are appropriate. I must tell you that as far as the army and the Department of Protection and Rescue are concerned, these matters have been completely covered and all things count. I must say that there has been a so-called forced settlement for several years — whether bankruptcy or whatever we call it — of companies in Kamnik, which you know also has an extremely large number of explosive means, that there has been an accident there several times, and according to our assessment those things are insufficiently secured. Since then, the company has also put in place additional police protection to avoid any abuse or similar. As far as the meeting you are mentioning is concerned, I must say that a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces, i.e. the Brigadier, who is at work with us, also participated in this meeting. It was a meeting of the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence. As I know, it was no secret or conspiracy meeting, but it was a meeting, given that certain people gathered there, that the media created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Pišek, the question for the absent Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Vice President, nice greetings to ministers, colleagues, colleagues! My question also relates to the latest catastrophic floods and the consequences of these floods in the Drava basin and elsewhere, when there were around or over 200 million direct damage to private property, public property, owned by legal entities. He has already asked the question in part – regarding cooperation between Slovenia and Austria and the Austrian correct conduct. But I'll ask the Minister the following questions myself. I want to know: Were watercourses in Slovenia, especially in the area mentioned, in time and properly maintained, which would prevent the floods we witnessed? Second part of the question: If they weren't, who's responsible? Has it already joined the plans to deal with the issue further? I would also like to know, on the basis of the data I have to predict the construction of an anti-floating embankment, what this mound will mean for the neighbouring municipalities, and whether we will not simply transfer the problem to another area. So the question is: What are the comprehensive solutions and what measures are envisaged to avoid such a disaster? In what time can we count on performance? What are the restrictions on Nature 2000? I thank the Minister in advance for his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you for your question. The next is Matjaž Zanoškar, who has a question for Minister Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Zvonko Černač! To raise a question concerning the reorganisation of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, I was encouraged by the fact that the information I have obtained by the employees of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia is from the media reporting on this, and the main information is also the Council of the Koro Region, where the mayors and mayors of the Koroška region strongly protested against the planned reorganisation of the Geodetic Authority or the Regional Geodetic Administration in Slovenj Gradec. This is not only about the Regional Geodetic Authority in Slovenj Gradec, it is also evident that there are still some regional geodetic administrations such as the Administration in Sevnica, Ptuj, Velenj and Slovenj Gradec. These intentions are certainly very sensitive to Korosice and Korosca, because there are many cases where a state institution has moved out of Koroška, which has not last given the conditions for employment. Finally, it has given a good standard to all living there, so any such information about the intention to abolish another state institution is very difficult to reverberate; and it has also been difficult to reverberate. At this point, we don't know what we're dealing with, so I'm asking you a question: What's true and what isn't? The Director-General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Alojz Seliškar, was supposed to prepare this reorganisation, to have it in his drawer, to wait for your consent and then launch it into reality. Let me say that in this case also the eviction of the Regional Geodetic Authority from Koroška to Maribor would be presented or shown in a very negative light at Korošice and Korošci, i.e. all living there, because you know that in such a case some of Koroška should drive 100 kilometers away from Maribor and provide their services there. In addition, I think your coalition treaty is also talking about your efforts against centralisations, which probably wouldn't be exactly what your coalition contract would have been. Otherwise, let me also say that the Government was informed on the last visit to Koroška that the outflows of all these institutions are evident. We could say that today there is something or at least a hundred jobs less because of moving from Koroška to Celje or other centres, which is not good for Koroška in addition to everything else. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u218	Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. No reorganisation is intended for itself, and the objective of any reorganisation is not to make the situation worse in the field in which this reorganisation is taking place. This is also the case in the case of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Decisions have not yet been taken, reorganisation is under way, it is being prepared. It was triggered by delays, due to inadequate organisation in terms of area-specific tasks, due to rationalisation of operations and, above all, to ensure that individual claims are resolved in an optimal manner and to remedy delays in some areas in this last period. The number of cases resolved by individual staff also shows that the current burden of district geodetic administrations on the number of employees and on the individual staff member’s matters, that these burdens are very different, that there are quite large differences between individual administrations and also between individual service providers or employees. In short, the purpose of this organisation is to improve the functioning of bringing services closer to people, which will result in new internal organisational units being formed by reorganisation when it comes to them. The location in which the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia is operating today will remain unchanged, which means that, in terms of accessibility to geodetic services, this service will remain unchanged from the point of view of the people in need of these services.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mag. Stefan Tisel, question for Minister Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u221	All good greetings, Madam Vice President, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The fact is that in recent years more attention has been paid, in particular financial, Slovenian motorways, to the so-called Slovenian Highway Cross, which is practically built, which is also reflected in greater traffic safety and greater accuracy. Less funding for state roads and highways is known as some long - term damage or failure to meet needs, and these roads have somehow been lagging far behind. Some are still macadamian, some are narrow and dangerous, and to a large extent long-lasting and necessary thorough rehabilitation. New constructions are also planned and placed in development programmes, but are waiting for a more favourable time to finance. Many road projects move from year to year from budget to budget, even if work has already begun, many have survived the collapse, so is the bankruptcy of construction companies. Many roads are also more destroyed because they were used in the construction of motorways and in the reconstruction of railway infrastructure. There are often difficulties in buying land, skating prices allow more money to be bought and less left for construction. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: What criteria will you use for the maintenance, modernisation and reconstruction of state roads, which are far behind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much for this question, which I have to say, has been emerging for quite some time and will probably be appearing for quite some time because there will be a need for all modernisation and for all reconstructions for some time. However, I think that one of the major changes that we want to make in the coming period is that, with the resources we have at our disposal, we will do as much as possible in this area. And if we want to do as much as possible, then it is right to be rational, cost-effective and to devote as much of our resources as possible to making concrete investments and concrete investment projects and to avoid, where possible, numerous, sometimes even unnecessary studies, various laboratories and everything else, which in some ways irritates construction, which does not contribute significantly to better or faster implementation or better quality built. In this way, I think we will act as we have done in the last six months or the last nine months. It has been shown that, for such or other reasons, it is also possible to do more with less resources by means of more cost-effective conduct than originally envisaged. In a variety of sections, individual operations, which constitute greater transport safety, were carried out with less resources than originally envisaged. It is true, however, that in the second segment, where liquidity problems have occurred or the bankruptcy of individual operators, we have witnessed a different situation; that is, the situation that the new contractor, which was to be selected in accordance with the Public Procurement Act with the new tender, was no longer able to be selected at the same price, but usually the price was always higher than the one originally set. I write in my announcement of this question that you are interested in one specific section of one particular road, the regional roads of Dole-Ponikva-Dolga Gora, where this investment project has been opened for some time. This is a major reconstruction of the regional road with the aim of regulating the vehicle and providing the relevant elements of the road. The project is included in the NRP with a certified document, identification of the investment project. Three years ago, a project was designed to carry out a shorter section of this road, from Sela’s intersection to the newly built bridge. Evidence of land use is also obtained for this section. The value of the construction of this section is estimated at €140,000 and an ideal design for the next section has also been developed. However, the value of the total investment is assessed in full from all parts to around €21 million. In view of this investment value, this project is, of course, divided into several stages. In the first section, this measure covers the reconstruction of the road structure, the correction of horizontal and vertical road elements, the arrangements for appropriate drainage, the installation of appropriate transport equipment and signalling. It's the Down-Hot section. In the second part of Hotunje–Ponikva there is a reconstruction of the road structure, correction of horizontal road elements and deviation of the road route, arrangements for appropriate drainage, installation of the relevant transport equipment and signalling. Construction of five buildings, two bridges, two supporting and one supporting structures will also be needed. In the third section of Ponikva-Long Gora-Loče, this measure covers the reconstruction of the road structure, the correction of horizontal and vertical elements and the deviation of the route on two sections, the arrangements for appropriate drainage, the installation of appropriate transport equipment and signalling. The construction of 13 buildings, two bridges, three boxes of failures, two resilient and six support structures is envisaged. In short, given the importance of this project and the amount needed for the entire reconstruction, the timeline will be somewhat longer, but in view of the poor state of this road connection in the coming year, we will accelerate the implementation of this project, especially in view of the state in which it is currently located, and provide additional funds for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go, mag. Tissel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thanks for the answer. It is indeed a specific section of the regional road, this is the regional road of the third order in the area, from Dol to Ponikvi, Dolga Gori and Ločam. In fact, it's a parallel road with a highway, and when the highway was built, this road was pretty much destroyed. It's also about the railroad. When the railway was reconstructed, there was a use of this road and considerable use. At the same time, if this road is better arranged, it will connect these places to the regional centre and it will also be a possible bypass if the highway is closed because there are two tunnels. As an example, I'd say. A civil initiative was set up to reconstruct this road on Ponikva. The instigator was former State Councilman Jožek Korže, who already has good experience as a member of the congregation, for this civil initiative will not hinder and close the road but will help with faster installation or land purchases. It is the state councilman who himself will make his land available free of charge for the example of others, for this is the only way we will be able to build state roads more quickly if the ransom price is appropriate or even if they give way. I think that the priority in other sections would also be appropriate where people are more involved, where they help with both land and other accommodations in space. We also had such a good experience in the congregation of Šentjur, when we prepared ourselves, of course in cooperation with the ministries, a state-level location plan for the bus station or connecting road, which is already in development programmes. So it is my opinion that as a priority it is taken into account where people are more involved, and that, as you have already mentioned, they can then also come easier to build faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u226	Minister Chernač, do you have an additional reply or comment?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u227	There was no further question, but I can also say that on one of the field visits, I had the opportunity to see this connection, along with all the others who are hundreds or thousands of miles away. This connection is really in bad shape. Given that, in one part, the project documentation for this renovation is already ready, and given that the readiness in the local environment, as I hear, is large, I believe that we will all find the possibility that these limited resources we have available to modernise the state road network will be able to be used in the most rational way possible in the coming year, so that we can also speed up the reconstruction in this connection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Komel - Question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Merry Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to all present! For six years, we have been concerned about the border, because our neighbors want to build a gas terminal in the middle of the Gulf. Various Slovenian and Italian institutions have repeatedly objected to potential cross-border impacts, threats to transport and maritime safety, environmental risks, impacts on biodiversity, the fall in tourism and could be listed, but all of this was in vain. After years of planning and protest, the Žavlje gas terminal now received its epilogue when the Italian Environment Minister gave a positive opinion on the construction of the terminal and gas pipeline in the Gulf of Markets. As I have already said many times, tourism is our main source of income, of course I speak for the southern Primorska region, so the construction of an ecological bomb outside our coast is unacceptable. Dear Minister, it is very important for Slovenia to avoid the construction of a gas terminal in the part of Tržaška port in Žavaje, because it is important to realize that with the possible construction of the gas terminal, our tourism could suffer considerable economic damage, as many experts say. That's why I want to know: Has your ministry prepared a special document over the past two years, which has carried out a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the potential construction of a gas terminal on the development of tourism as the main economic sectors on the Slovenian coast and on Crassus, and what are the findings? If such a document has not been made, I ask you: Do you think the Ministry would make such a document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u230	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you very much for that question. Until this time, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has not produced a specific document of the integrated assessment of the impact of the construction of the Žavlje gas terminal on Slovenian tourism in the coast, Slovenia and in Kras. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment from 2008 commissioned by the Ministry of Environment and Space on the gas terminal is described and assessed in section 5.5 on the cross-border impact of the construction and operation of the terminal on Slovenian tourism. The full impact assessment provided for in this document is sufficiently professional and well-founded and therefore the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology does not intend to produce an additional comprehensive environmental impact assessment for tourism in this area of influence. The conclusions of this comprehensive environmental impact assessment of the construction of the terminal in Žavaje on Slovenian tourism are as follows: "Construction of the terminal in Žavaje on the environmental and development parameters of Slovenian tourism on the coast and in Slovenia Istria has no significant impact. The planned terminal in Žavaje is less noticeable in the Slovenian part of the coast due to its location on the Italian coast and therefore has no impact on the subjective experience of tourists on the Slovenian side of the border. A greater impact is likely in the region of the Glinščica River, which is important in terms of two tourist products, recreational and tourism in the area, and less important for the economic activity in the tourism sector." I'm not gonna read this anymore. This is what is stated in this overall environmental assessment of 2008. The conclusions are such as if this has no major impact on Slovenian tourism. However, my personal opinion, if you will, and I have repeatedly expressed this opinion not only in this mandate, but also in the previous mandate, when we fought here for many things, we have also prevented many things at that time, it is that these terminals are absolutely unacceptable for the Gulf of Markets. And I know that the government will do everything in this area to ensure that these terminals are not built. Not only because of tourism, which, according to the profession – I am surprised by this opinion of the profession – does not have much influence, but generally for the environment; for everything that goes on here, for the sea, for the living in this sea. I don't think there's anything to be said about this topic. These terminals don't belong in the Gulf of Markets and you have to put a dot here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the question? There's no need. Here we go, Mrs Alenka Bikar will ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Mr Minister, you've probably noticed that we're always wondering the same questions over and over again, but I don't know if I'm so vague about asking the question or maybe I don't really understand your answers. Anyway, I'd like to ask you again: How are these services that the police will charge to the organizers of the event? The new Regulation is in force on 27 November, but I have no questions about it. So let me first remind you of your answer before the adoption of this Regulation on Supplements to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Public Collections, when you first answered my question, something like this. You said that "it is easy to tie the matter to those sports and other public events, stressing the sports and other public events that sell tickets in order to have clubs, organizers or anyone else's profits. And in those matters, it is the duty of the police to provide basic public order and peace, to ensure transport safety and so on. Of course, we will not count if there will be a fight, because we are obliged to do so, intervention, and so on, but superstandard services, but what are superstandard services will still have to be set up in this Regulation, and they will be payable." So, you stressed that the most important thing is that there will be superstandard services that would otherwise not be necessary if the organiser took all the measures to establish and maintain public order and peace. That's what it's like to be super-standard. You also replied to me again on the Internal Policy Committee, saying: "This comes into account for sports and other events where tickets are sold, where the organizer is actually cashing – according to the local statement where the organizer creates profits – and so on, not for any other event." On this issue, a representative of the police union answered me at the time, saying: "In our proposal to clarify these matters, we have proposed a systematic approach to this issue, so that in the future law on the organisation and work of the police or on police tasks and powers, the powers of the police, i.e. the tasks and responsibilities of the police, and on the basis of this implementing article, an implementing act will be adopted, where it would be very precise to determine what those tasks are performed by the police on official duty and what those tasks are that the police carry out against payment. That's how we'd make a systemic shift." Mr. Minister: Where can I find these criteria or a list of what superstandard services the police will charge? What are those tasks that the police carry out on official duty? It is clear to me that Article 29 of the Law on Public Assembly stipulates that the police are obliged to maintain public order on the occasion of the parades and demonstrations, in the event of major sporting events and in the event of unorganized meetings. What about everything else? Please, if you can give me specific answers for the people who are conducting these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u234	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The Regulation has been adopted, so today is more known than in the time I was responding to you. I'm afraid it won't be enough in five minutes either, you know, to give you an exact answer. So, honestly, without any confusion, I invite you to sit down with the experts, visit us, and really explore every detail. What I can answer now is this. At least as far as sports events are concerned, which you yourself have participated in and have been very successful in representing the state of Slovenia, then, as I recall, nothing will change within the ministry I am currently running. Nothing's gonna change! But if I go in the order of things, I would say: Articles 30 and 31 – and I will try to explain to everyone what I think – the Law on Public Collections are the ones who define it. Even this, and we will never be able to describe all the situations in a catalogue, since even a health manual can have a thousand pages, and it will not describe everything. Let me tell you an example, let me tell you in Kranjska Gora, when we have ski events, is just one event; all that is after the end of the event, because it is actually a village party, with all those vendors there and that one, around the party that follows it, but it's something else, so it's very difficult to list. Look, public road events. If it represents an extraordinary use of the road and if the space according to the event programme changes along the route, say, and the matter has an escort at the beginning and at the end. Sports events for which the organiser or police have well-founded data and information, including through the global network, social networks and so on, on possible violations of the order or threat to the order, or on both sides of the data, have occurred in similar events over the past three years, such as violations. Then there are other events where the police, on the basis of the well-founded data and information they have, assess the need to ensure the presence of the police. Of course, it will not be an issue of issuing accounts in the case of maintenance of public order or peace in cases where the organiser can fully cover it. The legal basis for charging, as I said, is Article 35 of the Law on Public Assembly, but of course the organiser or organiser will be obliged to reimburse the police only in cases where the police are involved in maintaining public order or preventing the threat of public order at events, but not in cases where police cooperation is needed in maintaining order or preventing threats at public meetings. That seems pretty important to me. It also seems important to me that the police, in agreement with the organisers, will determine the required number of police officers to help maintain public order and peace only if, according to the nature of the event, this is expected and the circumstances indicate that the event will, for example, take place in a risky situation and the organiser himself will say that he alone cannot deal with the directors of the matter. Of course, there is another situation, however, if the event organizer does not report or obtain permission, we will still provide [[...]] If I simplify because I believe that you will probably tell me again that it is not possible to understand in this short time of the matter, I will say: we are still staying with these superstandards as those to be determined from case to case. If I go – I will simply say – to where you have worked hard too, it is at the athletic cell stadium or any in Slovenia – nothing will literally change here. Because the police at the stadium actually have nothing to do, because there's nothing to do there, the traffic and the other things will be handled anyway outside the stadium, and I don't think anything will change at these events. But it is true that even if you give me two more minutes, it will probably not be possible to explain in detail, so I sincerely invite you to visit these experts who are involved in this, let us set a date and take an hour of time and clear the whole matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You know, I kind of thought that, because it's not just about me, it's about all the people who organize it. To invite everyone to your home, you probably can't. That's probably why you've been making the rules. This should also be a systemic solution — that is how I understood it. The union representative also said that this rule should be more precise in determining that things would be a little more appropriate, but now I see that they are still quite open, and as you yourself have said, there are still some of these ambiguities. It is clear to me that some athletic rally, probably in one of these competitions, will not be necessary. You can answer that question for me: What about some football game that's really going to happen in the future, if we're already on the case? One more question. I am also interested in the following: What is the positive assessment of the financial implications of this Regulation? What exactly can the police expect from this charge? What effect will this measure have on the state budget, given that statistics on police work for 2011 indicate that the police had data, that there were 74 public meetings in 2011 and as many as 4 thousand 652 public events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I don't have the numbers ready, you haven't asked me either, but basically we can't come from saying that because we're going to do this and we're going to do this, the state budget will be so much richer and richer. I can tell you only in the case of traffic accidents; those where the police do not have to go to the place for minor traffic accidents because they are not to be treated at all, and we go to the place just because insurance companies are more easily charged. Here we now count, I think, 41 euros after such an insight and the revenue of the state budget is 50,000 euros at a monthly level or 600 000 euros at a state level. However, I would stress that our objective is not to fill the state budget. It's another thing, completely different effects. It's a national football game. If you play two teams that, from a risk point of view – football games in a third league or something like that – represent nothing, there will be two police officers, for whom we will not count anything. But if we go to some big football game, let's say one like it was last in Maribor, there. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] So do I. But let's say that we go to some, whatever, sports event as big as a football game and so on, security evaluation is the basis for talking to the organizer. If the security assessment shows that such, such, such and such measures must be taken, so many and so many people, and if the organiser says that they will ensure it themselves – we will find out in the agreement – then there will be no account. However, if the organiser says that and we will ensure that, the security assessment will show that the security risk is too great, we will give the police, however, as much as we think is necessary to ensure minimum security. And in that case, we'll calculate the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u240	So, as you yourself have already said, you have too little time to explain that you need a little more and there is still a lot of confusion, so I would like to see a debate held on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly on the reply of the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We will take this into account and, in accordance with your initiative tomorrow in the framework of the vote, also decide on your proposal for the response of Minister Vinko Gorenak. We move on to the next question. Mr Darko Jazbec asks the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President, and a nice greeting to all ministers and a handful of Members and Members! Now we all know, and everyone knows that on December 4th, a reform of the pension system was somehow adopted. One fundamental element of this reform is the strengthening of the conditions for retirement. Therefore, it should be understood that all those who already qualify for retirement may retire under the same conditions later in the future, and that is why the Institute for Disability and Pension Insurance has already called on employees not to retire too quickly, so that people are not now in panic and all of a sudden all those who can achieve these conditions will go to a short-term pension. The communication of this reform is that it is worth staying active longer, if I understand it correctly; on the other hand, the same government has adopted an already known ZUJF in the same year, where Articles 188 and 246 of the Public Finance Balance Act provides that a contract of employment may be terminated for a public official who fulfils the conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension. So the purpose of these two articles of the ZUJF is faster retirement. You do not like the expression compulsory retirement, although it literally came to them, but perhaps an unplanned or early retirement. Somehow I don't understand how we have two marriages in one year and so immaculate among them. Do you think that the ZUJF in relation to these two articles was a mistake or an inadequate one because there is still a complete opposition to the adopted pension reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u244	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. However, if you go back to paying either wages or pensions to those employed in the public sector: if the payer is, directly or indirectly, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and taxpayers, then you feel that the Public Finance Balance Act, when we have inserted that article – by the way, we are not talking about some early, forced retirement, but only that the employee who meets the conditions for a retirement pension and would receive a pension without deductions to end his employment relationship. This does not mean that he has to retire, he can work anywhere further, especially in the private sector. I want to say that if we go down to who pays for this thing, then it is clear why it is more bearable for the state budget to pay a pension, which is about 60 per cent of the salary, than full salary, because it all comes from public funds and in this context you can understand the proposal why it is in the ZUJF and it is also worth it. We do not want this retirement in this way in the private sector, i.e. where the employer pays the employee's salary; and even more, it also pays him contributions and this full state budget indirectly and directly. Therefore, there is a big difference as to whether a public servant is going to retire, for whose work the chairman also estimates that he is no longer in need, because – even this is the condition that you forgot to mention – so that the chairman of a public servant can assess that a person’s work is no longer needed or that it is not necessarily necessary to continue the work process, then he can trigger the termination of the work relationship. So, purely public finances. Finally, such measures will also later lead to rejuvenation and some replacement in jobs with younger people who will bring some new quality. I think that this measure makes sense both publicly and through generations of changes in public administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u245	Here you go, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u246	I don't want to sell out much, so I haven't forgotten to mention that the chairman is assessing this. I just wanted to be shorter. But no matter who the mercenary is, it's happening in practice to me incomprehensible matters. For example, around 30 doctors have retired from the Maribor University Clinical Centre this year, most of them after the adoption of the ZUJF, something that has been completely unplanned to receive these decisions, without these supervisors who will assess that they do not need them, but now we will not go into it because we will get lost in the question. In short, if I am the director of a public office, this month may happen to me that I have an interview with people whom I can convince that the ZUJF must retire sooner than they planned, and I apologize to them. Then I invite the next one to the meeting that unfortunately they'll have to work longer than he thought. These were also the headlines in the newspaper. Following the adoption of the ZUJF, he wrote: On the basis of the ZUJF, fewer employees in the public sector – more pensions. Now it says in the newspaper: In 2013 at least 10,000 pensions were reduced. I don't know how this is actually happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u248	Look, the very desire of the government and probably the legislator who adopted this law is that these measures are selective. Therefore, this is the termination of the employment relationship of the one who meets the conditions for retirement without deduction. So this decision is different from the case to the case, for some of the older ones are — for example, you mentioned health care probably elsewhere — necessarily necessary for the continuation of a particular work process or without it. Some of them didn't. It is crucial that those responsible for this work process also find out and eventually sign such a decision. In short, it is not that someone intervenes in the work process at the expense of some such measures also makes this work process more difficult. It's the opposite! That those who meet the conditions of working without any serious consequences for their economic situation, because they are entitled to a full pension – this also reduces the number of employees in the public sector. We probably don't share this view, whether it's enough, or too little, or too busy in the public sector. I think there are too many of them and that this is one of the most mild, nicest, tenderest measures for some reduction of employees in the public sector; and in particular those with the highest paid. For at the end of their business and personal careers, people are likely to have maximum titles. I think that this is also a very important measure to restore staff in these institutions, no matter where. This has therefore been adopted and this is also financially sustainable. Where the chairman – the one responsible for the work process – assessed that he needed to do so, he did not sign the measure. Where he felt he did not need it, because he was also responsible for this work process, he signed it; without any serious consequences for the social situation. It's all a mystery and all the logic of this action.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question. Mag. Borut Ambrožič will ask the ministers a question, namely, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Mr Andre Visiak and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavaci, who will be able to answer the question at the next meeting. Here you go, mag. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The question is indeed addressed to both ministers. Perhaps, however, the present minister will be able to fully answer me here, because this is a question relating to our Slovenian cooperation with the European Union. At first, allow me to ask a question and then explain it later. I'm asking the minister: Are they committed to ratifying the Council of Europe Convention 2010 as soon as possible on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence? On 25 November, the General Assembly of the United Nations set an international date for the fight against violence against women. On this day, three political activists in the Dominican Republic, Sister Mirabel, were killed at the command of Dominican leader Rafael Trujille. Violence is not foreign, unfortunately, even to Slovenian soil. According to statistics from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and also data from the Slovenian police, women were exposed to violence in 2011 within the family in a thousand 584 cases. In the form of bodily injuries, 529 of which were 19 women killed; in the form of cruel behaviour or neglect – 379 times in the same year, in the form of sexual violence – 222 women, of which 130 were girls under 15 years of age. In 2011! And we could list it. Many of them find refuge in the network of public social security programmes, which complement other social security services offered in the Republic of Slovenia. These programmes are designed to address the social pressures of individuals and groups in order to take the needs of individuals who seek help most into account. These forms, as we know, include maternity homes, safe houses, youth homes, and more. In 2011, Slovenia signed the Council of Europe Convention 2010 on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. To date, unfortunately, the limited Convention has not yet been ratified. That's why I'm asking Minister Mag. Andrej Visiak and indirectly also Karl Viktor Erjavac: Will the competent ministry, the one responsible for this, ratify the Council of Europe Convention 2010 and thus express a political commitment to support the fight for women's human rights? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u251	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u252	Dear Member, you have rightly observed that the Republic of Slovenia has signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence on 8 September 2011. The procedure for preparing for ratification of the Convention has been coordinated by the former Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for equal opportunities and, following the transfer of its activities to the Ministry of Labour to the Service for Equal Opportunities and European Coordination, coordinated by the competent service of the Ministry. At the initiative of the Office, a working group on the drafting of the Slovenian text of the Convention was also established by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At its last meeting, the working group found that it needed clarifications concerning some of the concepts contained in the text of the Convention. The Service for Equal Opportunities and European Affairs is therefore in constant contact with the head of the competent department, the Department for Violence against Women and Domestic Violence of the General Directorate of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and Rule of Law. As part of its efforts to accelerate the signing and ratification of the Convention, the Council of Europe is looking for answers at technical level and also at these technical problems which are blocking. This is mainly due to inadequate translation or "domestic violence", as they call it, and is often translated by the Member States as domestic violence. The Council of Europe has already pointed out that the use of the concept of "violence in the family" is contrary to the definition of this concept in Article 3 of the Convention, especially when national legislation defines the family as a traditional community of parents and children. I would therefore like to point out that sometimes at this technical level, even at the level of translation, there are problems and that is why we are looking for these solutions in particular. In principle, we do not have any ratification problems in the ministry, but we want the text to be corrected, to also express the relevant deadlines according to the convention and according to the domestic tradition and the traditional use of terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you. I'm actually very pleased with the answer. However, I would like to ask a further question because I find that, despite the fact that it is a foreign act that Slovenia is obviously prepared to ratify, which will certainly please not only the women's part of the population, but also all those who are dealing with human rights issues. Can you tell me an approximate time frame that provides for the solution of these open translation issues? Clearly, it is the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs which is responsible for these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you. We continue with the next question. Would you like to respond, Mr. Secretary? Yeah, he asked a question, but I didn't see if you wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you very much. First, some information to see that we're not exactly the exception here. In fact, so far 25 of the 47 member states of the Council of Europe have signed the Convention and Slovenia has signed it as a 16th country. So we are in some way in the first half, which confirms that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working and is aware of the importance of an effective fight against all forms of violence against women and violence in the family. Therefore, there is a continuing commitment of zero tolerance to these forms of violence. However, only one country has ratified the Convention so far, namely Turkey in March this year, which means that it is obviously not that simple for other countries as well. We will strive to resolve these linguistic matters with translations as soon as possible. It is impossible for me to commit to you here now and tell you when this will be: whether it will be next month or in two. But surely we will do everything we can to ratify it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next question. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is a well-known fact that in our country, with state-owned banks, we have been having huge problems all the time since our independence. We have problems mainly because of the fact that the banks’ management, the supervisory council of banks, and obviously the Bank of Slovenia, have not done their work as they should and are called for. Bank management has in the past approved large-scale loans to economic and other entities without or without sufficient insurance and those supervisory mechanisms have not played their supervisory role in order to prevent and call those responsible to account. These negative phenomena have resulted in the permanent recapitalisation of banks with tax money, which is not going anywhere. I firmly believe that we will do more than the necessary and proper rehabilitation of state banks through the adopted Act on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability when it finally enters into force. However, I am interested in your opinion and the government's future behaviour regarding state banks: the banks that we must continue to recapitalise have, on the other hand, a lot of new apartments – and thus huge capital – that they do not want to sell on the market. If they were, they would have expanded the offer on the market, as they could have been bought by those who solve the housing problem and would have provided banks with substantial financial resources that would have led the country to have significantly lower liabilities to the banks. On the other hand, banks also own a lot of land and certain shares in companies, which should also be sold and consequently relieve the State’s obligations to them but do not want to do so. What will you do or act to eliminate these anomalies as soon as possible? Thank you very much for your concrete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u259	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u260	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. I strongly agree with what you have said, and I think that this logic of permanent recapitalisation of banks with tax money must end. We are working hard to bring about such a situation that it is possible, and so we have announced before the elections. Unfortunately, the situation in banks is not such that we can afford it at this point without risking greater instability in the banking system, so you don't want us to have to provide capital for the banks and it's not excluded that we're still going to have to do it in the future, let's say next year. But what you're saying is that banks also have a certain asset that has some value and that's not usually bank property. You yourself have talked about dwellings, including shares in various companies and the responsibility of banks would, of course, be to strengthen their capital in this way as well, to resell these funds that they do not need, and to create some capital here. What was the problem and partly still a problem from the bank's point of view is: if, for example, the sale of some real estate is not just housing, it can be industrial property or some objects that were given as collateral, and it achieves a lower price than that at which this property is valued in its books, it essentially creates a book loss and this loss creates additional capital loss, not capital increase. This is now a banking issue. and we have tried, as a government, to replace the logic of solving this problem in this mandate. So far, the way to solve the problem has been this: let's try to recognise as little as possible the problem, the part of the problem as necessary, whether it is property, the valuation of the shares of the enterprise or the valuation of the dwellings, to solve the matter of recapitalisations in the minimum necessary amount, in order to achieve the minimum required capital adequacy, and to hope that the economic situation improves and that the crisis is resolved to somehow translate. We are thinking differently, so we have proposed two important laws, the Act on Measures to Strengthen Banks and also last week's amendments to the Banking Act. This gives us the opportunity to take a different action, our logic is that the problem needs to be fully recognised and measured immediately and also addressed immediately. If you are looking at what the administrations are doing in the two largest banks in the last year, they are intensively identifying what is wrong, risky and so on, write off or carry out weaknesses that are more aggressive, if I may say so, what they have done before in these banks. This also made us aware of additional capital needs, such as the New Ljubljana Bank. But I think it's reasonable to act in this sense that there's now a new team that wants to create a clean picture and who wants to create some solid foundation, for at least in the future to start off with some clear foundation, not to be surprised in one year or two years' time by something else in a closet. That's what we support. As it is said: these two laws – in particular the Act on strengthening the stability of banks if it is enforced, if there is no referendum or if there is a referendum, and also the Bank of Slovenia Act – give us additional powers. We can also say in a good way that not only are we prepared, but we also know that we are obliged to provide capital, and we are not the first to provide it; that other measures that can be taken earlier; that other investors that can be sought are private, domestic and foreign. Even in the end, all of what you've been talking about is the cashing up of passive assets in order to increase capital. I think we should do all of this before we recapitalise them in one more part if we have to. I think that you can expect us to try to lead things in this direction; but you also understand that the Minister of Finance cannot call the bank and say so, but now start selling apartments, and I have already made this opinion public, in order to make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question. Mag. Jana Jenko will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everything, especially Mr. Minister! My questions, however, are addressed to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Cernač. We all know and agree that renewable energies are essential to halt the destruction and deterioration of our environment. We are no exception in Slovenia either. On a recent visit to Zasavje, the Prime Minister also expressed his belief that the future of this energy and even Slovenian energy is in renewable energy sources. It would therefore be logical to expect that the Government and the competent ministry will do their utmost to encourage both the economy and individual households to use environmentally friendly renewable energies such as solar energy, wind energy, geothermal heat, water and the like. Unfortunately, the practice is quite different. At the end of November, the Government adopted an amendment to the electricity support regulation produced from renewable energy sources. This is a regulation which, in particular, reduces support for solar power plants by 63.89% in relation to the reference costs set out in 2009, when the support scheme started. Support will then be further reduced by 2% monthly. This regulation will also have consequences in the social field, with some 5,000 jobs in photovoltaics that have become even more threatened by this regulation. Let me just mention that one of Slovenia's most recognizable photovoltaic companies, which comes from Savinja Valley and is one of the largest employees in the industry, is already being sold. Problems are also encountered in other areas of renewable resources. Wind power plants are not set up because of the continued unjustified opposition of naturekeepers, and private hydroelectric power plants are subject to concession procedures ranging from five to six years and there is still something to be found. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space: On what basis did the Government decide to adopt such a harmful regulation for the photovoltaic industry? The proposal for a new energy law is also not friendly to renewable energy sources. In the event that it is adopted, it will, inter alia, bring about the introduction of a public tender only once a year at the end of the year. The Ministry explains that the commitment under the 2010-2020 Action Plan for Renewable Energy has already been achieved and even exceeded. On the other hand, Slovenia, from the European Union Cohesion Fund, has so far spent only a third of the funding. We only have a year left to spend the other two thirds. I wonder why the economy does not use these resources to co-finance renewable energy sources. Why don't they just spit in their hands and prepare the right programs? I also ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space: What measures, if any, will encourage greater use of renewable energy sources [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u263	Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much for that question. It's two separate stories, photovoltaic support and cohesion. As you yourself said, an action plan was adopted in 2010 in this area for the period 2010 to 2020, which sets out a commitment to be set up in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020 of 139 megawatts of photovoltaic production facilities. This objective was achieved by the end of 2011. By the end of 2011, about 140 megawatts of these photovoltaic devices had already been installed in Slovenia and more than 70 megawatts in the first half of this year. So we are now somewhere at 220 or at the end of the year at 220 megawatts, which means that this goal, which was somehow projected by 2020, has not only been achieved, but significantly exceeded. At the time of the adoption of this Action Plan, Slovenia has also committed itself to revise the granting of State aid at least once a year by the Slovenian authorities – some form of State aid – to grant these subsidies and to carry out an appropriate audit in view of changes in the market for photovoltaic devices. At the time of this review, for the first time in the middle of this year and for the second time in November, it was found that the economy in this area is too high. This support is not intended for some exceptional profit but is intended for a support scheme for the introduction of photovoltaic devices. Clearly, this support scheme has been extremely beneficial, and we have therefore exceeded this action plan more than 50% this year and, in line with the commitments we have made to the European Commission, we have also been obliged to revise this support scheme in accordance with the changed circumstances. This means that support still exists, is lower than it was in 2011 and than it was in the first half of 2012, and will continue to decline in the future after some automaticity, but still allow, according to development, the appropriate technological development that we have witnessed in recent years, adequate support for photovoltaic production devices even in the coming years. It should also be said that this support is 15 years old. In all of these contracts, the obligation to provide this support at such an amount as it existed at the time of allocation is followed by 15 years, which means that the Republic of Slovenia will have to provide approximately €74 million of funding for this support over the next 12, 13, 14 years. As you know, these support is provided from electricity prices or network prices. The result of this abnormal and uncontrolled growth after December 2011 will also be an increase in electricity prices somewhere in February next year and the average household will be charged from this heading at around 3 euros per month. The Republic of Slovenia was obliged to accept these amendments in accordance with the signed commitments; otherwise, it could be concluded that it was unlawful State aid and, if this finding was also accepted, it should also be recovered on the basis of the requests of the authorities requiring it to be appropriate. This is not what we want, which is why this measure has been adopted. With regard to cohesion, I must say that in this area funds are being used and drawn up expeditiously. A number of calls have been made in recent years for both the use of renewable energy sources and the energy rehabilitation of public-owned buildings, as well as for the reduction of electricity consumption, in particular by supporting the economy in the installation of more cost-effective lights, as well as the replacement of these councils in the public sphere, particularly in the local community – I am talking mainly about public lighting. All these calls are still open. Some of them, in particular with regard to the replacement of these lamps, use of resources for the construction of wood biomass boilers. However, the tender is also concluded, given the lack of funds for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. So it is not a fear that the means to do so will draw on them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. On the radio, I heard that these funds for renewable resources or for the rehabilitation of these buildings had run out in October, I think. I want to know: Are your programmes large enough to draw more from the European Cohesion Fund in the coming years or next year? I know it was a problem this year because three months later it was no longer possible to get these funds. I'm going to start by saying: How'd you do that? Do you have more extensive pumping programs or are they at the same level as they were? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u267	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much for the additional question. In this area, as I have said, both in the field of renewable energy sources and in the field of energy rehabilitation, resources under the existing financial perspective are insufficient to ensure all needs, and in some other areas of cohesion we are counting on the fact that not all resources will be used or used up and that there is a possibility that one part of the funds transferred to energy efficiency will be transferred primarily with the aim of making the most successful or 100 % of the use of resources under the financial perspective from 2007-2013. In particular, this latest call for energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities shows that these projects are sufficient. After this first invitation to tender, there is somehow an application for around €85 million of eligible costs. As you know, we had €52 million at our disposal. We are looking for an opportunity to ensure this missing gap and, of course, we are also preparing ourselves for the next financial perspective 2014-2020, under which we will be obliged, under the European regulation, to ensure that from 2014 onwards at least 3% of public-owned buildings are renovated during this transitional period. Thus, projects in this area are sufficient, are also relatively rapid and feasible, and resources are likely to be lacking both in this programming period and in the next to ensure that all needs are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question. Mr Matjaž Han will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Mr Andrej Viszak and Minister of Finance Dr. Janez Šuštaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you very much again today. Both ministers are well aware that representatives of the Coordination of Domestic and Veteran Organisations of Slovenia are concerned that the co-financing of activities for 2012 has led to congestion and complications, and thus to difficulties in meeting the obligations they then have towards their employees. I hope that we all know what is the common task of patriotic and veteran organisations that I will also find: the Society for the Care of the Patriotic Traditions of Tiger Primorska, the Union of Fighters for the Values of NOB Slovenia, the Union of War Peoples of Slovenia, the Union of Veterans of War for Slovenia, the Union of Slovenian Officers, the Union of Police Veterans of the North, the Union of Associations of General Maister, the Union of Clubs and the Society of Morris, the Union of Civil Disabled Persons of the Wars of Slovenia. The common task is to maintain the exercise of patriotic and patriotic values, to preserve the memory of the turning points in the fight for the Slovenian people. Their efforts also go in a direction that is also very important, the direction of reminding us of the horrors of war and the preservation of peace. Notwithstanding the fact that all these organisations are working for these same values, their co-financing is not the same. I also ask myself: How is the financing of the Association of Evictions of Slovenia regulated? Particular attention should be paid to the functioning of your ministries this year. Why am I saying this? The funds already provided for the operation of patriotic organisations for the first half of the year have been halved. However, the contracts for the second half of the year have not yet been concluded despite the organisation's replies. Dear Minister, I ask you: Where did the co-financing contracts for their activities for the second half of 2012, which were harmonised at the beginning of July this year? When will these organizations receive contracts for signature? And two: What do you advise these organisations to successfully complete the 2012 financial evaluation programmes? How should they act in the preparation of new plans for 2013? We know that organisations still do not have the criteria for co-financing, but they are key to programming and programming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u271	Here you go, Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u272	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. It is quite amazing how veteran organisations have so far been financed in this country. In fact, each veteran organisation had its own budget line. Programmes were not financed here, they were not financed by content, but each veteran organisation had its own budget line and then followed the signing of a direct contract and the payment of money. That's a very interesting thing. Of course, then we decided to end this and, therefore, after that, in 2013 the financing of veteran organisations will no longer be this way. We will finance programmes, activities, what veteran organisations are supposed to do; that is to say, what you have mentioned, in some way, patriotism, reminders and reminders of the values that have led to the independent state, the faithful fact that we have a country and that we owe it to continue to care for it. I'm afraid that veteran organisations are doing a lot of different things and that they're very different. Some of their funds are actually intended for these purposes, you mentioned, say, the Society of Evictions of Slovenia; the Society of Evictions of Slovenia does not have professionals, it does not have some costs with salaries and so on, but they work volunteering, they work for their members, with the heart and soul to send this company and therefore receive a few times less money than some other veteran organizations that have their headquarters, even have a purchase of funds. When we did, and we do this every year, an assessment of the performance, we found that there was little money spent fighting for content, for this mission, which you, honourable Member, sang in your question, and much more to cover the costs of wages, material costs and other reimbursements for the functioning of the veteran organisation itself as such. Veteran organisations are very different, some have assets, some have other sources of funding, and in fact they do not have some serious problems with the implementation of some patriotic, domestic programmes, some, of course, are significantly more left behind by the state. Therefore, as I have already said, we no longer intend to follow past practice and have specific budget lines in the future. In the budget you have adopted, this is no longer the case, but there is one common budget line for the programmes of veteran organisations, followed by a call for equal funding for these programmes in the coming year. That is why I believe and I am sure that this money will be in the future for several programmes and for less fixed costs of directing the individual veteran organisation. This does not deny that veteran organisations have these employees. If they estimate that they need them for their work and if they can be financed from other sources, they should have them, but public money will be allocated exclusively to fund programmes and, of course, the scope of work within the framework of the veteran organisation for the implementation of this programme will also be evaluated through programmes. And now that we are talking about the current year, this year, let me remind you that when I took over the affairs of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, my predecessor signed a contract for half a year with the veteran organisations for half of the funds, that we put the rest of the balance in half and I signed those contracts myself in autumn, but we also came to the conclusion that we had to allocate part of the funds to the reserve so that we could even implement the budget further. This has happened and therefore no realisation of these treaties has occurred.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, would you like to complete the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u274	Yes, thank you very much. I hope my question didn't sound too ideological. If we have accepted something, we also have certain obligations, but we can respect them. Some things just can't have their price because it's about dignity. When we needed all these veterans, the cops, the military, and so on 20 years ago, we numbered them, we thought they were heroes, but today, when they do this important work, they remind us of the trouble of reminding us of the horrors of war, we want to give them up in an easy way. I do not think we should follow this, and I hope that patriotic organizations will not be divided into more patriotic ones or those who will be dear to us and those who are not at our heart. Yesterday there was one celebration in Kočev and as soon as possible the state found money for an organization that is more patriotic than the patriotic North, Tiger and so on. I hope we don't let ourselves down on this ideological floor. So once again, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to tell me what you're going to do for 2013. What can our veteran organizations expect this year? It's not enough if the minister says he signed the contract, but another minister says, and I don't give the money. Will these veteran associations receive money for their operations this year?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u275	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u276	Dear Member, I'm afraid not, is the answer to the last question. However, I would like to comment on one thing that I am not aware of, personally, that any programme that is being implemented in the context of patriotism or, as I would say, a noble message that you mentioned could not be implemented by this veteran organisation, or that it could even be reduced to a significant extent. However, I have heard many protests from secretaries, in particular the two largest veteran organisations, about their salaries and their fate. That's right! So it is not a problem, in my opinion, in this mission of these veteran organisations – that mission is worthy and appreciated, regardless of the period in which the veteran organisation originates. I think that's a good thing, and that's a good thing. The problem is that this funding is generated in the financing of some individuals operating within these veteran organisations, but not for that programme mission of these veteran organisations. Therefore, once again, this complicated public funding this year will be set aside for the future. That's why we're not going to get rid of these programs in the future. On the contrary, for 2013, you have adopted a budget of what was originally adopted for 2012, so the programme money is enough. In doing so, we report that we appreciate the mission of these organisations, but it is true that funding will not be in this way anymore, but will be directed towards specific programmes, projects of these veteran organisations, in such events as you mentioned at the end or in the middle of your second question, but not for the salaries of employees there.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Master Do you want to answer Dr. Shuštišič? [[...]] You wanted to? No, no, no. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will ask the ministers a question, namely, to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic, who is absent today, and to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Happy Zerjava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to all of us who are still here today! Dear Minister! About a week or two ago, we were able to read the title of the Kranjski sewer project Gorka without money. I will say that Gorka is primarily an environmental project that I would or would like to solve a number of problems. The project was made. The project is supposed to be marked with the best rating, I'll say A1, so our colleague Grims taught us on the municipal council. Land has been acquired, construction permits have been obtained, but this project at the state level has lost priority. We know that drawing on European funds is a major problem. We're not going to discuss and look for culprits today. However, it is true that drawing is the lowest in the field of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. Large environmental and transport projects are not carried out according to the expected dynamics, and sometimes there are delays for up to two years and the reasons for this are based on several facts. This is the Government's report on the adoption of a document on the absorption of European cohesion policy funds for the period 2007-2013. Because for Kranj, Gorenjska, and here I will put also the Kamnik, Domžale project, which has the exact same problem, it is unacceptable that projects that are so well prepared do not get the green light on the government side, but have received projects that are significantly less prepared and also the stage of project preparation is significantly worse. That's why I'm asking you first: Why is the Gorki project so low in government priorities? What will you do to solve this problem for Kranj, Gorenjska and, once again, for Kamnik and Domžale? I will repeat: it is unacceptable for us that such well-prepared projects are classified so low on the government's priority scale.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u279	Here you go, Minister Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you. Thank you so much for asking. The main answer will be given by your colleague Bogovic. Let me say that it is important that the Government allocated €452 million of surplus spending rights this October, so-called 'overcommitment', for additional projects that are quality and well-prepared for implementation. For projects aimed at building infrastructure to remove and clean waste municipal waters, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, in cooperation with MGRT, the managing authority, has produced a list of projects with a high level of preparedness that can be implemented immediately. The projects in preparation were assessed by the degree of risk of implementation that A, B and C may be based on the level of preparedness, depending on whether the project documentation was produced, the building permits obtained or even the design application for the project. The Gorki One project covers the Kranja area with the official title Disposal and clean-up of waste water in the Upper Sava basin and in the Kranjska and Sorska fields area, the second phase, and is on the project list in preparation and has a risk level A, which means that it is in a high level of readiness to have the project documentation, the application and production of the tendering documents, the building permits obtained or are in the final stage of production. The role for Gorka is one in the review process at both competent ministries, as well as in the tender documentation for the selection of the contractor. If the application is properly prepared, the Gorki project will have one decision to approve the project. Despite the fact that only €2.5 million is available from financial realisation data, there are many such projects that already have decisions, are not implemented or are being implemented with major delays. Therefore, these projects are preparing to amend these decisions and to reduce the allocation of funds for this financial perspective, all in the light of, of course, all available resources available. We call these projects critical projects. MGRT, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology as the managing authority, and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment as the intermediate body responsible for these projects, have drawn up a so-called commission for critical projects which assessed projects with regard to the risk of implementation in this financial perspective. The final list of these projects will be drawn up by the end of this year in accordance with the Government Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Cousin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u282	I could read all of this in the paper; in short, it will if it does. I would like a written answer from Mr Bogovic not to wait until the next meeting. Dear Minister, the projects that already have decisions are supposed to be spoken of, but I know not, prepared significantly worse than our project is prepared, if I can call it that, that is the Gorki project, and remain in the Government's priorities, as is spoken within or among the coalition MPs, because the mayors come from your party. I wish that wasn't true, but if I look at the area and who the mayor is there, it turns out, unfortunately, it's very real. I hope you will again check which projects have decisions and are less prepared or unprepared, and you will not risk leaving money in Europe because those mayors are closer to you. I think that Kranj and Gorenjska – or the lower Gorenjska, as you said before – are unable to carry out this project without European funds, but the municipality has been working very hard for the last few years to bring the project to this stage where it is, according to the building permits obtained. It is unacceptable for me, however, that now that we are in fact completely at the end, we should lose this important source.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u283	Mag. Crane, will you answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u284	Look, Mrs. Ambassador, I really must say no! I wouldn't based on rumors based on one, let's really look at the other! [[...]] No project that's not ready has yet been given a decision, at least if I knew not. For now, no one! However, we are working on a case-by-case basis to be ready as soon as possible and to be able to begin implementation as soon as possible. Those who are being implemented, however, are being pressured by all four to obtain applications as soon as possible and to return to Slovenia as soon as possible. So I absolutely reject what you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Magi's request. Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister of the Environment, will answer the question in writing. We are moving on to the next question; Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u286	Mr. Secretary, hello! We are always talking about major infrastructure projects in these areas when I refer to you as the Minister of Infrastructure, in particular today the question is addressed to the TEN-T pan-European network, which is actually one of the key projects connecting the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor. In recent months, it has become increasingly clear that our neighbouring countries are already engaged and are investing in rail infrastructure within the TEN-T development network. Slovenia needs to act quickly and concretely, as there is a risk that we will lose the possibility of obtaining European funds for the modernisation and construction of rail infrastructure and will even be excluded from the European roadmaps for the three corridors. While the government has foreseen certain funds in the 2013 and 2014 budget but minimally for these investments. The funds are also planned in development programmes, which is commendable and shows that there are strategies for this investment that will take place for at least ten years. I want to know: What is the priority order and timetable for investments in railway infrastructure related to the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, named TEN-T or so-called Adriatic Corridor, on which Austria and Italy are already working hard? When I look around all the newspapers and the media a little while ago, when I look at what they say about Slovenia. Minister, you are also aware of this, including in today's Finances with a large title Railway System calls for a thorough renovation. In fact, this is highlighted by all those involved in rail transport and, above all, by logistics. And we have been talking for several decades about the need to modernise our infrastructure system, and we are not succeeding in any way. Slovenia is somehow the country with the most wasted opportunities and Slovenia is one of the countries that sleeps on key projects that mean development and advancement for it. If we want to move forward, connect and integrate into the pan-European space, because if I do not make progress and if we do not invest in the rail network, we can forget about Luka Koper, we can forget about connections and development if you want, Slovenia. So I ask you, tell me: How far are we? How serious do we think when it is decided in Brussels in 2013 whether Slovenia will actually be included in the projects? To what extent is Slovenia ready to participate today?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u287	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much for that question. The modernisation of the Slovenian railway network has already been the subject of several speeches in this mandate, and I can reiterate that Slovenia has not actually been the most successful in this area in recent years, if we can find that we have somehow completed the motorway cross in most ways, I must say that here, in this area, probably also because we did not have a strategy in the past, some long-term visions on which we would have embarked, we have not been so successful. These projects, which are linked to a longer period of time, are projects whose preparation takes longer, so it is very important that we now set them optimally with the next financial perspective and in this way that they can be implemented more rapidly in the coming period. In the context of this financial perspective 2007-2013, however, we are limited to what has been adopted, and in this context we must also make this investment work happen. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, we are talking about some 450 million European funds, some 52 million of which were earmarked for the second track in this perspective, because otherwise these resources would have fallen. As part of this perspective, the modernisation of the existing Divača-Koper railway line, the electrification of the Prague-Hodoš railway with the realization of level crossings will be carried out, a modern system of rail traffic management and control and some other smaller projects in the field of railway infrastructure will be established. As far as the classification of Slovenian transport axes into legislation or documents at European Union level is concerned, I must say that the situation is different and that we are currently placed in all important corridors in this area. The Core Network Corridors have thus been proposed by the European Commission in the framework of the proposal for a regulation establishing an instrument for linking Europe with the aim of facilitating the implementation of the core TEN-T network in the next financial perspective. With regard to this Regulation, the TTE Council adopted a partial general approach in June this year, in which it has also finalized the corridor of the nuclear network annexed to this Regulation. It covers Slovenia both in the Mediterranean corridor – as far as the railway connection, which takes place across Slovenia from the Italian border, through Ljubljana to the border with Hungary – and in the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor – I am also talking about the railway connection between the border with Austria, Šentilj, via Maribor and Ljubljana to Koper, including the port of Koper. In addition, the railway link between Ljubljana and the border with Croatia through Dobova is covered among the other sections of this Annex. The debate and adoption of this Regulation is currently under way within the European Parliament, Slovenia, through its Members, is actively monitoring and participating in the drafting of this Regulation in this institution, and we hope, irrespective of the different, such and different wishes, opinions and pressures, that, even when final confirmation or coordination between the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, Slovenia will be covered in the corridors or sections referred to above. This is a normative part, but much more important is the practical, implementation part. Nothing will help us to accommodate all these corridors if we do not intensify investment in the renovation of the existing rail network and the upgrading of the rail network in those sections where this upgrade is necessary in the next period. For this reason, modernisation of the railway network is one of the priorities of this government, a special effort will be made in the following years to restore and upgrade the track sections that do not yet have category D, to join the construction of the second track Maribor-Shentilj – State border, to increase the capacity of the Ljubljana–Sesenica route for the needs of quality urban transport of Ljubljana, to increase the security of the caravan tunnel and to place in the space a larger number of railway projects that previously need to be carried out in order to implement the State Spatial Plan, and, of course, to continue or complete the implementation of the infrastructure interventions that I mentioned in the introduction of the answer to this question. With regard to the second track between Divaca and Kopro, the documentation is concluded, I am counting on the building permit to be obtained in spring next year and in the following year we will also start with the first phase of the procedure, which will increase these flows from 82 to 103 trains per day.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u289	Here you go, Mr. Misich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u290	Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive response. In fact, I agree with you myself, but many of these words were also made in the previous reference, and in the previous reference and so on. However, the fact is that when we read certain articles, we read even professional literature about all these integrations of Slovenia into the European space. Here I will borrow from a postgraduate student Business Logistics at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, Mr Matic Prosen, who actually states: "No matter whether all the infrastructure plans described above will be fully implemented, we can conclude that the projects of our three neighbours are much more ambitious and better placed than our own. The neighbouring countries are aware that there will be no progress and growth without investing in infrastructure. It is true that today is a difficult time because reforms and savings are at the top of the agenda, but it is necessary to invest in strategically important infrastructure networks or projects in order to start up the economy and maintain global competitiveness. The current situation in our country, unfortunately, shows that we will not compete in the future, not even in our region, but in a global sense." Mr. Secretary, more needs to be done! We need to talk and talk. Back then, seven years ago, when we almost fell off this TEN-T network, we made a major mistake. We can't sleep. We have to get involved. I also thought we had an excellent geotransmitter, geostrategic position. We got her! However, if we do not know how to make use of it now before Croatia enters the European Union, we will be walked from the left and from the right literally. And Slovenia will remain trapped in its smallness, in its strange position, the Unoperable way will not lead us far. [[...]] We must provide the means, those that in fact represent only a difference from the resources provided by the European Union, and it will be sad if we miss all the opportunities offered by the European space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u291	Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u292	One correction first. Slovenia did not fall off the TEN-T network. I hope that this will not happen in 2013. Although I must say that some are making efforts in this direction, I am sure that we will maintain our position. What has been delayed in recent years will be very difficult to make up for. I would be happy to start one of these more important projects now if we had prepared a basis for it. Unfortunately, we do not have the basis for either those projects that have been recorded or recognised as important and priority in the field of rail infrastructure for the period 2007-2013, and that we are still struggling to prepare the basis for these projects, which should already be implemented, to be implemented in 2013 and in the coming years and to be completed by the end of 2015. For this reason, I have said that it is very important that we now prepare the basis for the next period, when, on the one hand, the resources of the future financial perspective can, in view of what we had at our disposal in this financial perspective, be able to implement infrastructure projects in the field of railway infrastructure modernisation. Although the problem is also financial resources, I must say that at present it is not a major obstacle to investing in the modernisation of the railway network in Slovenia, but is currently the main obstacle to the lack of an adequate concept in the past, which would allow us to have prepared projects for these investments on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u294	Dear Minister, otherwise I am satisfied with your answer – in part. However, given the situation we are in, and in view of all the concerns that you have before, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, the Minister's response, in particular the extension of this question and the clarification of the whole situation around this famous TEN_-T corridor, the fifth, the tenth corridor, all these updates, all these urgent systemic solutions that are actually necessary for Slovenia. We cannot be eternal prisoners of the past. The fact is that the past must be forgotten as soon as possible, at least in the part where many mistakes have been made and that we can learn from this by focusing on the future. Slovenia actually needs infrastructure; in other words, the country means and represents an infrastructure that is the basis for the development of the economy. We need to connect to the European space, because if we don't do this today, if we don't prepare all the documentation, because we saw at the second track, Mr Minister, that the problem is, above all, in a few kilometres of terrain to obtain certain documentation. But in the field, we've seen that the inhabitants of this area are in favor. I don't know if you were at the show more than six months ago. Everyone was in, no one was in! But here we are facing some administrative blockades that are only known to us why they are; because we have such laws that instead of promoting development, they actually inhibit development and give individual bureaucrats the power to further inhibit these projects. I don't know if you've noticed that when Mr Brian Simpson, president of the European Parliament's Transport Committee, visited Luka Koper recently, said that the very beginning of the second track would be a good proof that Slovenia is serious about building the infrastructure and engaging itself in the TEN-T project. It is said that European Commissioners, European representatives call us directly to start these projects and these are their statements, not mine [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u295	Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misic?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u296	It has already been a procedural proposal, Madam Vice-President, that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a discussion should be held on this subject with a view to clarifying this famous and megalomanic problem. If we do not save what we have to save for our infrastructure and connect our Slovenia, it does not help us to have a geostrategic position, because then we are dedicated to ourselves. Thus Italy, Croatia, Hungary, Austria – everyone is working on it, only Slovenia, unfortunately, is not successful. We wish we hadn't in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. Indeed, the Minister has also expressed his desire to respond to anything else. But now he says he'd only say one sentence. I'll allow you one sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u298	Mr. Brian Simpson, who told us that it would be time to build a second track, said in Trieste when he went to visit, that Trieste and Koper should be connected.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač's Minister of Infrastructure and Space to his parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 December 2012, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Mag. Borut Ambrožič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrey Visiak and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, all present. While I note that the Minister of Health is not, I think that, as in the previous question, the present Minister will probably be able to answer at least partially. In the European Parliament, on the basis of the proposed amendments to the regular professions in the EU sent to the European Commission by 15 October 2012, amendments to the Directive on professional qualifications and regulated professions within the EU, so-called Directive 2005/36/on the recognition of professional qualifications, will be adopted and confirmed. These changes will be introduced to ensure the transparency of professional qualifications that would facilitate mobility and employment within EU Member States, as well as to provide conditions for the recruitment of personnel from outside the EU. Among the professions that seek to achieve the level of the so-called automated regulated profession in the EU is a specialist in laboratory medicine, which therefore includes experts with appropriate education or specialization, which operates within the framework of laboratory diagnostics dealing with haematology, microbiology, genetics, pathochistology, clinical chemistry and the like. This profession has so far not been automatically regulated and recognised as other professions in the healthcare sector, such as a doctor, specialist doctor, pharmacist, nurse and graduate nurse, despite the fact that today at least 70% of the decisions in the detection and treatment process are based on the results of laboratory tests that are used to assist previously mentioned, i.e. the already automatically regulated and recognised professions. Since it is essential for the further development and existence of a profession, especially from the point of view of ensuring the safety of patients and ensuring their rights in the detection and treatment of diseases, it is essential to unify these professional qualifications at EU level and, as a result, to recognise the profession of laboratory medicine specialists, this profession should be supported as one of the basic professions in health care. This is, last but not least, acknowledged by Mrs Bernadette Vergnaud, rapporteur for the modernisation of the directive. So, Minister, I ask: How are the changes to the Directive on professional qualifications and regulated professions within the EU taking place concerning the profession of laboratory medicine and in what way? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u301	The word is given by Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u302	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. Indeed, the proposal for a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is based on the Green Paper issued by the Commission in June 2011, which also called on Member States to respond and make proposals for updating this Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. The main objective, which is also pursued by the proposal, is to reduce as much obstacles to labour mobility as possible caused by the number of regulated professions. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is the holder of the directive, which is being addressed at the formation of the Competitiveness Council. Since this is an extremely horizontal act, we are coordinating it with all the resources and other key actors. There is constant written correspondence among the members of the Interdepartmental Working Group for the implementation of this Directive on the content of the proposal, which is dealt with by individual members at meetings of the EU Council. The position of the Republic of Slovenia is to support the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the Regulation on administrative cooperation within the framework of the Internal Market Information System. The position was also confirmed and adopted in the National Assembly. Nine meetings of the establishment and services working group have been held in Brussels so far. The incoming Irish Presidency explained that this file is a priority for them, so they will pay full attention to it. Eleven meetings are foreseen, Coreper will discuss this file for the first time during the Irish Presidency, on 16 January, the Committee of the European Parliament, and when amendments are expected to be voted on on on 26 January next year. On the basis of all the comments made so far, the Presidency will draw up a new revised version of the proposal for a directive, which will serve as a basis for discussion next year. We expect a revised version of this material in January. On 5 December, Coreper took note of the progress report, and on 10 December, ministers were also briefed at the Competitiveness Council meeting, where it was found that progress had been made at the technical level in the negotiations that took place at this level of professional nature. The Commissioner has also highlighted the human dimension of this directive in everyday life for the single market. The European Commission needs horizontal aspects of the proposal for a directive, in particular this professional card, which is of priority both for it and for the European Parliament, as this legislative proposal has important implications for people's everyday lives. Next, I would not burden you with the goals and solutions that you correctly stated. However, I have informed you of what you have asked me, i.e. the continuation of the adoption of this important amendment to the directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u303	Mag. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thank you for a very comprehensive answer. As before, I also have one additional question: Do I understand correctly that this profession, i.e. laboratory medicine specialist, from the Slovenian point of view, is placed in this negotiation with EU authorities? Will our ministry, or this coordinating body, pursue this goal in order to allow this group of experts, who plays an extremely important role in our health system, to have the same qualifications as other professions? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u305	Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u306	I believe that there will be a debate on this very specific, specific problem. The Ministry – I now read to you what the Ministry of Health has prepared for me, because this question concerns them and there is no minister here today. From the field of laboratory medicine specialists, the Ministry of Health received a letter from the Slovenian Association for Clinical Chemistry expressing interest in the inclusion of this profession in an automatic recognition system based on common principles for training or a single educational framework. It follows from the attached documentation that the amendment initiative was also sent to the MEPs to take account of the amendments to the proposal for a directive, which will be drafted by the European Parliament. I've already told you this will take place in January. The Ministry of Health points out that the modernisation of the Directive has not yet been completed and the legal basis for the inclusion of this profession as a laboratory medicine specialist in the automatic recognition system on the basis of the common principles for training has not yet been adopted, as this is subject to specific modernisation. Once the legal basis is established, the Ministry of Health will carry out the process of including a specialist in laboratory medicine in a single education framework, taking into account the adoption of delegated acts and taking into account the fact that the profession exists in a sufficient number of countries in relation to the requirements of the Directive. I've had so much training from the Ministry of Health. But you'll have to put more to the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u307	Let's move on. Mrs Alenka Pavlič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u308	Because of the unions of parents, 66,000 students and students are more expensive tickets. Is This the Address of Saturday, 15 / 1 The 12th flooded the daily newspapers. Due to the call for a referendum and consequently the temporary financing of the budget after twelve, there will be insufficient resources to subsidise monthly tickets at the same level as before." That was your ministry or government's statement. This measure, on the one hand, in my personal opinion, avenges citizens for the referendum and, on the other hand, you have not had very serious intentions with this law from the very beginning. In fact, you wanted to give the citizens a candy after you and ZUJF damaged them. It was very hard to believe that you would do something good, but I can tell you that we both supported this road transport law on the part of the homework body and in the National Assembly. However, in fact, you do not know what you are doing, it has been obvious since the beginning, since you first gave the first class the price of €15, then you immediately proposed €20 for a subsidised ticket, and now you are bringing the first and second classes together and setting the price of €35. Mr. Secretary, I want to know: Do you now, I repeat, now, before the referendum is submitted, have sufficient resources to provide all students and students with a subsidised ticket? Because if that's true, then hypothetically: If we withdraw the referendum, can you guarantee all students and students equal terms?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u309	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much. At this point, according to December, subsidies are sufficient and are also provided and will be provided this year. But I don't understand how you could withdraw the referendum. Are you joining these unions that have collected 13,000 signatures and are one of these cosigners, if so, then it is nice that you have now said publicly that this initiative is also supported by Positive Slovenia, and it is right that this information is transparent and public. No Government, this initiative is the one that caused the system to no longer be sustainable during the period of temporary funding, because you know that the law was passed last summer and that this subsidy has only been in force since 1. 9 for students or 1 for students. Ten for the students. At the Ministry, we sought out all internal reserves and allowed this price increase to be lower than otherwise, this ticket for up to 90 kilometres will be uniform after a new one, before it cost 20 or 30 euros, after a new one-month ticket will cost 35 euros, a monthly ticket, and a surcharge will be introduced for urban transport in cases where the ticket in line transport combines with urban transport up to a maximum of 15 euros per beneficiary, including for a monthly ticket. For 10 rides, this ticket will be changed by €10 per month. Therefore, this subsidised ticket will still be at a relatively low price level, but it is true that we were forced very quickly to cut off after this measure because otherwise in January we would no longer be able to provide funds to subsidise this transport. Otherwise, your question was a little different than you've just asked, let me read it to you. The Ministry received the obligation to subsidise the transport of students and students by implementing the law. Amendments to the law provided for the entry into force of a monthly ticket for beneficiaries who travel daily from place of residence to place of education or a monthly ticket for 10 trips for beneficiaries who stay at the place of education during education. The question was how much available resources are available to subsidise transport, how many students and students received subsidies and what criteria do you use to grant subsidies. In view of your stated question, it is also right to answer what you have announced. At the annual level, a subsidy of up to €40 million per year, the number of students and students who intervened after this instrument, doubled in 2011; in November, this right was exercised by 47 000 672 students and 26 thousand 681 students. There are two criteria for the exercise of this right: a permanent or temporary residence, which is located at least 5 kilometres away from the location of educational providers and the status of a student, a student or a participant in adult education. Of course, the role must be given and confirmed by the relevant educational institution and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u311	Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u312	Mr. Minister, you know exactly that this was my lapsus lingue, which is no wonder after 12 hours of sitting in the National Assembly and full concentration. I'm sorry, it wasn't meant to be us who tabled this referendum, but if you're hunting for these points, that's fine. But what I'm about to tell you is that you're not going to like it. Sorry, sorry, we caught you on a lie, because when you said you'd guarantee everyone a level playing field, that's not true. In my written question, which I have asked you and received shortly before this meeting, you have assured – your secretary Mr. Zlender has prepared the answer – that you do not have enough resources to provide all students with subsidised transport, because I asked you there: Why don't you provide students in Jesenica and some other municipalities with this subsidized transport? The answer was that you don't have enough resources. In this case, I would like to ask you: Why do you discriminate between students? I believe that the law is the same for all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u313	Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you very much. There is no discrimination, you have asked me about the subsidisation of urban transport and not the subsidisation of cross-border transport, which are two separate issues and the law also defines the subsidisation of cross-border transport. However, with regard to the subsidisation of urban transport, it was decided by the Ministry that, if the funds are sufficient after we provide cross-border transport subsidies, which is a priority, the ministry will also join urban transport subsidies, in accordance with the availability of funds. We also did so and focused in the first phase on the places where the university is located or where the municipalities themselves provide free urban transport. This is how we subsidize urban transport in Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper, Novi Gorica, where we already have free transport, New City and so on. In the first step, we had the ambition to subsidise it in all other places, but in the case of financial sustainability, there is no obligation in the law at present. And we've made the most of these subsidies. Your question was about the municipality of Jesenice, where the main problem was not so much in the possibility of subsidisation, but in the amount of the monthly ticket valid in this area, because the urban transport is also combined. To the full extent, this system can be implemented as soon as an integrated ticket is introduced, this will be in 2014. That was the first step. I think that the effects that we have seen in recent months have been good, and I can only regret to find that we will be obliged to cut down on some minor price change, because, for completely unreasonable reasons, an initiative has been put in place for a referendum on the Budget Implementation Act, which does not mean anything good on any of the spending segments, both on this and on other segments where projects are supposed to be launched after 1 January, and we will not be able to implement them because we will be in a period of temporary funding. However, I must say that I am pleased that you are not among the signatories to this initiative and that at least we have made this clear, because I do not think that this initiative actually represents any added value in these efforts, which we are investing in these difficult situations, so that we can make the best possible use of every euro at our disposal and, on the other hand, make it possible to provide more favourable opportunities where we have the financial resources at our disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u315	Mrs Alenka Pavlič, a proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u316	I would like to make a proposal for a debate when the Parliament of the State still has a positive Slovenia and two Members, Mr Vogrin and Ambrožič, others have already given up. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Minister's response be discussed in general on the implementation of the Road Transport Act, since the Government and the Minister have discriminated against students by this law. But would you, Mr Minister, because we are already having such a friendly conversation when you said you were glad that we were not the initiators, you suggested to your ministry that it be preferable to undertake some major infrastructure projects, because all you had so far was that you had broken down three toll stations. That's why I really want to have a debate about this first sweet candy you gave to the students and students, who suddenly became a bitter-acid mint.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u317	We will decide on your proposal for a debate tomorrow as part of the vote. Here is the next question raised by Mrs Renata Brunskole to the Minister of Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Dear President, professional co-workers, ladies ministers, colleague and colleague! I ask the following questions to the Minister of Defense. With the Public Finance Balance Act, the Government has reached out to certain groups already guaranteed rights, including professional firefighters and paramedics, members of fighting organisations, members of veteran organisations or veterans of war for Slovenia. In recent events, natural disasters, such as floods, today are increasingly losing the pride and feeling of a stepmother's relationship with people who are willing to sacrifice their lives to defend the country rather than to protect people. These are groups of people working in the field of public interest, i.e. protection and resolution against natural and other disasters. Saving lives and possessions. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What is your or the government’s attitude toward these groups of people, since without them it would be a shame to sum up the facts of the last flood, even more so? I'm asking you: In what way will you continue to be able to ensure the smooth functioning of the protection and rescue of life and property? The Government's tight financial stance can cause much greater, not just financial consequences, for the whole of society in the long term. Therefore, the forecasts of additional financial cuts, I believe, are reckless and even harmful. One of the media contributions was published by Firefighters without rest, the government wants to talk about allowing and so on. Both professional and voluntary firefighters have been fighting nature for several days — even so stated — and now they have received invitations from the Government to a meeting to discuss the reduction of funds and the cleavage of the number of employees. Such questions have also been raised. Reducing wages by firefighter by ear is a great deal of rudeness. Firefighters say, "We worked all night working, working, saving people, equipment, animals that could be saved." Two days ago, we were on our own, and you stressed that you personally attended and also helped save people in one part. I'm asking for an answer: In what way can you with limited means hold back the support of volunteers, including professional firefighters, in short, those who save lives and the objects and objects of our people in certain disasters, natural and other disasters?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u319	Minister Hoys.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this question. First of all, I would say that among the categories of those mentioned in the introduction, I must say that not the fighting organisation, not the veterans of the war for Slovenia, nor the other veteran organisations are among those we consider to be the so-called protection or rescue unit. It maintains, however, that quite a large part of these units are operating on a voluntary basis to protect and rescue in the Slovenian space. So maybe you could start from the back, so from what you asked in the end. I must say that I have already explained the complication on the Defence Committee – I hope quite successfully – and after my assessment of the complication created by this call for wage reduction or the negotiation of public sector employees. The Ministry of Public Administration, together with the competent Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has invited a meeting to discuss possible solutions, which are, of course, due to the fact that the wages for the following year are projected to be lower, sent before the natural perception. This I hope you believe that neither of us, nor the Minister nor the Government, knew that on Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Monday, when the worst was in Slovenia, such a disaster would occur, such a natural disaster. Hence, no one purposed to invite firefighters to meet us after a natural catch or to start negotiating with them after those truly difficult moments and successful interventions. As far as professional firefighters are concerned, I have already said several times, I must make it clear that professional firefighters are simply in the system of public servants, as are soldiers in this system, and of course professional firefighters carry the same burden as they carry, I speak as far as wages are concerned, the same burden as teachers, educators, soldiers, policemen and so on. At the same time, it must be made clear that all professional firefighters in Slovenia are not the burden of this budget. Professional firefighters in Slovenia are in the system of public wages, such as, say, employees by municipalities or administrative units, but for their salaries, for their training, for their equipment they care about local – or I would tell the mayor. We've met with professional firefighters a number of times. I must say that it has never been on the agenda of their wages before, but the issue of the so-called normative work has been on the agenda, i.e. how to ensure adequate equipment, how to provide sufficient training. All this is still ahead of us, and as Minister, I must say, I have no problem in making it possible for them to do so, but, of course, the mayors have some problems with this. Because these mayors of these thirteen and more municipalities, some of the companies that train or finance these professional firefighters, are also financially limited. As far as providing funds is concerned, I must say that we have reduced contributions to all rescue workers in this year or that I would say "per partes" to most of them for their operation there from 3% to 5%. I have estimated that by reducing their training, their readiness for natural disasters, or their active role in such disasters, we have not reduced. It is true that this makes a little less money "deprived" because they cannot buy everything they want, but I have to tell you that I walk a lot in Slovenia, that I attend a lot of all these volunteers or meetings of these volunteers, and I must say that they have been quite well equipped in the past period. In the following years, in 2013 and 2014, at the Ministry of Defence, we have succeeded in keeping all these rescue workers, firefighters, rescue dog guides, the Red Cross and all other organisations at this level, as this year, so it is not a matter of any reduction. Even more! If we can finally bring this budget to life, I can say that we are in this area by 2.3%, so it is about 100,000 euros at the annual level, and this budget has even increased. As for their own, as I would say, the rights that volunteers have in the area of law, which is intended to protect and rescue, I must say that all volunteers are actually given exactly the same rights as professionals, so all volunteers also have refunds on their working days, insurance, medical checks and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u321	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer now. When I mention fighting organisations and veterans, you may not feel so much in the major city centres of this, Mr Minister, but I can assure you that in the area where I come from, at the Schengen border, I believe that the veterans of the wars for Slovenia, who have also played an important role in the independence of Slovenia and have fought for becoming a independent state, are still quite prepared, given that we do not have any soldiers at the border, in the event that something like this should happen, to jump to help. As well as those who are members of the fighting organisations and who are representatives of the younger generations, they show here a great deal of desire to help and volunteer. However, here I have focused mainly on the issue of firefighters and there are certainly firefighters, rescue workers, including blooddressers, those volunteers who expose their health and their lives to help and rescue many times. They certainly deserve all the attention and respect and support, as you yourself have said, even with insurance and such quality equipment, to at least show them this gratitude, I would say, for all of this their sacrifice. Connected to firefighters in Slovenia, who often say they are on strike all the time; we know what the wages of firefighters are if we go to the 21st wage class and so on, how low these revenues are. Therefore, I want and expect – and thank you for your answer – that you will also show all your support for these firefighters in the future, especially those who voluntarily devote such time, their health, their life and all their energy to keeping this in Slovenia so successfully and continuing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u323	Minister Hoys.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u324	Dear Member, yes, that's exactly what you said. By saying the role of an individual organization, of course, I did not mean individuals. The fact is, in general, that someone is a member of a fighting organization, but at the same time a firefighter is also a singer and a singer. Of course, it is logical that we are talking about the fact that it is not against any organisation, I just wanted to say that these organisations that you mentioned are not in the system of protection and rescue, which does not receive any funding from this title. Otherwise, at the very last floods, it turned out to be, frankly, without voluntary firefighters, even without an army, that a lot of people would be treated quite differently than they were. So, our purpose, and also my personal purpose, is to increase existing funds, if you go, if you go. The second thing is about personal income, of course I can't make such promises there. The fact is, unfortunately, professional firefighters will still be in the same pay grade as they are. Personally, I can say that they are too low, as I say, soldiers can be too low, but the fact is, given the current public finances situation, it would be irresponsible of me as minister to promise some things that I will not be able to carry out. And the other thing is, as you know, we've been very committed to maintaining the means of purpose, that is, the means of purpose from the fire fund. We also agreed with Finance Minister Šuštersič that these transfers could go from year to year more than originally intended. At first it was thought that it could only take two twelve, now we have found that we will or have agreed that these things could go to these twelve. Here is the issue, as you know, of public procurement and the like, but in any case we will retain fire funds or fire fund funds as means of purpose, i.e. for other purposes than to transfer them in one phase or in one part of the Fire Department, which then works contracts or arrangements with voluntary fire companies, and in the other part to finance the equipment of both voluntary fire companies and those fire brigades operating at an unprofessional level. While funding from the fire fund transferred directly to the municipalities – as you know – is transferred to municipalities by 70% of the fire fund from this title – and from there the mayors, who then divide these funds by their own, would say not by principles, but by procedures prescribed for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u325	Mr Jožef Kavticnik will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you very much. I also welcome Jozet Tank, who joined us in the National Assembly, so we are not just positive and positive here. Those who are aware of the need to invest in the crisis also know that it is right to invest in knowledge, because investment in knowledge is the best and certainly the most effective investment. That is why we can be sure that in the field of institutions that deal with giving people the opportunity to acquire knowledge, no change takes place overnight. That is why I also asked the Minister in September about the announcement that he would join public institutions. In September he somehow replied to me that he was talking to all the participants responsible and that they were looking for a solution together. Today, or in those days, we have received from those responsible who run institutions that no institution supports this association, that those responsible say that it will not bring rationalisation, but that conditions will be created to make forgiveness easier. That's why I'm asking: Are there positive or negative studies on this merger, i.e. on the effects of this merger? What do these studies say? On the basis of the arguments of those responsible who are persistently opposed to your proposals, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will you heed their warnings? But if you've taken them into account: To what extent and to what extent?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u327	Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much. People in general don't like change. I must have quoted one Italian thinker and diplomat here in the National Assembly, who said somehow that when it comes to changes, these changes have many sharp opponents in those who would know something to lose, and very few silent supporters in those who would gain something. Similarly, these public institutions in the field of education are involved. Nevertheless, we need to know that we have had most of these public institutions for the past 10, 15 years, and the rest are – let us now leave the reasons why. If I listed only their names, it would become quite clear that their activities overlap in many ways. It is the Pedagogical Institute, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the School of Directors, the Andragog Centre of Slovenia for Vocational Education, the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Mobility and European Programmes, Education and Training, the Centre for School and Training Activities and the Republic Audit Centre. Sometimes, at the beginning of these merger discussions, you put the Slovenian Sports Museum and the Planica Sports Institute together, while this government is doing some stupid things to bring together the Pedagogical Institute as a scientific institution, for example, with the Slovenian School Museum – which, by the way, works perfectly and I invite you, I've seen it for the last time on the Happy Day of Culture, it's quite close to Parliament – and the Planica Sports Institute, of course they were never our ideas. The fact is that the Sports Institute Planica remains independent, the Slovenian School Museum remains, the Pedagogical Institute remains independent as a scientific institution, which is also funded by the ARRS. The Republic Audit Centre remains independent, the Centre for School and Schooling remains independent and the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Mobility and European Programmes, Education and Training remains independent. We therefore join the Slovenian Institute of Education, the School of Directors, the Andragog Centre of Slovenia and the Centre for Vocational Education, all in order to obtain one strong institution, which professionally supports all activities related to the entire vertical of education, from kindergartens to higher education and to a lesser extent perhaps higher education. Because we find that the problems are such that we cannot divide things so that one would deal only with principals, one would deal only with vocational education and so on. The problems are that they need to be linked, and I am sure that this new institution will bring some new quality in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u329	Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you for the answer, which did not fully satisfy me, because I asked you if there were studies on positive and negative effects of integration. Since September, I have also asked you about the possible financial effects of the merger, and I have also tolerated that you do not know that yet, so today I would like to know if you can tell me that too. Look, the Andragog Center is still very well organized and otherwise integrated into the education system. It has an extremely well-prepared strategy, dealing with more than 250,000 listeners. It complements all the education that the education system may have missed or have been abandoned at the time of education. That's why I want to know: Are you perhaps departing from our country's education strategy, based on lifelong education, because it is the Andragog Centre that somehow encourages and sustains this lifelong education? That is why I am asking you, and I want answers to the questions already asked. At the same time, I'm asking you: How do you plan to solve the strategy and problem of the Andragog Centre in this new public institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u331	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u332	I would like to make it very clear that all the functions of all the institutions that we are merging are being maintained, but there will be synergies, so that savings can occur, especially where the administration can be combined, where there will be fewer directors and a large part of this savings that the public sector needs to achieve in the coming year, 12% will be possible precisely because these institutions will join together and there will be a lot of work that has also been duplicated in the administration, and a lot of expertise can be done together. In short, it is not about abandoning tasks, but about combining and synergies, which will bring added value to the extended mission of this new institution. We are confident that the new institution will help to improve the quality of educational institutions, to provide comprehensive care for all generations, not only for those who study at work, also in lifelong learning and also for the more effective integration of education with the labour market. Some of the comments on the tasks and organisation of the new institution that the directors of the current institutions have forwarded have also been taken into account and incorporated into the founding act. Part of or result of these discussions is, for example, that ambition, which is to unite, has been reduced. The Pedagogical Institute, as a scientific and, above all, a scientific research institution, has remained outside this new institution, while others, which are more supportive, are together, and I am sure that the effects will be better than those of the current separate institutions that duplicate their functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u333	The last question of the evening will be posed by a mag. Stanko Stepišnik and he will be answered by the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's decent, considering the last question is that it's shorter. Dear Minister, economic indicators have not been good lately, which also shows the number of employees in the real sector. We had 610 thousand employees at the best of times, currently about 440 thousand. In this regard, I ask you: What concrete measures will your ministry take next year, 2013 which will encourage employment in the real sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u335	Short, but difficult. Minister Zerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u336	Mr Stepišnik and I have talked a lot about this subject, and we are practically talking about the same subject on each of the questions sent. Indeed, the business environment is difficult, we have found today that it is not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe that this economic activity is unfortunately cooling down. I have repeatedly answered your question about what we have done so far, and I will not mention any more packages or packages, I will focus mainly on what we have tried, of course with the minimum resources we have available, of course I would be happy if I had more available, we could do more, and that is not possible. So what have we actually done with the minimum resources through public tenders, or how many new jobs are envisaged in the real sector? And I'm going to walk through these public invitations, and I think we've talked about this here before, but no, we'll do it again. An invitation to tender to promote foreign direct investment in Slovenia in 2012 will create 500 new jobs. The call for the co-financing of initial investment by companies and the creation of new jobs in the area of implementation of the Development Support Act for the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015 – what has been announced this year – will create 120 new jobs. The public tender, so-called P2A, is a subsidy to start new innovative companies and is expected to create 200 new jobs. Financing of technological and development projects – 1050 new jobs; public call for investment, so-called TNI 2012, 300 new jobs, public call for employment in development companies, so-called KORP, 320 new development staff. These calls, mostly such as those, may be slightly adjusted, of course, based on the experience we have gained from this year, will also be repeated in the coming year, with some others, given some of the increased resources that we have available and also the resources that we will redeploy from European resources. In short, let us encourage here, especially at this technological and innovative level. Secondly, what we have already mentioned to promote employment in the real sector, we have talked about internationalisation, i.e. promoting exports, and I will not repeat this, but mainly in promoting foreign direct investment. I am pleased that, despite this complicated time, despite these protests that are taking place, but – I have mentioned this many times – there is an interest in foreign direct investment. I said, last time I explained to you, we have four major foreign direct investment at this time, two in the ranking of fifty million, two essential, significantly more. I hope that the Commission dealing with this will conclude as soon as possible and that we will be able to talk about going into realisation or subsidisation or aid in accordance with the specific procedure of the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment. This is certainly one of the important segments, but I can say that new ones are emerging. Will these new ones, who are outside the four that I have already talked about, or will come from this serious, be seen in the coming days and weeks. I will personally try to do more in the field of foreign direct investment. Whether I will succeed in this, of course not only depends on me, but mainly on the other side. I will continue with these visits to large corporations, because I think this is necessary, and I say that we have missed a lot of things here. The following visits are already in preparation, and we will see what time will bring. As you know, we are preparing together with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia a very new, at the operational level, so-called [[sign for the end of the debate]] the fourth package of measures to promote the economy. I hope that we will identify those who give the highest added value in the given situation and that this employment, of course, will not only be employment [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u337	Mag. Stanko Stepišnik
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u338	Thank you so much for saying that. In Slovenia we currently have one hundred and eleven thousand 471 and 615 vacancies. There's a lot of unemployed people out there. Forty thousand young people, somewhere by the age of fifty-five. Are these lost generations? Statistical data show that the average age of permanent employees is rising due to soft methods of forgiveness and non-employment of young people in companies. It's logical and normal. But it's not right. A particular problem is professionally qualified, where demand is high, but it is not professional staff. Is it not a time to put pressure on a different initial schooling, an example of Austria, Germany, who could get their young into factories? What measures will you take together with other ministries to ensure that the supply and demand for personnel is coordinated? Is it possible to solve compulsory traineeships in a triangular employer-trainer-state? Employers would, for example, offer programmes and mentoring for different professions, traineeships would be satisfied with minimum costs and the state would help with tax incentives or other incentives. In this way, we would suck over ten thousand young people into the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u339	Minister Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u340	I agree absolutely with you as far as education is concerned. Otherwise, I as an engineer myself may not be the most objective here, because absolutely more people or more young people would be directed to technology, science and similar studies and tended to this balance, which strongly leaned into the social professions more into the natural professions. But this is more of a question for my colleague Zig, and we are talking a lot about this. As I know, some measures in this regard have already been taken already to target more young people in the professions that the economy actually needs. We do not need the personnel that we will "produce" for the employment agency. Also in terms of traineeships; I absolutely support traineeships. I had the opportunity to be a trainee for one year, or at that time, because the times were also so unkind, free of charge, today this volunteering internship has received great criticism. For a year I was a trainee for no payment, and I was glad to be able to introduce myself to the employer, show my knowledge, my thinking, and therefore get a job for an indefinite period of time. In short, I've talked to my colleague Visian about this and I would personally support it. But I'd like to tell you an interesting story that I heard a week ago. A construction company near Rogaška Slatina asked 30 construction workers at the employment office to hire them because they were obviously in business. Apparently, some construction companies have business. And you won't believe it. They didn't get the builders. They didn't get 30 builders at the plant! They got butchers, shopkeepers and everything, just not what they actually needed. Looks like those builders got away somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u341	Mag. Stephen procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u342	I may be wrong, but I listened, I guess. In accordance with Article 245 I would like to request a written reply mainly to this part of compulsory traineeship and apprenticeship in Slovenia, because this would help me much further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-17-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u343	We have exhausted the list of questions sent, so I am terminating this item on the agenda. We will continue and conclude it tomorrow when we decide on the proposals for procedural decisions. I'm also interrupting the session. We'll resume tomorrow at nine o'clock. Dear colleagues, good night!
