ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is on questions from Members and Members of Parliament to Prime Minister of the Government. Under this item, the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who I welcome in the National Assembly, will answer the opposition's questions and questions raised by the ruling coalition. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, will ask him the question first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, the decline in economic growth and the increase in unemployment in Slovenia is a fact. It is also true that the measures proposed by the Government so far have not resolved this. On the contrary, the Financial Balance Act has even caused the decline in economic growth to be even greater than it would have been if we had maintained proper growth or maintained pensions and salaries. We have a feeling that you are preparing or heading together to sell the remaining assets in the Republic of Slovenia and thus to carry out the so-called third phase of privatisation. This privatisation will take place in a non-transparent manner after being dealt with in the National Assembly, in an untransparent manner, in which Holding will not have any responsibility to the National Assembly, will have no control by the Court of Auditors, and Holding will be able to pay wages indefinitely both to the Administration and to the members of the Supervisory Board, because they will not be subject to a law that otherwise applies to the State authorities and limits the level of wages. The fact is that we have all these solutions in the Capital Investment Management Agency, which is, of course, subject to the Court of Auditors' review, the Agency can also be supervised by the Anti-Corruption Commission, including the National Investigation Office. The holding of such control, of course, will not have and will in fact be audited only by a commercial auditor. And we are concerned, Mr President, whether there is a reason for you to defend the establishment of a holding company as a stock company on the basis of the practice seen at the time of your first government, when Kad and the Court sold Mercator without checking the price and consequences for this society. However, the consequences may also be the loss of the entire agro-food chain in Slovenia. We are particularly concerned about this fact, of course, if there is to be an imprudent sale, that we also see some sort of sample connection with you talking about selling government bonds worth $1.5 billion in America, and at the same time Goldman Sachs, who is involved in this sale, should also assess the value of Insurance Company Triglav, Petrol, Telekom. These are, of course, questions that concern us very much. That is why, Mr President, I ask you: How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to ensure greater transparency in the management of state property on the basis of the envisaged new legal solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u3	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you for asking. This is a topic that you discussed for a long time last week, and I believe that the competent ministry has clarified exactly what is the difference between the current situation in the management of state assets and the situation introduced by the new law. There are five important differences, today we have an untransparent, unclear, non-creditable situation in the management of state property and also the business results of these state-owned companies are similar. By the way, honourable Member, all sales of state property during my previous term have been successful. For the shares we gave back then, we got five to ten times more than these shares are worth today, those not sold in the same companies after three catastrophic years of government led by your party. Today, as I have said before, this governance of state assets is untransparent, as the independent foreign financial institutions also point out. We have the same investments, which are also distributed under the responsibility of four different operators, called AUKN, Kad, Soda and these special management companies. We are now introducing a system when the same investment will only be under one operator or one institution. Given that the same investments are the same, the real shares of the same company, today in portfolios of different operators, can and has occurred in the past that the representatives of these institutions, although having the same owner, have acted differently in the same country, in different assemblies, and have also voted differently, causing damage to the owner. From now on, this will not be possible because there will be only one controller and the vote will be united and credible. So far, the management of state property has been subject to general guidelines without any specific safeguards, and the new law will be followed by guidelines for managing investment. So here you will adopt these guidelines, they will be published in public and will be known in advance what the guidelines are, and will be decided by the National Assembly. When it came, or when the possibility of privatisation opened up also in your previous mandate, there were tenderers coming and they had several different interlocutors here in Slovenia, representing different views on the sale of shares of the same company's State-owned investment. As a result, there was complete confusion and often an uncreditable picture taken by these potential investors from the country. Now it will be one interlocutor and, of course, this procedure will be more transparent. So far, control of the administration has been virtually disabled. We never really knew exactly what was going on at the National Assembly. If Kad knew what he was doing, he didn't know what the Court was doing, if he knew what the AUKN was doing, he didn't know what other owners were doing. Now it's concentrated, the control council will be heterogeneous. The opposition also had its member and direct control through the institution of the appointment of the Supervisory Board, as envisaged. So far, let's say in the previous term, when we were the opposition, this was not even possible. In the 2004-2008 mandate, we also allowed the opposition to appoint members, experts of its kind or those she proposed to the supervisory councils, capital companies, compensation companies, electricity companies and the rest, and the opposition appointed this and had a direct view. We haven't had this opportunity in your previous term. We now introduce such an option institutionally. This will significantly increase transparency.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u5	Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you. I would, of course, like to ask an additional question. Mr President, let it be clear that we have expected the Social Democrats in this call that we will first adopt a capital investment management strategy in the National Assembly, which will show what we want with Telekom, with infrastructure, arch, airport and so on. And then decide how to manage and what to sell to this property. This isn't happening, so we're talking about doing things in our head, working in a way that we don't know what it is. And that's what worries us the most. As far as single management is concerned, it must be made very clear that Kad is responsible for the pension system and this is a long-term system. The Slovenian compensation company is responsible for denationalisation and is of short-term interest. How are you going to reconcile this, just in order for someone to order: First, we will save the denationalisation of € 1.6 billion, and then we will save the pensions if we save them, sometime later, because the share of the insurance company can also be sold in between. And we're worried because there's really no data on how this is going to happen. Both the holding company and the company itself for the management of bad claims in banks shows that you do not want to be controlled by the Court of Auditors. And you're shutting down the agency in asset management, and of course you're planning the agency at the banks first, and then you shut it down. That there is no evidence that the Secretary of State participates in contravention of the law of the congregations of the New Ljubljana Bank and other companies, in knowledge or ignorance with the Minister of Finance, in violation of the law. I'm asking you: Will you resolve Mr. Krusac's Secretary of State if he turns out to have acted illegally? And if he was acting under the authority of the Minister of Finance, will you relieve the Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u7	Mr. Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation. How surprised a person could be that an honourable Member is more concerned about this and it is more criminal for him to have been a secretary of state if he was, I don't know if he was, at some assembly, but all that has been happening in these banks for the past three, four years, which is why we have a problem today that we are saving, I will say, with wider assistance. When the Capital Investment Management Agency Act was adopted in the previous term, I was the president of the opposition party. Not a minute did the government coalition take to harmonise this law with us as with the opposition. Not a minute. Not one minute. All the proposals we made in the procedure were also rejected. Unlike this exercise in the previous term, the current government coalition has taken into account 11 important comments and proposals made to this Slovenian State Holding Act. I can just count them. Initially, it was thought that part of this holding company was also a bank rehabilitation agency, and you protested and eliminated this part. It's two special laws. Remember that meeting in July with the presidents of the parliamentary parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, you were present. You demanded that the capital company remain a separate legal entity within the holding company. That's settled. You demanded that the Blue Insurance Company remain a subsidiary of the Capital Society, that's what's left. You demanded that the mandatory pension fund stay with the Capital Society, d. d., that's what's left. You have requested that the motion to recall the members of the Supervisory Board may be made by all the proposers and not only by the Government, we have accepted this proposal. You demanded that an absolute majority in the National Assembly be required to elect the members of the Supervisory Board voted on individually. We have accepted this proposal. You demanded that the anti-corruption clause be sharpened, the formulation was sharpened. You requested that the NEK Decomposition Fund be included in the holding. You requested that the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board be appointed from among the members elected on a proposal from the Organisations of Pensioners at State level, and this proposal was adopted. You requested that the holding company should inform the public in accordance with the rules applicable to public shareholders, and this proposal was adopted. In short, 11 important proposals that have substantially changed the law's configuration, as first proposed by the opposition, have been taken into account. In fact, there is no matter which is disregarded, so I do not understand this opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber has a proposal to hold a debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Indeed, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a discussion be held on the response of the President of the Government, which, of course, I was not satisfied with. My comment is also, of course, that probably due to such a response, the fact that during this period, when we were discussing holding, was the percentage that it was in America. And we wanted, not least as the Group of Social Democrats, as the opposition, to hold this debate in the presence of the President of the Government, so that there would be no confusion as to what we have discussed and what we have accepted. In fact, Mr President, what you have listed is partly true, but not in that key part that you did not list. In fact, the Government still has complex control over both the holding company and the probability that it will also receive today after the adoption of the Company Act for the enforcement of bank claims or the understatement of the "weak bank". The fact is, the National Assembly has no control over the sale of 12 to 13 billion assets that we still have. The fact is that there is a transitional period, Mr President, when even the Government's consent is not necessary to agree on the disposal of property, nor does the consent of the National Assembly. This legal void is still present in this law. It was partially filled, but to a large extent there is still the possibility of negotiating under the table. And that's what we're worried about when we've always said that an opportunity can also make a thief sell this property. With regard to the fact that the Minister of Finance is to explain to us the difference between the Capital Investment Management Agency and the Slovenian State Holding Agency, I can say peacefully that he failed to explain to us throughout the summer when we coordinated and participated in these coordinations. So no one has explained what the advantage of holding is, where there will be greater transparency, where there will be greater efficiency. In particular, we have not received an answer as to how you can prove this, because there will be no appropriate institution that can also justify this. It will be a business secret, as a rule, still because it is not a state authority, but it is a business and there is always a possibility of concealing the data. In short. I really want these discussions in the presence of the President of the Government, and I hope that our procedural proposal will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you. We will decide on your procedural proposal half an hour after the end of agenda item 3a, i.e. in the framework of the votes. The following question will be asked by Mr Jani Möderndorfer to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers! In the National Assembly, I've already asked you, President of the Government, about personnel matters within your office. And I got an answer that didn't satisfy me at the time, and we couldn't have a general debate that would have a broader dimension, but that's why I'm going to be a little bit more specific today in certain things, but not just about your cabinet, but we're just talking about the whole government or all the ministries. Let me start with your coalition contract. The coalition has committed itself, in short you have committed yourself to employing exclusively in terms of your ability and personal integrity, thus breaking down the system of cassation. Personneling does not only mean setting up, but it also means solving and, above all, the reasons why we sometimes do things. What is important is, of course, that it was already very clear at the first meeting of the Government that you have made three human resources moves that are not yet understandable today, but we have somehow understood that you have made it clear and communicated to the Slovenian public what your basic work will be. From 10 February to today, you have made about 200 human resources exchanges, those decided directly by the Government itself. At the same time, we can rightly ask ourselves whether it was the exchange of state officials for incompetence or dishonesty itself. I have to say that we've been monitoring the last six months, what would be the case, first or second, and I can only find out that it wasn't really one and not the other, but it was, in particular, purely for the criteria, that's political suitability. The area of staffing has thus become one of those, and thus the most obvious gap between words and actions, since the installation of political loyal personnel has fundamentally led the government's activities. Yes, of course it is, for we actually keep listening to the same observations, whenever this question is asked, how did the previous government, or the previous government, and so on. In short, I'm not personally interested in some rivalry, instead of talking about what it's like to be in this government, because the past doesn't interest me personally, at least not in this context. So in these predictions we have a very clear question, the question that follows, which is that we are really interested in, I personally ask you, the President of the Government: What is the estimated number of public officials to lose their jobs with all the forecasts of both your ministers and the entire government? What were those criteria that would determine who would stay and who would have to go? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u13	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u14	With regard to the first part or introductory part of this issue, I could only say that I am glad that there are bright exceptions in this country, the real islands of non-political recruitment, where people are employed solely by professional belief and mainly by the opposition. One such example is, for example, the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is such a great case of a non-political and, I'll say, professional recruitment. So I apologize for the fact that we are slightly worse than this and because we think that in many institutions in this country there are no people in the leading cities who have justified their trust. Because if it were, Slovenia wouldn't be in the same situation as it is. Here, it will be necessary to continue to seek better solutions, not more politically appropriate, but humanely better and more capable people, from banks to many state institutions. As far as the question is concerned, which has also been announced. With regard to the so-called announced layoff in the public sector or in the state administration, I propose that we all look at this graph on the screen together, which shows what has been the trend of employment in individual sectors in Slovenia since the start of the economic crisis. There you can see that all the curves went down, most of the employment in construction, then in processing, even in trade in the second wave of the crisis. The only trend that has a upward trend is employment in the public sector. At the start of the crisis, Slovenia lost 150,000 jobs in the economy, some 60,000 Slovenian citizens are more unemployed than previously employed in the economy, and some 90 thousand jobs are less issued for foreigners. It is said that 150,000 people do less work in Slovenia in production. On the other hand, we have produced a significant percentage of the higher number of employees in the public sector during this period. If things were to go well and if we had economic growth and employment were to grow in the economy at that time, that would not be wrong, we would say that we are improving the quality of services and so on. In the situation in which we are and which is shown by this chart, of course, there is a continuous drilling of the hole in Slovenian public finances. This will require rationalisation here, and the government will be forced to reduce in the budgets for the next two years the amount of wage funds or public sector labour costs in the light of the situation in recent years. And the National Assembly will have to deal with and adopt such budgets in one way or another, because the accounts do not come out. We are talking about a reduction in wages or the cost of money to cover public sector labour costs. We are not talking about the number or percentage of those who could possibly lose their jobs. There are other options, other reserves. In some cases, however, these other reserves are not available and the number of employees will have to be slightly reduced according to estimates that will not be made by the Government, but every single segment of the public sector or specific institution is seductive. At this point, we can still talk about a percentage that does not represent a drastic cut. However, if we do not stop this trend, we will continue to monitor the decline in the number of employees in the economy and the rise in the number of employees in the public sector, but we will come into the situation that some other European countries have come into, and drastic cuts are needed. For the time being, this is still manageable without much drasticness. However, if we continue to ignore this problem, as has been the case over the past three years, or follow a completely wrong policy of increasing these costs, then there is no help for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u15	Request for a supplement. Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u16	Dear President, whether you don't understand me or you can't hear me. I leave this to you now, and I don't even need this answer, but I need an answer to what I asked you. I asked you what the criteria and criteria would be. I understand everything, including your graphs. I might even understand if I knew how much and when and where. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Government is obliged to submit a draft or draft State budget by 1 October at the latest. We still don't have that today, so I don't even see the numbers. You know something we don't know what we should know and should be informed by the rules of procedure. However, if I go specifically to the case, why did I actually ask this question? See, a very eloquent example of the Government's recruitment is the case of this Mr Marjan Hrvatina, who took the lead in the Maritime Administration on 1 June. Three years ago, this same gentleman was fired from the same administration for abuse of the service card. In addition, the court sentenced him to four months on probation for fraud. A month after his conviction, your government appointed him as V.D. Director without reservations, opened the door wide for appointment, and the current tendering conditions are completely open for the appointment of the Director, among which it appears to be the most important, since of course we can only think about this political suitability. Croatia is the chairman of your party's Committee of Cyprus. That's an indisputable fact. For this reason, Madam President, I am interested in a very simple matter: Is this one of the criteria and criteria that will continue? If you compare with the Municipality of Ljubljana, I did not ask you this, and it is sad that the government wants to compare itself with the congregation because we have more congregations, and there is no need for that, I can only answer you simply. We haven't changed your professional staff and we don't approve of political change. So, I'm talking about [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u17	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u18	At first I thought that the honourable Member was concerned about the general situation. If he is concerned about specific cases, we can discuss this for a long time. This particular person you are talking about has actually been sentenced conditionally for exceeding the 40 euro limit on the service card. We can discuss whether this is sufficient reason for someone to be excluded from procedures and the right to appointment despite his or her professional skills. There are no legal barriers here. On the other hand, we can discuss whether bankers who have made billions of holes in Slovenian banks in the past century have been licensed to remain members of the supervisory boards or members of the administrations of Slovenian banks with all the ratings and so on. We can discuss these criteria and discuss whether we have the same criteria for all citizens in this country. But I am not defending this particular case. I would be more pleased to find a better solution there, but I trust the Minister that he has gathered what he had best. But the same topic does not solve this crucial problem that we all have here. This graph you saw on the screen is not our graph. These are state information in this country, which is also yours. The fact that we are running out of money to finance the scope of public services we have is not only the problem of this government, but also the problem of this national assembly, is the problem of all citizens. And we need to address this problem together and find solutions. Indeed, the government has not yet proposed a budget for the next two years, because we simply did not want to make a budget based on spring forecasts because we knew that autumn would be worse, and in this case we should withdraw the documents and re-invest them in the procedure. We now have these forecasts, the government will deal with the budgetary documents on Thursday and send them to the National Assembly. There will be no delay, the procedure will be normal and Slovenia will receive a budget for the next two years before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u19	Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u20	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general debate be held. In particular, allow me to propose this precisely because the President of the Government himself said that for the first time in this short time he could not respond to anything that he actually wanted. And above all, so that we can once in this society, because we never get to that point, we can seriously discuss in this direction how, in fact, every once in a while, the government should be in charge or how to get rid of the fact that it actually has to fill, I will say, these desires and the needs of some of the human resources aspirations it has, thinking that it will solve all the problems. Of course, I agree that this is a general problem in Slovenia and that, in fact, forgiveness in Slovenia is still an interesting issue, especially in the light of when, in fact, the time before the budget or with the actors who are – with the social partners – is still important to discuss and agree with them on how and how this will be done if it is done. Especially because we do not really know when, where, and how this will be done, except for the number of wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. The third question will be raised by Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Your government, as well as this Parliament, has been making extraordinary efforts in recent months to finally stop these unrestrained negative economic trends. Of course, in this light, a number of negative measures must be taken that are unpleasant for everyone, but they are urgently needed to make a difference in the future. We in Novi Slovenija in some way estimate that the path to improving the economic situation in some way follows in three steps. The first step is definitely to stabilise public finances. We have already done this in one part with the Public Finance Balance Act. And the second part of this step will be done with the budgets that we are preparing for the coming years. The second step that seems important to us is to correct various systemic errors and make structural adjustments. There will be a short pension reform ahead of us, labour market reform and, last but not least, there will be a law before us to help banks recover. And the last, third, also an important step in improving the current situation is to encourage or facilitate investments, infrastructure investments. That is why we, the distinguished Prime Minister of New Slovenia, are interested in: What are those infrastructure projects to which the Government will pay special attention in the coming months and do everything it can, of course, to achieve these infrastructure projects?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u23	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you so much for asking. Just at the time you asked this question, the mission of the International Monetary Fund, which concludes its visit to Slovenia, presents its assessment of the state and measures proposed by the Government. It follows from this assessment that we have a very similar view of the causes of this crisis, of the state in which Slovenia is and also of the measures necessary to bring Slovenia out of this crisis. The International Monetary Fund underlines the need for all these five measures, namely the restructuring of banks and the way state assets are managed, the pension reform and labour market reform and the second step in consolidating public finances with the budget for the next two years, to be implemented as quickly and as thoroughly as possible. The mission also emphasises in relation to what you are asking, that there is an urgent need to add investment and to bring fresh capital into the country. This is also partly the answer to the question of Mr Webra, a fellow Member of Parliament. Looking at the state of our public finances and our budgetary options, it is clear that there will be no major investment from the budget. The only priority that has been possible within these contractions and poor economic forecasts is the provision of funds for own participation in the drawing-up of European funds, which are still substantially available from the current financial perspective. Slovenia will also continue to receive more for the financial perspective by 2020 than it will pay for the European budget. And our priority is not to leave this unused, to invest it as soon as possible and to reserve funds, and it is possible that there is somewhere else where we need to seal the belt for one more hole so that we do not miss this opportunity. The International Monetary Fund mission also points out that everything needs to be done to improve the business environment in our country and that transparent procedures for privatising much of the state's assets are also under way. And this is the main source where it's possible to get investment funds. Also for infrastructure projects. This country has already adopted a resolution on national development projects since 2006, which is still as current as it was then. We still know what our energy balance is and how much more energy we will need in the next 30, 40 years. We know where people don't have roads that allow for some normal connection to this central highway cross. We know the state of Slovenian railways. We know what our needs are when it comes to infrastructure in the public sector, in health care, in education and so on. We know what the environment needs to be done to make economic development in this country not only faster but also more evenly, because it is not so now. And here are these 35 development projects, mostly infrastructure projects, from a resolution that has been waiting for better times in recent years or a better government that will be able to do so. Priorities should be established in these times. In some ways, however, the priorities provide for the possibility of funding in these times. Priority will be given to projects that can be financed from European funds, projects that can be financed from concessions to be awarded for the management of an existing motorway network and projects that can be financed by foreign investment. Even if we feel that something is more necessary, this order will have to be followed because we have no other. The government visits one of the Slovenian regions every month, and then we will discuss very carefully what is the real priority in that part of Slovenia. We're not just looking at this priority from Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u25	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u26	When we talk about infrastructure projects, we all talk a lot about the third pier, and the second track, and so on, so that I don't reheat and open these things. In recent times, however, media and even in our debates have talked a great deal about the so-called Emonic project, which is supposed to have special meaning. I want to know: How do you feel about this project, and where might things get stuck so it doesn't come to it?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u27	Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u28	This is a project that did not require public investment or a smaller part in the form of land value, I think, Slovenian railways. This new railway station with accompanying facilities in Ljubljana should already be built, according to the original timetable, an invitation to tender was issued, an investor selected and complications started. After the invitation to tender was completed, the Ljubljana municipality raised the municipal contribution, which encouraged the project for a few 10 million, they did not want to compete with the Stožica shopping centre, which, of course, is not. The City Council adopted a different urban plan and demanded a deepening of the tracks, which further encouraged the project and placed the investor in a situation where additional resources had to be sought. In addition, it began to be complicated by the issue of a building permit because there was a dispute between the owners of two parcels, the owner of the Ljubljana Bus Station, which was privatized at that time, but I do not know when, but the Ljubljana Bus Station was privatized at that time and then filed an action for some parcels. According to the speed of our courts, the matter has stalled, and the 250 million-euro project has stood. At that time, the economic situation also changed and the investor, who had previously been willing to invest exclusively on his private capital, was involved in an international corporation, now probably not enough resources to complete the financial structure. At one of the future meetings, the government will address this situation, see if there is any possibility of further involvement of state aid funds or European funds and try to contribute. We also appeal to the Ljubljana Municipality again from this city to reduce the municipal contribution, allowing this investment to contribute to Ljubljana's decent railway station, but not more to the Austro-Hungarian facility, to make a real contribution to the common well-being, but not only to its own benefits. This Emonica project is one of the sad stories from a long list of missed opportunities, where we could have a lot of work at the time for the construction sector as well, 2,000 new jobs, and this has been missed due to bargaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u29	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. This concludes this agenda item. I would also inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Tina Komel, mag. Melita Župevc, Dr. Andrei Črnak Meglič, Roberto Battelli, Roman Jakič and from 3 p.m. to Matevž Frangež and Samo Bevk. We continue with the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles. Before we begin the debate, I would like to propose the following. In view of the fact that the parliamentary groups have not announced time for discussion on this agenda item, I propose that, on the basis of Article 67, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, any declared debater may only discuss an amendment once. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u30	I'm sorry, Mr President, but what you've done now actually goes beyond any limit of common sense in the work of the National Assembly. We have witnessed the last time that the only Group of Social Democrats participated in the second debate on the amendments to the Bank Recovery Act, and that is when the majority, 50 to 6, voted that we can only discuss one issue once, and that is the most important issue in Slovenia, for which even the President of the Government does not know exactly what it is. How can you propose a limit at the outset without consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups without asking the opposition. You're going as easy as a roller coaster over this marriage. Excuse me, this goes beyond the common sense of running the National Assembly. I don't understand what you're doing. And I'm protesting this and I hope you'll withdraw this motion. Next thing you know, I'd like to warn you. Do we have a third-reading amendment on the table?Oh, my God! Yes, take care of God's will first to get the amendments, then we can discuss this item on the agenda! And I'm proceding you to suspend the session until we get the amendments to the table. How can you even suggest that you limit us to the debate, but we still don't have any amendments on the table?Oh, my God! I don't understand! We agreed at the last consultation we had with you on this item of the agenda that by 12 noon the opposition will receive the amendments that we will be discussing today. It's 2:30 today, Tuesday, we still don't have any amendments on the table. And you're even hoping to suggest that you limit us to the debate. That only once 5 minutes each Member may speak on this matter. How can I?Oh, my God! I really expect you to withdraw that proposal. I suggest, however, that you suspend the meeting on a case-by-case basis, because the conditions for work are not met until we have received these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u31	Dear Mr Weber, all of this could also be said in a slightly more peaceful way. So, I suggest we calm the ball down. I'll take your concerns under advisement. You're right in a lot of ways, especially since the amendments aren't on the table right now. That's why I'm adjourning the session. I'm calling for a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, immediately, in room 217. We continue the adjourned meeting at 13:00 and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the interrupted agenda item 3.a. We consulted the leaders of the parliamentary groups, where all the leaders gave their opinion. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Janko Webr's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you, President, for your word. In accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that until the amendments we have received at the moment, the Proposals for a Law on the Measures of the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen the Stability of Banks continue to define the parent working body and then, of course, continue the meeting of the National Assembly. In accordance with this agreement, I should also immediately say that I support the decision to continue the meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m., which is also in line with the agreement we had already agreed last week, so that the amendments should be given by Monday by 12 noon, so yesterday at 12 o'clock we should have amendments. With this, I would say, also in line with the agreement that as the opposition we have at least one day of opportunity to study the amendments. However, procedurally, firstly, I propose, the President, that the National Assembly decide to meet the mother labour body and to identify itself to the amendments tabled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-02-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u34	Good. Let's go in one order at a time. First of all, I should like to inform you that I am withdrawing the proposal to limit the debate on this agenda item so that any declared debater can only discuss once. Secondly, I am putting to the vote Mr Weber's procedural proposal to define the amendments as the parent working body after the fourth paragraph of Article 144. I hope we're done. Please check your cards. We will vote on Mr Weber's procedural proposal to require the National Assembly from the home labour body to define the amendments tabled in the third reading. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 8, for 41. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 41.]] I find that the procedural proposal has not been put to the vote. Now, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Frangež, I don't think we're going to have to, let me say what I have to say first, and then we'll move on. See, on Friday, at the informal consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we agreed that it was a gentlemen's agreement that the coalition's amendments would be tabled by Monday by 12 p.m., so that all Members, including the opposition, could see and possibly submit their amendments. In fact, these amendments have only been tabled today and it seems right for Members and Members, both coalition and opposition in particular, to be able to do so. At this point, I interrupt the agenda. I'm also adjourning the session, and we'll continue tomorrow at 11:00.
