ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u1	Good morning, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Janja Klasinc, Alenka Pavlič, Jakob Preseknik, Jožef Kavtičnik and at the beginning of the Borut Pahor meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the reverse law. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 45 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor first to the representative of the Government. I see the Secretary of State is with us. Urush Rozich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the Commercial Law follows the following main solutions. The current mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is abolished and voluntary membership is introduced. This abolition of compulsory membership is a result of a referendum between the members of the Chamber, which has been determined by a very large percentage to prefer voluntary membership and no longer compulsory membership. At the same time, the Ministry or Government, when preparing the draft law, wanted to follow certain points of reference in the organisation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and identified the Chamber of Commerce and Industry as the sole representative of the Chamber of Commerce and granted it the exercise as well as the existing public powers. Entry into the trade register of similar activities and activities for which appropriate professional qualifications are not required shall be deleted and entry for those trade activities where professional qualifications are still required. The definition of craftsmanship is also changed, in a way that, according to the new version, does not refer to the classification of the activity itself, but refers to the way in which the activities in craftsmen are carried out. In particular, we have specified that the property of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry should not be shared in any way among the members. Even if there had been rationalisation of the network at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this could only happen in a way that would have connected the property of a particular Regional Chamber to the property of another Regional Chamber or the Chamber of Slovenia. new public powers are added to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise for the issue of EU certificates, i.e. a certificate of lawful conduct of regulated activities in the Republic of Slovenia, a declaration of cross-border occasional exercise of crafts activities and recognition of professional qualifications. The transitional provisions stipulate that the Statute of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry shall be aligned within 6 months with the new law and that the withdrawal from membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry shall be possible within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. But the rest, if you'll excuse me, is in the debate itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to all present. In opening, let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support the first reading and the law in the first reading on amendments and amendments to the Commercial Law, and we expect it to be complemented in its consideration. The Chambers shall be legal persons in which economic operators unite, that is, chambers of commerce, or individuals who perform a particular profession shall be called professional chambers. Depending on their status, we separate public chambers and private chambers. Public chambers or public forms of association are characterised by the fact that they are established by law as legal entities of public law, that they have public powers in which they decide on the rights and obligations of members to carry out certain tasks in the public interest. Private chambers have a basis in the Anglo-American model, which, in the absence of compulsory membership, focuses on a strong market interest. Private associations are characterised by the fact that they are based on the voluntary and free activities of their members and, above all, pursue the interests of the members who have thus become members of each association. Public controversy in previous years, especially in recent months, has focused on the need to renovate or to change the existing assembly system, which reflects a type of deficiency. Since the implementation of the law governing the Chamber of Commerce has been assessed so far as to contribute to the promotion of the efficiency of the Chambers of Economic Affairs and to more effective cooperation in the search and expression of common interests and to the decommissioning of the economy, the proposal suggests that the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia may also have similar positive effects. However, since the Constitutional Court has on several occasions taken the view that indeed well-founded different situations are possible to regulate differently and even necessarily different legal arrangements, the proposer decided in the regulation of the crafts and craftsmen system to take into account in particular the specificity of the structure of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In view of the above, the applicant decided to follow the regulation of the Chamber of Social Affairs of Slovenia, which, despite the status of a legal person of public law, brings together members on a voluntary basis. The coalition partners have undertaken in the coalition contract to adopt solutions whereby membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be voluntary, except in the event that the members of this Chamber will decide on a mandatory membership by a referendum at the level of integration in the Chamber. In a consultation referendum on the form of membership at the level of the crafts and craftsmen’s assembly system, nearly 70 per cent of voters voted in favour of voluntary membership. For this reason, the applicant joined the amendments to the trade law with a view to repealing the provisions relating to compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The proposal follows the objective of simplifying the business environment, greater opportunities for finding work, employment and, above all, greater competitiveness of Slovenian craftsmen. In view of that proposal, the law in force removes all craft activities for which there is no sufficient public interest to justify their regulation through a crafts permit. The purpose of the bill is also to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European Union law, i.e. the proposal regulates the application of temporary provision of services in accordance with the Internal Market Services Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive. The current legislation does not yet have a system in place to apply for the occasional provision of services to foreign natural and legal persons, so our craftsmen are in a worse position because foreign natural and legal persons do not have to meet the qualifications conditions or other conditions for the exercise of crafts activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law thus provides that foreign natural and legal persons must report each occasional exercise of a crafts activity to the competent authority which checks the conditions for the occasional exercise of a crafts activity. In the same way, foreign citizens who want to continue to engage in a trade activity in the Republic of Slovenia as trade operators will have to submit an application to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia for recognition of professional qualifications. The bill builds on the following principles: the principle of voluntary association, the proposal of the law abolishes the mandatory association of economic operators in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and thus the compulsory payment of membership. According to the new proposal of the law, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be open to the voluntary association of economic operators engaged in trade activities and want the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to act as a representative of trades. The principle of proportionality constitutes a basic guide for deregulation of individual craft activities, in which the appropriateness or intensity of the measure is determined in relation to the objective pursued by such a measure. The principle of equal opportunities. Commercial activity may be carried out by any legal or natural person who fulfils the conditions laid down by law. The principle of protection of public interest. The draft law only includes activities for which there is a need to regulate them or which require appropriate professional competence. Principle of equality, equal treatment of individual chambers. Legislation in the field of economic chambers has already abolished compulsory membership in these chambers. The principle of promoting entrepreneurship and the conditions for medium- and small-sized enterprises and decommissioning the economy, removing trades of similar activities and activities for which inadequate professional skills are required for management, will contribute to the trade register to simplifying the business environment, increasing labour mobility and partially decommissioning of the economy. The main solutions brought by the novels: any natural or legal person involved in the crafts activity may be included in the Chamber by means of an amendment. This amendment also removes the obligation to pay a mandatory membership contribution. The bill also allows for merger in other chambers on the basis of the provisions of the law governing the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia shall remain a representative of the trade and shall continue to exercise certain public powers. Entry into the trade register of similar activities and activities for which appropriate professional competence is not required, as well as the activities of domestic and art craftsmen shall be deleted. The trade register shall include entities engaged in craft activities that require appropriate professional competence. In addition, trade-related activities shall be identified for activities requiring specific professional competence and other activities for which there is no need for specific professional competence. An EU edition has been added. The purpose of the certificate is to establish, in accordance with the Directives on the recognition of professional qualifications, the holder of the certificate in the Member State where he wishes to provide the service and thereby demonstrate that he is legally established in a Member State with a view to carrying out the activities concerned and that he is not prohibited from carrying out individual activities at the time of the issue of the certificates. The proposal for a law also deals with the issue of the application of cross-border occasional craftsmanship. The transitional provisions govern the harmonisation of the Statute of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia within six months and within nine months of the entry into force of the law and the cut-off date after which the members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia may withdraw from the membership of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Because of all the above facts, we will support and confirm the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law at first reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State with the team, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the outset, however, I should like to express my disappointment at the fact that yesterday, not as a representative of the Social Democrats, but as President of the Committee on the Economy, I proposed that the first consideration of this law on amendments and amendments to the Trade Law should be moved to the next meeting. Not so much for substantive reasons, but only one reason led me to do so, which was that the Chamber of Commerce received a new leadership, which was given a new mandate in the previous week, and that this leadership was given the possibility of a proper, concrete agreement with the Minister of Economy and that this month they would find common points that would not last have helped craftsmen and craftsmen with this law even more. Of course, the coalition failed to think hard enough to confirm that. Before I say the position of the Social Democrats, let me say that I, as well as the Social Democrats, have always advocated that institutions such as the Chamber of Commerce remain primarily in helping craftsmen defend the positions of craftsmen to fight for craftsmen, so I think that this chamber should continue to be organised as a compulsory chamber. First, a few facts of the new bill. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Commercial Law provides for the association of economic operators in the OSCE on a voluntary basis or the abolition of the existing compulsory membership and the introduction of voluntary membership. Let me say that all the parties except the National Gazette, before the elections, we advocated mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce. Finally, I participated in some pre-election meetings of the Chamber of Commerce, and I have not heard a single party support voluntary compulsory membership — except the National Gazette. According to the proposal of the law, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is an independent, non-profit-making association of legal and natural persons engaged in a crafts activity and are united for the sake of common interests. The starting point for an association in the Chamber is a voluntary association, since the common interests are most defined by those entities that merge themselves. The draft law therefore also allows for the integration into other chambers established on the basis of the provisions of the law governing chambers of commerce. The applicant assesses that such a law can significantly contribute to the efficiency of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and to the more effective cooperation of economic operators, as well as to the partial unloading of the economy. My dears, if this organisation of the Chamber of Commerce is really going to help defuse the economy, then this economy in Slovenia is in really bad shape to save 10 euros or 50 euros of craftsmen and increase the competitiveness of the craftsman. At the same time, the proposal follows the objective of simplifying the business environment, greater opportunities for finding work, employment and, above all, greater competitiveness of Slovenian craftsmen. In view of the Government's view, the proposal for a law in force removes all craft activities for which there is not sufficient public interest to include their regulation through a crafts permit. Social Democrats cannot agree with this because we believe that the government is working too much to liberalise professions that can otherwise be cheaply serviced, but I must warn you, more importantly, that it can distort the quality of services. We ask the same question about the principle of proportionality, which, according to the Government, has basically led to the regulation of individual craft activities, in which the appropriateness or intensity of the measure is determined in relation to the objective pursued by such a measure. From this point of view, deregulation should, in the view of the Government, be understood as removing those obstacles or conditions for the pursuit of a profession that do not provide positive effects justified by public interest. In our client, we believe that deregulation of professions leads to the grading of trade activities. The regulation of reverse activities is proposed by the government and the government is not in line with the Social Democrats. We also assess in our client that the proposed previous period of compulsory voluntary membership is too short if the law remains in that form or that these articles will be adopted in such a way. We believe that the resignation from membership should be at least one. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European During that time, the trade chambers would actually be organised on the basis of the basis of a permanent voluntary membership for us. In the Social Democrats and I remember, personally, in what kind of trouble or not to say in bulk, there was an economic chamber when the same coalition ruled with a slightly different composition that abolished the mandatory membership. If there were no individuals from the Chamber of Commerce, here I have to point out Alenka Avberšek, probably in the economy, there would be very little to hear in economic problems in this National Assembly. Why make the same mistakes in craftsmen if it's not necessary? I wonder, since I know you can act selectively in a coalition, what are you going to do with the Agriculture Chamber? Although the law in the transitional provisions regulates the harmonisation of the status of the OZS within 6 months and of the regional chambers of commerce within 9 months of the entry into force of the law and the cut-off date after which the members so far may withdraw from the membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Regional Chambers of Commerce, however, the possibility of establishing a Chamber of Commerce on the basis of voluntary membership must be seriously assessed. All I read is the facts of the marriage. We believe that the Chamber of Commerce should remain a person of public law and under the supervision of the Court of Auditors. You know, some members, once the statute of the Chamber of Commerce has been amended, will have their own interests. In any event, it should not be thorough to reorganise the craftsmanship on the basis of profit-making. It should be based on the provision of the necessary services for the organisation of craft activities and the provision, which is most important to us and probably also to craftsmen, an equivalent representative partner in social agreements. We also believe that it is necessary to keep the trade register, in fact to register craftsmen according to the activities and thus to facilitate the organisation of the Chamber of Commerce. A respected government, a respected coalition! We believe and hope that we are all aware together that Slovenian craftsmen and craftsmen are too important for the Slovenian economy, so that we change the status form of the chamber, which, unlike other chambers, has grown with help, and that I will not be too demogosical, snooze craftsmen and craftsmen since 1969. There are no tycoon stories here. Here are generations of craftsmen who, in our opinion, deserve a quality advocate in all forms in the Republic of Slovenia, and this can also be provided by a mandatory membership of the Chamber of Commerce. From all the above-mentioned facts, we have great concerns about the law. We are also aware that a referendum has been held in the story itself, but we believe that the previous leadership has made some problems and will also have problems for craftsmen. We will not oppose it in the first part of the marriage, nor will we support it. However, we expect the government and the departmental minister to take seriously and responsibly an agreement that will be particularly favourable for the Slovenian craftsman and craftsman. How much we need them in these times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič and the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u8	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! History is becoming increasingly important as we learn from it and draw wisdom for the present and the future. In principle, we are stronger Slovenian craftsmen, more than 45 years ago, felt that it was necessary to connect and unite. From then until now this association has also changed several times, from the Union of Associations of sole craftsmen of Slovenia in 1969 through the Union of crafts associations of Slovenia, which has been operating within the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia since 1979, to today's Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which has been operating completely autonomously since 1990. As the status form of the chamber changed, so did the trade itself that followed the development of mankind. We have started to experience significant changes in relation to craftsmanship in Slovenia after independence when major social changes took place. And the time has come again, which requires new adjustments from us. The New Testament Law before us today is a response to these demands. The main purpose of this novelty is to abolish compulsory membership, which is of great importance for the entire industry due to the history and specificity of the crafts sector. Both the professional and the general public agree on the need for reorganisation. Discussions on the abolition of compulsory membership have been taking place for a long time. In the Civil Gazette, we are committed to abolishing compulsory membership in all chambers, as we are convinced that the voluntary model of chambers prevents the monopolistic representation of stakeholders in relation to the country. This was also discussed by the Chamber's membership in the consultation referendum in April this year, which, despite its extremely low participation, was pronounced against compulsory membership by 69%. The membership has clearly estimated that so far leadership has been insufficient in favour of craftsmen, which eventually led to a change in the management of the Chamber of Commerce in the previous week. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that, at an appropriate transitional period, it is possible to adapt the system for the transition to voluntary membership without prejudice to craftsmen and small economies. This is possible only if the management is aware that it is working for the benefit of its membership and is aware of the policy to listen to the warnings of craftsmen and small operators. The following legislative procedure therefore requires a thorough examination of the individual provisions of the novel, which according to craftsmen are not adequately regulated. In particular, I am thinking of the status of transformation of the Chamber of Commerce and Regional Chambers into private law and of the related transfer of existing assets obtained exclusively from the members' own contributions on the implementing side, the management of the trade register, the deregulation of activities or professions, the destruction of individual sectors. The Civil Code will continue to advocate such solutions, which on the one hand will liberalise the area of crafts and crafts of similar activities, allow for greater competition on the market but at the same time provide equivalent conditions for all operators on the market. The most important thing for Slovenian craftsmanship is that we gradually give it back its true role and meaning. We will have to give greater importance to business ethics and at all levels of governance, because only the implementation of the provisions of the Commercial Law for the Development of Slovenian Crafts will not be enough. Many have found employment, social and material security for themselves, and for the family, and finally for personal satisfaction. And we must not lose this, especially in these times of crisis, when every job is important. Domestic analyses and foreign experience confirm that the small economy has driven the development of the whole economy and the social environment in general. And we must bear this in mind when considering this law. In the Civil Gazette, we support the proposed amendment to the craft law. We are confident that Slovenian craftsmen need a strong and strong organization or more of them to pursue their goals and protect the interest of the craftsman. However, they will be based on voluntary membership, competitiveness, a stable business environment and user-friendlyness. The craftsmen have said the last word and we respect them. The organisation and representativeness of their Chambers should be in their hands from now on and no longer in the political hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u10	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Ministry, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The upcoming amendment to the law on changes and additions to the Commercial Law is the next step among the difficult changes expected for a financially burdensome small economy. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the novel introduces a series of important acquisitions. Main among them is the abolition of the mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which will thus become a voluntary choice of the current members. This continues the implementation of the principle of equality in the field of assembly in Slovenia. Following the entry into force of voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is the third chamber to be organised and financed on a voluntary basis in accordance with the amendment of the Commercial Law in the coming year, of course, if the law is adopted. Let us recall that this is also one of the commitments in the coalition treaty. In doing so, I must stress some other important gains introduced by the amended craft law. In doing so, I would stress the deregulation of craft activities, i.e. the abolition of registration in the trade register for crafts and activities for which professional skills are not necessarily required. According to our information, such unnecessary regulated activities are about 200. This will leave them between the regulated ones, maybe 60 or 70. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that it will help to simplify the business environment, improve employment opportunities and contribute to the greater competitiveness of Slovenian craftsmen. The third important acquisition of the craft law is the equalisation of conditions for the provision of services to foreign nationals who have not yet had to meet the qualifications conditions, as Slovenian citizens must. Thus, at present, foreigners are in a better position than domestic craftsmen, which, in our view, is unacceptable. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Republic we support the proposal for amendments to the crafts law, which requires foreigners to fulfil the same conditions as our domestic craftsmen to carry out regulated craft activities in Slovenia. With all the improvements mentioned above, the amendment of the trade law retains the status of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise as an operator of certain public powers, in particular in the field of the implementation of vocational education programmes. For the purpose of the implementation of educational programmes, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise will also continue to provide part of the funding from the State budget. The proposed amendment of the Commercial Law thus provides key objectives for the Slovenian People's Party, with voluntary membership and the deregulation of trade, relieves the economy and ensures the elimination of administrative barriers, promotes entrepreneurship and enforces equal opportunities for domestic and foreign craftsmen. For all of this we will support the amendment of the Commercial Law in the first reading in the Slovenian People's Party. Today there is only a general debate. We will also listen carefully to other arguments and later decide on possible corrections below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law. The craft law is fundamental to craftsmanship, as the legal regime of trade is extremely important for the development of crafts as such, and changes in social conditions, the nature of work and the nature of craftsmanship themselves must be made to the amendment of the basic law. The trade today is no longer just shoemaking, smithy and the like, but the nature of the works mentioned has changed, so it is also necessary to change only the organisation responsible for regulating this activity. The amendment to this Act concerns several segments: deregulation of individual crafts activities, fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of a trade activity, the status and organisation of the Chamber itself, its property or how it is divided into cross-border trade activities. Everything listed by the DeSUS Group is appropriate, so they will receive our support. In the final phase, this part of the law was also subject to repeated coordination with the interested public and the Chamber of Commerce alone and, as we know, a high degree of coordination has been achieved. However, the most media coverage is that part of the changes that relate only to membership in the Chamber of Commerce. It almost feels like it's just this kind of change. Following the current arrangements, membership in the Chamber is mandatory. The membership of individual craftsmen today ranges from €10 to €50 per month, depending on the number of employees. This amount is not even small at the annual level, even if we take into account the need to save today at all levels. This amount would also not represent a heavy burden on individual craftsmen if they all served the services of the chamber and if the requirements of craftsmen were met. It is true that some have very good experience with the study, but it is true that many have simply had to withdraw a monthly specified amount of membership, even though they have never benefited from congregation services. The government has prepared an amendment to the law towards voluntary membership, also based on the outcome of the consultation referendum held this year by the Chamber, in which, despite its extremely low participation, a large majority decided to become a voluntary member. In the DeSUS Group, we will respect the craftsmen's will. Of course, there is the possibility of falling membership in the Chamber, we do not deny it, but the functioning of the Chamber is how many memberships it will be able to retain or how many new members it will acquire in the future. It is perfectly logical that the effective functioning of the Chamber, the care for its membership and the development of crafts will result in more membership and, of course, its failure. Also with regard to the transitional period, a compromise has been reached and the law allows for easier transition of the Chamber to voluntary membership. Even though we have considered in the DeSUS Group that, given the fact that the content of the law has been known and the subject of coordination since the beginning of the summer and could be prepared for it, even a shorter transitional period would not be so drastic. The proposed solutions included in this Act are fully acceptable to Members and Members of the DeSUS Group and we will support the decision on the appropriateness of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat and the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-worker, I wish you all a very good day! In Novi Slovenije we have written into the economic programme that the Slovenian economy needs to regain its competitiveness. An important part of the Slovenian economy is craftsmen who, with their commitment and desire to succeed, have already contributed greatly to the economic development of Slovenia in the past. Even in these times, the craftsmanship is the one that, coming from the local environment, has made a great deal of efforts to keep in touch with global competition and to provide the local population with the necessary jobs. The State can help craftsmen by promoting their innovation and development through various mechanisms, as has unfortunately been shown in recent years, and the country must also address many unnecessary administrative procedures. Because some of the rules in this country are too complicated, making the business boom lame. As we walk through Slovenia, the New Slovenia Group regularly visits some regions of our country, the craftsmen often tell us that the country should provide them with an appropriate and competitive business environment, but they will do it themselves, as they know best. The proposed amendment to the craft law is also a step in this direction, as it simplifies certain procedures concerning registration in the trade register and allows craftsmen to join other chambers. One of the major changes introduced by the amendment of the law is the abolition of mandatory membership at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which was also one of the commitments we have entered into in the coalition contract. At that time, we were among the coalition partners in favour of voluntary membership in the Chambers, unless membership in the internal referendum is declared mandatory. In the case of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the outcome of the referendum in April 2012 showed that around 70% of the tradesmen who attended the referendum were too few, unfortunately in our opinion, that membership would no longer be compulsory. The Ministry has therefore included in the amendment of the Commercial Law a solution that abolishes compulsory membership. Nevertheless, in Novi Slovenija we defended the view that a reasonable, sufficiently long transitional period should be set to allow the chamber and craftsmen to prepare for this relatively large change. The proposal for a new law therefore sets a time limit for the transition from compulsory to voluntary membership now for 6 months from the entry into force of the law. In New Slovenia we will support the amendment of the Commercial Law, while at the same time we hope that the operation of the Chamber of Commerce will also be successful in the new system and that it will adapt its business mainly to the needs and wishes of craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Branko Ficko on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The basic purpose of amending and supplementing the Commercial Law is based on two principles: the principle of voluntary association and the principle of equal treatment of chambers. The Novela also has a basis in the decision of the members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who voted in the consultation referendum on the transition to voluntary membership. In addition, the Government has decided to amend some other provisions in the draft law which are not directly related to the abolition of compulsory membership. All of this is not fully in line with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and comments on the proposal of the amendment are also made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The fact is that the novel is incomplete and from the Chamber of Commerce creates a hybrid between the private and public chambers and forgets that the Chamber was created by individual members, whom we now call the Regional Chamber of Commerce, in order to establish a strong trade association that would represent the craftsmen. Why a hybrid between public and private? Because, on one side of the novel, it abolishes compulsory membership and is expected that the Chamber of Commerce will obtain most of its revenues on the market and obtain membership with its programmes and opinions to pay membership fees. On the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce, under the law, will retain the status of a person of public law and carry out public-interest tasks, for which it will acquire the budgetary resources of the State each year as a result of the loss of revenue under compulsory membership. The Chamber of Commerce will also maintain the status of a representative chamber, irrespective of the number of members, and retain the entire property of the Chamber created by the contributions of the members of the Chamber. Let us be honest, only who will have an interest in establishing a new Chamber of Commerce, which will be established under the second law, the Law on Economic Chambers, and will have the status of a person of private law. This Chamber will not be allowed to carry out public service tasks, it will not have the opportunity to request the division of the created property together, it will not receive the status of a representative Chamber of Commerce, regardless of the number of its membership and so on. In Positive Slovenia we agree that the trade law needs to be changed, but not in the way you propose. Too many questions open, too many inconsistencies, too many strangers. Above all, the proposal for a law is not in line with those it is intended for. These are the district trade halls. And there are 62 of them, colleagues and colleagues. I have a feeling that the consultative referendum on the abolition of mandatory membership for you alone has been an alibi to politically reach into a model that is not optimal, but much of its time has worked well. If we were to take a closer look at matter, we might conclude that we only need a Chamber of Commerce, on the one hand, to carry out public-interest tasks and, on the other hand, to represent the interests of members and non-members across the country and to carry out programmes and projects that will benefit from the development of crafts. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for a trade law should be withdrawn, a new round of negotiations between the country and the Chamber of Commerce based on an open and professional dialogue aimed at preparing a coordinated proposal for a trade law that will benefit all craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! I cannot support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Commercial Law. A new round of negotiations between the State and the Chamber of Commerce would be needed to benefit all craftsmen. If I say it harshly, this proposal for a craftsman's marriage is a craziness. Away from craftsmen, away from those who provide their own jobs. The Government of the Law has not fully aligned itself with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also has comments on the proposal for a novel. Those Members and Members of Parliament who attended the Slovenian economic summit with policy in Brdo pri Kranj last week, we have heard the importance of supporting small economies, craftsmen and entrepreneurs among the important emphasis of economists, as they would grow into important actors in the development of the economy. Comments on the proposal for a trade law are also made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The craftsmen's marriage, which is proposed, can go in two directions. On the one hand, voluntary membership will allow craftsmen to lose one true representative chamber of all craftsmen, all entrepreneurs. On the other hand, voluntary membership will lead to the withdrawal of members from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which could be a major problem in the regional trade-business chambers set up by craftsmen themselves, with their own resources, with their own money, building houses and acquiring other premises and investing their financial resources and having them. The property of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and its regional units was therefore created through the long-term, since its establishment, with the money of craftsmen. Voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia does not guarantee that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia will be the only chamber of craftsmen. It was also noted in the debate that expectations were that members would step out and set up new chambers. Only to make the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia the largest or even representative in the future. This status will be lost among craftsmen. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is another problem – this Chamber continues to exercise certain public powers that are charged and granted by the State to users for the services provided. The fact is that the country with the amendment of the Commercial Law will abolish compulsory membership, so it will be voluntary, allowing the establishment of new chambers, but which will not have the same conditions, as they cannot run for the public powers that are already conferred on the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. In some ways, we terminate mandatory membership with the desire to abolish the monopoly of one Chamber in the field of crafts. On the other hand, this Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, gives by law public authority to carry out public tasks and thus funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, without a call for tender. This is also the problem with these changes in the law. The fact is that any other chambers will be established under the second law, the Economic Chambers Act, and will not be in the same position as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Those who have ever had the opportunity to cooperate with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Slovenia over the years, we know that in local environments, too, in the area of the operation of the regional chambers of crafts and craftsmen of this Chamber have represented an important representative of all craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the local environment, together with the Chamber of Commerce as a representative organisation of economic operators. And today, with this under-thinking proposal for amendments and the completion of the law, we are going on a different path, a path that will bring the tradesmen together instead. We have questions: Who will actually represent all tradesmen and entrepreneurs in the future? What will happen to craft homes in individual areas built by craftsmen with their money? Will today the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, as owner, sell this out and make a big difference between craftsmen? What will the State grant to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia? By allowing this Chamber, as I have already pointed out, to lose a significant number of members. The other Chambers will obtain members and will be abandoned by the State. And that. We have also voted in Positive Slovenia to withdraw this bill from the debate at this plenary session, to discuss the Government with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, with the new leadership, give it a chance to prepare a law that would actually speak in support of the small economy, support for entrepreneurs, support for craftsmen, as they are important actors in new jobs as well as self-employment in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. Mr. Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! On the contrary, I am not in favour of withdrawing the proposal from the debate and hearing because I would like to see voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce as soon as possible. I've talked about this years ago. When I ran for office in 2004, I said that one of the things was that all mandatory memberships were deleted, including in the Chamber of Commerce. The mandate deleted the mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce. This is for one reason, because I think there is no reason that this membership is compulsory and is some kind of silence for those who receive a statutory duty, some membership that is not affected. Otherwise, if they decide to pay something for one reason, so is this, at least I think at the Chamber of Commerce, this has shown that the Chamber of Commerce is much more active now, than it no longer has mandatory membership, than is the Chamber of Commerce itself, which has received quite a sum of money each month. It collected it in a tax way and was very inexcusable in recovery also for some entrepreneurs who actually got into difficulties, bankruptcy, suspension of activities, and claims were inexorably recovered. There were very few cancellations, although the figures are not large, but 20, 30, 50 euros for one entrepreneur, who has virtually no employees or just a few, is a rather busy cost for one year. That is why I think that it is precisely because of this mandatory membership that the Chamber itself has not provided substantively enough for its members and represented them in the country, against the government, against Parliament in the adoption of laws and in all ways because it was not necessary to be active enough. I can only give you a few more examples. Some inn guy calls me, says, "Why can't I get a beer cheaper than I get in Mercator? Why can't the chamber try to provide us with one condition somewhere? Why are we paying VAT on juices and coffee 20%? In the shop you get coffee and juices with 8% of VAT." The inn is somehow forced to pay 20% of the tax if it brings juice to the table or coffee. It's a completely pointless and strange arrangement, but nobody talks about it, but it hurts those who face it every day. I could still list a whole series of these things because I actually don't think that trade was sufficiently well represented through the Chamber of Commerce and in some ways they weren't sufficiently protected by their interests. The whole kind of thing is. That is why I have always been and have already warned in this mandate where this law is, why we delay not to abolish this voluntary membership and in some way not to provide one more transparent work in this area. People will get together, connect where they need to, and agree on everything. However, I must say that with the content of those additional things that are added to this basic objective, with all these changes, with the envisaged organisation for the future of this comprehensive Chamber of Commerce, and with all these things, I deeply agree with the opposition Members. It seems to me that this is not the most necessary and many of these things are not very well placed, and I hope that they will be complemented appropriately at the time of consideration of this law. I don't think it's necessary to keep prescribing some organizational forms. This was not the case at the Chamber of Commerce, the membership was cancelled, and then something was organized somewhere in a way that they were looking for their members, and they wondered how this matter would come. I don't hurt them in these things. But I am a very keen advocate of this, because I see that this has been confirmed by this referendum, that people are very reluctant to do something under duress. And very much this will, at least for some, help to relieve the economy itself. The amounts aren't big, but a little over 10 million, I think there's 15 million euros a year. This is not a small amount of money for a whole range of small businesses with low incomes, and it is never possible to settle their costs. I personally wish that the law be enacted as soon as possible. Even when I was talking to the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, I said that time was enough to prepare, it was known that this would happen. I also call for this to happen in all other forms in order to abolish this mandatory membership. It's enough time for them to sort of prepare in the study. Since I've been defending this case, it's been at least 7, 8, 9 years. It was known that this would happen. In the discussions, I said it would be very useful to find different forms, different ways and to start looking for allies in a way similar to the market, but they would agree. I've been thinking, maybe these forms are also ineffective, but I'm not too much of a supporter of any union connections and associations. But we see how effective they are, including the connection, for example, after sections. Maybe at the common level, this connection, and we see it in the craftsmen themselves, some parts have been pretty much exposed and pushed against the government, I'd say, under some laws. Above all, we know these transport goods, from tolls and taxes and these things in this area, that they have successfully protected, for example, motorists in certain areas. Let us let them agree, as they will see that they will be most successful and have the greatest effect. Otherwise, I support this law myself. I want the unnecessary things in this law and the useless and pointless things to be deleted, so that more self-initiatives can be left to craftsmen in a new way and also to those who contribute money to agree. I hope that this will happen as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak. For her Mr. Jožef Horvat and Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I think the Chamber of Commerce and Business has itself dug a hole to see that mandatory membership has been lifted. We know the referendum that was carried out in an unorganized manner, and I believe that only the membership that strictly opposed the mandatory membership came to this referendum. The rest of them took things from me, and from my behavior, when I asked a few questions, it was pretty easy. However, there has been a result and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or by law we abolish mandatory membership. However, I believe that this law, which we have before us today, in some cases damages craftsmanship. The activity will not have this quality in particular, given that some activities do not require adequate education. However, if we look at just some of the areas where they work or operate unskilled personnel, what work is done in these craft workshops. Optional membership for trade chambers, in particular for district trade chambers, means that some will likely keep their members, join and continue to search for services at these regional trade chambers. But all those who do not join the voluntary membership will, in my opinion, have to pay for the services they seek. I think that all the district chambers as well as the municipal trade halls, because we have them, have prepared the price list, because the transitional period of 6 months is very short. Here, too, it might be possible to consider giving them the option of at least one year for transition and handling matters, because things are going to change a lot. I propose that in the future, because the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise has received a new leadership, this law should be thoroughly discussed and that the views of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, the Chambers of Commerce and Crafts as well as the craftsmen should also be taken into account in the following discussions and additions, as I think they will be actively involved in this debate and comment on this law. In the first reading, as our Member has already said, we will let the law go forward and then we will see what additional comments and debates will be made in the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Let me once again say that the New Slovenia Group will release the amendment of the Commercial Law forwards into the next parliamentary procedure. We estimate that this is good material for us to finally make a quality law that will benefit the Slovenian economy or Slovenian craftsmanship. Thank God the environment for Slovenian craft in these times, which we have our country, is significantly better than in the past when we had another country. I'm sorry to bring back memories of those years, like the '70s when it wasn't good if you were a craftsman. I also experienced this on my own as the son of a craftsman, a humble builder’s master, simply never had to knock on the door where the scholarships were distributed, solely because the father was a craftsman, regardless of income or income. But let us leave, the years have gone on and today we have the opportunity to say that Slovenian craftsmanship is an extremely important segment of the economy. We advocate small and micro-enterprises and so much innovation, so much knowledge, so many different skills as we find in Slovenian craftsmen, I think we rarely find them. And it is true, even in my office, the craftsmen came in 2004-2008 and asked me why they had to pay the membership fee. Yeah. We may say that 15 euros is nothing, but looking at the optics of a craftsman who turns each euro twice before spending it, 15 euros is quite a cost. Yes, that's right, Mr. President of the Committee on the Economy. That's right. These are the stories I listened to in my office, and these stories were quite something. The craftsmen have decided, once again, I regret that participation in their internal referendum has been poor, but those who have come have said for the most part that they want to have a voluntary membership. On this occasion, I would also like to place a particular emphasis on domestic and art crafts. Maybe so much more because I actually participated in the design of the DUO centre in Verge. You may say that I am doing advertising, but, colleagues and colleagues, if you are in a hurry in northeastern Slovenia, I would really recommend that you take a look at this centre of domestic and art crafts at the Marianum Institute in Verze. There are also international projects, for extremely high-quality handball colleges, where young people, of course also older ones, educate and produce wonderful products. These are Slovenian products, products of Slovenian domestic and art crafts. I think there are too few of them on the market, because sometimes we have problems when we want to buy someone a gift, and we are looking for a typical Slovenian gift and we see that the flood is mainly in the range of products written by Made and China. I think that a switch will also be needed here in the education and education stages, so that our consumers, future consumers, turn a little bit more towards our products. This centre was not created just like this, it was created under the professional guidance of eminent Slovenian ethnologists. Let me just mention Professor John Bogotay. Of course, a huge contribution was made by the local community, which could also be a sample for other such and similar solutions in Slovenia. I will touch again, and here I predict that the New Slovenia Group will be very active in designing the final solution, the final content of this law. We really must not ignore everything that has been created by the district trade chambers. These are 62. In fact, some of the contributions, exclusively from the contributions of craftsmen, including their work, have created extremely beautiful, rich functional homes of crafts or whatever they call them. We need to be very gentle here when we talk about property. I am not in favour of transferring the property of local or regional trade chambers to Ljubljana. We don't like this centralisation, and we'll expect some better solutions so that the real estate stays where it is. The times we live in and the times coming are different from those of the past. I also expect the new organisation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to help craftsmen more. I am not saying that so far there has not been such assistance, especially in the area of legal advice, especially in the area of perhaps drawing on European funds, we see that we are very weak. A small craftswoman or a plant would say a family business simply does not have the resources to prepare good projects and start on European funds. I think that through some educational workshops or until the actual production of a specific role, the craftsman can be assisted by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. Normally, I'm sure the craftsman will be willing to pay something for it. It is therefore a relatively large change in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a relatively large change in its structure. That is why we have also proposed in the coalition coordination phase in Novi Slovenija that the transitional period should be long enough for the Chamber of Commerce to prepare for this new organisation, although we know that the discussions in this direction have been ongoing since this spring and I think that these new organisational schemes have already been crystallized and I do not think that there will be such a problem that within six months they will move to a completely new organisation. I therefore predict the active participation of the New Slovenia Group in the final content of this amendment of the Commercial Law and, of course, we will also normally listen to the demands of Slovenian craftsmen and chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! I agree with those who claim that, given that we are serious about the development of the Slovenian economy, in this context we also need to get a good law in the field of craftsmanship or the operation of the Chamber of Commerce. However, I am a little skeptical or concerned because I see a lot of different interests in the very sphere of interest on this issue. And this information is leaking to every Member, but also to the public. That is why I also supported the proposal yesterday to buy some more time in this adoption of the law. However, we have already resolved this issue, under the terms of reference, so let me point out that I will support the law at first reading in spite of everything, so I will vote in favour of the law moving forward. Although I am not an expert in this area, I see the main dilemmas that appear here and let us all hope that we will find the best possible solution. Undoubtedly, the most pressing issue is the question of voluntary membership or voluntary participation in the Chamber of Commerce. Here we can now assess whether this referendum has been sufficiently sufficient or democratic to measure whether they have been missing important entities. However, it is likely that we will find it difficult to obtain an objective assessment. However, differences exist and therefore this will that has been expressed must be taken into account, and as far as this is concerned, there is probably no going back. Voluntary membership will therefore be a fact. As far as this is concerned, I think, as someone mentioned earlier, that the transitional period may have to be a little longer, is envisaged for 6 months, but I agree here with the solution to extend it for at least 1 year or longer than anticipated. I agree with Mr Horvato that the importance of the regional chambers has been and in any form will be important in the future. I therefore agree that we also take into account in the law, from ownership onward, all the other important factors and signals we receive from their side. Unfortunately, I have also read thoroughly the European practices that you have applied, some very concretely comparable to the Slovenian model, perhaps as a layman, I have read too little, but however, some examples will be difficult to find, so this path that we are now pursuing is so much harder, but I hope it will be successful to some extent. Finally, I would touch on one more question, although you haven't discussed much today, but I think there is more or less consensus on this. The law also deals with the important issue of deregulation of professions defined in this law or which will be newly defined in this law and it is noted that the list of these professions is much more extensive in us than in some European average. If I have correctly observed, we are talking about 250 such professions, while some European average, which is justified by the flexibility and flexibility of the economy, is about 100. I hope that this proposal, which goes in this direction, is merely to reduce this list to a reasonable extent, is thoughtful and will also help to increase the flexibility of craftsmen in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože the Great, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! Yesterday, in the framework of the vote, we decided on the initiative of the new management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia to withdraw the Proposal for Amendments and Supplement to the Trade Law from the agenda of the November meeting. The aim of the withdrawal proposal was to facilitate the preparation of the position and comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and to enable the participation of new leadership in its consideration in the National Assembly. The outcome of the decision was appropriate for this assembly. I am of the opinion that the law in question governs an area legally and legitimately represented by the new management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and therefore I do not understand why this same leadership was not willing to be actively involved in the adoption of the law. It is true that for various reasons both the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and earlier management opposed this proposal, but by electing a new leadership, the concepts and visions of the association have probably changed. Opinion on the Law of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, signed by the new management, was also received yesterday afternoon. This opinion also highlights the issue of transfer of ownership to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the length of the transitional period for transition from compulsory membership to voluntary membership and questions of compulsory membership in general. The coordination of this proposal with the Chamber of Commerce should therefore be difficult for me to define myself as a member of the bill, because I believe that only legislation created by the active participation of the profession and the public concerned can produce the greatest positive effects. Therefore, the relevance of the proposal cannot be determined at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Economy! I myself am a great advocate of voluntary membership, no matter what congregation or any organization or subject. I am convinced that the organization must confirm itself to attract its members. Forcing someone into some sort of thing seems to me in these times, it's written in 2012, a little out of date. I don't care if it's an economic, crafts room, a student organisation, an agri-agricultural chamber or something like that. In this area, my opinion was quite liberal. The market itself must regulate matters in order to make it as interesting as possible for those who wish to enter it. Today we are talking about the abolition of voluntary membership, not the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce, which would give someone a sense of individual debates. The Chamber of Commerce will still be active. I even hope she'll be more active. I think that giving her a voluntary membership will have to force her to be more responsive to all the proposals made by those members who have been active members so far, as well as to all the proposals made by those members who wish to leave because they believe that this Chamber of Commerce has not yet offered them what they themselves have paid for. Before, I liked Mr Starman's implementation very much when he actually listed concrete proposals on how the Chamber of Commerce should do its best for its members in individual segments or areas. He gave a fine example of hospitality, but it is likely that there are other areas of related and copyright, as well as all other areas where the Chamber of Commerce, with its pro-active work, could try to achieve the most favourable service for its members or the purchase of material or other matters. I understand that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is against. A certain part of the financial resources is also taken because we are all likely to expect a certain exit from the Chamber of Commerce to occur. But when I get to the field, I get this feedback from the craftsmen who feel like they're giving the craftsmen a certain wage, but they don't get paid back by having some benefits in services or in purchasing material. A number of these craftsmen have recently told me that they feel that this wage is devoted to the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia for their wages or for their emoluments, but each day more than eight hours of blood creates its daily bread for ourselves, for our own, or for someone else, which is very important in these times. As I have already said, I am confident that if the Chamber of Commerce actually acts proactively, it will retain most of the current membership, for anyone who has some encouragement from the Chamber of Commerce will certainly be convinced of this fact that the Chamber of Commerce wants to help him, so he will rejoin this Chamber of Commerce. More. To a number of new craftsmen, one of his first activities will be to join the Chamber of Commerce if he sees that the service offered to him by the Chamber of Commerce will be provided, not like now, when a number of craftsmen do not take advantage of the services offered by the Chamber of Commerce, but are looking for them depending on the specification of their area elsewhere or beyond what the Chamber of Commerce offers him. We need to know that the referendum has been voted on. I agree that the participation was low, but when I got to know some of the letters that were circulated by the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia itself, as well as by the regional chambers of commerce that called on the tradesmen to go to the elections, these letters were sometimes very willing to do so, they were afraid of what would bring about voluntary membership, so that I think these letters were not balanced, which are the positive reasons for voluntary membership and what are the negative reasons. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has probably also given itself some autonomy through this letter and its past activities, and this has also proved to be at a referendum where all those members who participated have given a clear signal that they also have enough parts of the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce, but they want the proactive operation of this Chamber. With regard to the entry into force or application of this law and the fact that we know when the referendum on voluntary or compulsory membership was carried out, I even expected or was a little disappointed that with 1. 1. 2013 and not 2014, so that this law will not be applied so that craftsmen, those who really do not see any meaning in this Chamber of Commerce, can step out with 1. 1. 2013, I know that it is still a good month until the new year, but I think that if the Chamber of Commerce is as flexible as it stands for individual documents, it might be within one month that the results of the referendum have been known for quite some time, easily prepared, and this process has continued to allow those members who are not in their interest to step out. I see for myself one good contribution of this bill to the issue of regulation or deregulation of professions. We Slovenians are such a specific nation, we want to regulate everything, we want to change everything, give everyone a name, some content. As I said before, I have quite a liberal mindset in this area. I think that all areas should be deregulated as much as possible, with as few administrative, bureaucratic matters as possible. This is also true in the regulation of professions. I think that the market itself can regulate quite well individual matters, of course in meeting some of the minimum conditions that a craftsman must have in this case for a particular area or for education, knowledge and everything else will make the market. Here is the country with its mechanisms and in this area also the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to exercise control and nothing more. Not that the Chamber of Commerce or the state, I'm going to say, is closing down certain professions. One appeal to the representatives of the Ministry, in view of these transitional and final provisions, where a new regulation and a regulation are being prepared. I really hope that, as often in our country has been in the past, when we have adopted a law that has been properly prepared, understandable, aimed at a wide range of those who are interested in this matter, and then, with various sub-laws, we have the entire ransom that the law is supposed to transfer, destroy or then went in the wrong direction. Here is an appeal that this new regulation and regulation do not destroy all the good purposes that this law brings. I am also giving positive thought to giving home and art trade a little more valid or the possibility of development. I think we're Slovenians, but it doesn't matter what part of Slovenia we come from, known for having a nice, rich creation at home, so that this part of the craftsmanship law that concerns this subject is very much to me. In view of the fact that today is the first debate, I believe that, in the second reading, we will accept an additional addition, both through the work force of the mother body and at the plenary session. I read with interest the letter from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. In particular, the Economic Chamber may have made a comment that is probably also worth considering by the Ministry of Economy in order to make this law even better. As regards yesterday's proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda, today is a general debate. The Chamber of Commerce will have plenty of time until this second hearing, which will take place on the working body, to draw up substantive and serious concerns, proposals, comments and then to be able to be summarised by the Group of Members and thus to try to improve this law. To conclude, I am giving this law my own great support – especially with regard to this voluntary membership, because I think it is high time that we gradually phase out from the beginning of 2014 all the mandatory memberships that individual chambers or societies bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u32	Dear Members and Members! If our main arguments for amending the law are the coalition treaty, but by changing the mandatory membership of deregulation or professional classification, there have been no changes for a long time, these are not good arguments. Of course, it also means compulsory membership that the government will have no interlocutors. That she would have more, that there would be no strong interlocutor with arguments that would protect the craftsmen. Protecting those we should protect. It is not possible to demand from an association such as a trade chamber, the protection of craftsmen if the craftsmen do not cooperate. And it is clear that the innkeepers could make a change if they participated in the guest section, actively participating in order to achieve a better level. Of course, at the same time, the government also raises VAT, and it does so to craftsmen. Today we are saying that we have written this in a coalition contract, that we will help craftsmen and that this will also improve their position. I agree that any cost is important and that 10 or 15 euros, such as membership, can be an extremely high cost for those who do not have it. But, ladies and gentlemen, I read in the newspapers that there are 100,000 citizens and citizens in Slovenia who do not have health insurance. And among them are craftsmen. This should be regulated within the Chamber of Commerce so that the Chamber of Commerce understands that someone cannot pay. Nor is 15 euros because it does not have them, because it is in bankruptcy, and that there is a great cost. On the other hand, the coalition raises VAT selectively for individual craftsmen, and, once again, let me stress, accelerates the work of craftsmen. I also think that the property we are talking about in this law today and in general, the property of craftsmen, not the craftsmen's chambers as such, is a tradesmen, and they must decide what they will do with this property. And when we talk about connection, about compulsory membership or optional membership, and when there is no one left to step into your defense as a craftsman or a citizen or a citizen, then you cry in vain. How will our builders connect, who will associate the construction workers, with the visas of the foreigners who control our construction scene today? How will subcontractors who are in an extremely difficult situation today and who are having a hard time taking action against the one who gets the job and then puts domestic subcontractors in a desperate position? Therefore, my question is, what do we want with this change in the craftsmanship law, which changes, what will we achieve? Do we have an analysis? Do we have a vision of what we're going to do about it? Will we improve the position of craftsmen? Is that why there will be more jobs? Will this make it easier for us to open jobs? I agree with the deregulation, but, excuse me, in some way there is also a need to ensure the professional competence and inspection of the inspection services so that the craftsmen are trained. We got some letters, and I'm not gonna tell them, so we don't have to, because we all got them. Will craftsmen, those who perform craftsmanship, forgive, not all craftsmen who perform craftsmanship, but, of course, similar works, or are they expertly qualified to do so? Let me just say that I have a positive experience with the Chamber of Commerce, that we have worked very well with them at the local level, and that we have talked very well about what we should do for local craftsmen. I think that compulsory membership is necessary for the Government or the state of competent interlocutor, or we will do as we do where we have many, but it is not possible to make a deal. Divide and conquer, that's the point. Then there must be stable legislation that will not change, remove administrative obstacles, allow fast employment, reduce taxes, let us not increase if we think we can employ this. If we can work anywhere, we can work with craftsmen who are the most flexible and able to work as easily as possible. And look, it's important if we have work to do. The craftsmen won't have a job if we don't start with some big investment. That's actually necessary. I think that, despite the referendum, I should remind myself that one part of this Parliament and another, for example, the government strongly opposes the fact that we said that the referendum would decide whether Slovenian state holding company is the right solution, so it thinks that the referendum is not necessary, since this referendum, which has been done so through craftsmen, is necessary. So they're double criteria, and I don't think this marriage is as good as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry! At the time of its establishment, the Chamber of Commerce was certainly a major asset. Today, too often, it is its own purpose and, above all, the cost for most of its members. Therefore, in my first reading, I will support the amendment of the law and I think that the new leadership of the Chamber has plenty of time and opportunity to give initiatives and suggestions to improve the text in this regular process. I will support it myself because I am convinced that this novel simplifies the business environment, gives more opportunities for employment and job search and allows for greater competitiveness of Slovenian craftsmen. You know that at the time of the electoral campaign, we have already advocated the abolition of compulsory membership in the National Gazette. In the coalition negotiations, we then agreed with the coalition partners to hold referendums in these chambers. And the craftsmen have spoken. We gave them our word and respect their will. Maybe participation wasn't the biggest, but, you know, a lot of craftsmen told me, we don't have time to deal with it because we have to work. The organization and representativeness of their chambers should be in their hands — let them say how they will represent themselves — not in our hands or in the hands of politics. The Chamber should work alone with its business and its services so that it will be attractive to Slovenian craftsmen and then voluntary membership will not be a problem because they will have enough members. A million euros is about the sum collected by the Chamber of Commerce at the expense of compulsory membership. I've been talking to a lot of craftsmen. One of them wrote to me in an e-mail: "When I started a company and became a member, they gave me three wrong information. What I got from them is their newspaper. I can read the data that's in it online. And I don't care if they hosted a guest from abroad in Maribor and put 100,000 euros in Pomour for humanitarian purposes. I don't get what I need for business in this paper." The second craftsman said to me this morning: "I give EUR400 at the annual level to the chamber, but all I had of them was one trip to Germany at a fair that I paid for half the price. I paid them a national professional qualification and we have to pay the craftsmen extra." Therefore, I do not have a problem with these provisions, which abolish compulsory membership. The purpose of the Commercial Law is also to reduce the entry conditions for the exercise of craftsmanship. Here, too, we continue to advocate deregulation of these activities in the National Gazette. In Slovenia, we have too many regulated professions, high above the average of the European Union, and we argue that this is precisely what this Turnover Act is about for a measure that will boost greater competitiveness. And we would like to point out that a similar measure to unlock the market and employment potential was one of the key measures also taken by the Prime Minister of Monti in Italy. "The previous leadership of the Chamber has caused some problems," said honourable Member Han. I really don't want to be a problem to Slovenian craftsmen themselves, because I am aware that they are an important segment of our society. And that's why I'm going to support the amendment of the Commercial Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to the government's representatives! Dear Members and Members! The mission of the Chamber of Commerce is to transfer the benefits to craftsmen and represent the interests of craftsmen. The Chamber of Commerce must be desirable by the State and craftsmen. For the country, the interests of the Chamber must be before the interests of individuals. The State must have an interest that stakeholders, such as craftsmen, are organised in the form of an association that is beneficial both to the State and to craftsmen. The country must recognize the importance and usefulness of the Chamber. He needs to know what the duties of the chamber are and what else the state should take to the chamber. These are tasks in the field of professional qualifications, environmental protection, safety, training, regulations, regulations, data collection, analysis, development of strategies, transfer of new knowledge, innovation through organised training, representation in foreign markets, management of registers and records. The transfer of powers and sovereignty to the Chamber is the most optimal, economical and efficient process and a contribution to saving. The country needs strong chambers because it needs a strong trade. The interest group – craftsmen count more than 120,000 employees. It is organised in 62 Chamber of Commerce and Industry and one Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This interest group therefore deserves the desired law, which will allow the Chamber to be a partner and transferor to benefit craftsmen and partners in the management of the country. The transfer of tasks from countries to the Chamber of Commerce also requires the transfer of funding obligations from country to chamber. In my opinion, the Chamber should be based on voluntary membership, but on a regulated process of keeping records of all craft activities. After all, the trade law must provide such a business entrepreneurship environment so that young people can take a more entrepreneurship course with greater interest. If the entrepreneurship path started in 2008 at 6.4% of the population, two years later, that is in 2010, 4.65% and last year only 3.65% of the population. The reason is the risk in an unpredictable environment and legislation that is not desirable and does not encourage and motivate entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Now it would be Mr Kavtičnik's turn, but I don't see him here. However, some changes have been announced. Mr Mirko Brulc will be next and then Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u38	Nicely greeted! The debate on the role of craft and small businesses in our country is absolutely necessary, because if we still die, we do not actually have an economy. That is why I think differently from some about compulsory membership or optional. If our people asked about the referendum whether the National Assembly was needed or not, of course we would have an answer that we are not needed. I would only mention one segment of the order of the Chamber of Commerce. In my previous term, I was on the Committee on the Economy, and I know how many times we talked to the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and negotiated solutions that were better for the tradesmen than ever. The government's spokesman was the Chamber of Commerce. The worse the Chamber of Commerce, the easier the government works on its own vision. I will mention the case of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, when Jankovic founded the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, we have three associations and the Government has three interlocutors and the problems are exactly the same. In many areas it is a matter of scattering them, reducing representation, in favor of those who rule. Impotence, poor readiness, do not have as much backrest as they might otherwise have, which means that whoever is in power can do whatever he wants with them. True, they say craftsmen, I don't have time to deal with these things, I have to work. That's true, but that's why someone else will be dealing with things that are absolutely necessary instead. The government, the National Assembly, our boards need interlocutors. And someone has to deal with it. I'm sorry that the Chamber of Commerce in the past, with these salaries, severance payments, has sailed into one disaster, as far as it stands, but they had their own organs, and they could have cleaned it up a long time ago. Look, integration and integration means power, it means representativeness, but it's important. When the president of the Chamber of Commerce comes to talk, and he says, "I have 3,000 tradesmen paying for membership fees," it's different than if I came and said, "I have, I don't know, 100,000 craftsmen behind me." And if someone can't pay those 10 or 15 euros, they are, and already there were mechanisms within the Chamber of Commerce to free them from membership. And that's the way to go. So the words of Horvath that he can't pay, why should he pay and so on. It's necessary. I think that these things need to be calmed down a little bit and now allow the new body of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to organize itself, to review things and then to come to an agreement, even here in the National Assembly. I must say that those who do not pay the membership fee will receive the credit or the benefits of those matters that we will agree on with those who pay the membership fee. Of course it will, of course it will. And it is not a problem of the Chamber of Commerce newspaper, but the problem is what this Chamber of Commerce at the Committee on Economic Affairs will agree with us here in the National Assembly, has also agreed with the government representatives that these craftsmen will actually work on better terms than they do today. This is a common interest and we must support them here. And it is true that whether he pays the membership fee or not, all craftsmen and craftsmen will benefit from these benefits. In my second reading with the amendments, if not, I would find it very difficult to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has not joined us, I do not see any mags. Vogrina, which would be next in line, then there's some cancellations and some replacements. Instead of Matevž Frangež, it will now be mag. Dean the Jew, then the mag. Matthew Tonin and then mag. Borut Ambrožich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government, nice greeting! The organisation of the Chamber of Commerce is not intended for itself, it is organised to ensure that outside craftsmen can represent their interests in a uniform way towards the country and to some other associations, but to work more successfully, organised to have more information and, inter alia, to develop their competences. The way they should be organized is right that it is under the responsibility of craftsmen and craftsmen, for then they will work the easiest. That is why I personally expected, like the parliamentary group, this was suggested yesterday that a new leadership, which is probably legitimate, I must admit to him that it is legitimate, since it has now been chosen to have the right to participate in the drafting of such a law, so that craftsmen and craftsmen will work more successfully. Unfortunately, this is not possible for them right now. The state imposes a new position on the craftsmen, not only if you look at the law, whether membership is compulsory or optional, which was the subject of the referendum, but in this law the importance of crafts in Slovenia changes significantly. In fact, trade is greatly reduced, I think that in this way, as is now the case with the law, great damage will be done to you too, the distinguished representative of the Government, and in particular Members and Members of the coalition, I appeal that you give the new leadership of the Chamber of Commerce an opportunity and also align such a law with it so that trades in Slovenia will benefit and, in this case, you also have my support, if you do not do so, but you do not have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. I don't see a ton here. Here you go, mag. Ambrožich, you're up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The 1994 crafts law is the foundation of today's craftsmanship system. The mandatory membership, which had already been based on these foundations, was found to be constitutionally permissible and is compulsory for operators engaged in craftsmanship, trades similar to those of domestic and artificial crafts. As it is said, it is not contrary to the right to freedom of association provided for in Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, nor is it contrary to the freedom of economic initiative provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution. Today, it has already been said that it would represent an ideal solution for a co-ordinated agreement between the applicant, namely the Government, the State and the Chamber of Commerce, so I propose to withdraw the proposal for a trade law from today's session. Further, I would like to say that trade in Slovenia has long been a historical tradition with the beginning of Czech organisations as a special group of handicrafts in cities and markets with which we meet, as is evident from the historical records of the 12th century. Author Tome Marija in 1998 even writes in one of the articles that turnover is inherently linked to human culture and civilization and represents a bearing component of the cultural and civilisational flourish of mankind on earth and can be described as one of the most extensive areas of human activity in the struggle for its existence. The history of an interest association of craftsmen and entrepreneurs in Slovenia shows the fact that the country has since always significantly affected its membership and the organisation of craftsmen, so I also believe that with the new leadership of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, a new element has emerged in the stage of the agreement on the adoption of the amendment of this law. My support will go in the direction that this new shareholder should also be given the opportunity to influence the emergence of legislation that relates mainly to him with its proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to predict the next three because there's a lot of change. Instead of Michael Prevac, it will now be Janez Rybič. Then Mr Weber would be, if he came, and then Mr Gaspar Music. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is 25. 4. 2012 organised a consultation referendum on the form of membership at the level of the entrepreneurship system, where 69.3% of voters voted in favour of voluntary membership. This result is among the leading reasons for amending the craft law in the provisions relating to compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Why should craftsmen be obliged to pay something if they are not satisfied or have no privileges, privileges, or a chamber of directors? The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia annually receives between €6m and €7m from membership. With this money, it could be very helpful to craftsmen, but obviously not. That's what the craftsmen said at this consultative referendum. Some reasons for the proposed amendments to the trade law, which were also agreed with the previous management of the Chamber. Why does the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia maintain the status of a legal person of public law? Due to the special arrangement of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, by maintaining the legal person of public law, there is no need to divide the property of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which should be provided for in the proposal of the law in case of a change of legal person to a private person. With the preservation of the legal person of public law, it is not necessary to determine the representativeness of the Chamber, since the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia remains a representative representative of the Chamber of Commerce under the law itself. By retaining a legal person of public law, it is possible to grant public authority by law without invitation to tender. There is a case-by-case case of maintaining a legal person of public law and voluntary membership. Such status shall be enjoyed by the Social Chamber of Slovenia, which shall be supported by a decision of the Constitutional Court. How will the exercise of the public powers vested in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia be dealt with? The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia will continue to exercise most of its public powers from now on. In the event that irregularities are detected in the work of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, it may only be withdrawn by amending the law. The draft law provides for additional public powers in relation to cross-border, permanent and occasional business activities, application and recognition of professional qualifications, and the issue of European certificates of lawful conduct of crafts activities in the Republic of Slovenia. What about vocational education, we wonder. It will continue to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Commercial Law, since all tasks related to education will not be financed from the remuneration of users for the services provided, they will be partly financed from the appropriations provided for 2013 and 2014. The budgetary resources shall be provided on the basis of a programme for the exercise of public authority in the field of vocational education. As the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia will be financed, we are afraid that there will be no mandatory membership. Of course, from voluntary membership, from specific earmarkings provided by members on an interest-based basis, from the fee for charging services in the exercise of public powers, including the issue of EU certificates of lawful conduct of activities in the Republic of Slovenia for the process of checking professional qualifications for the issue of a trade permit. Payments for the provision of services, e.g. master's examination and so on, from the resources of the State budget for vocational education and also from the tasks associated with the temporary entry into the trade register, in the case of cross-border occasional exercise of craft activities that do not pose a risk to public health and safety. For the latter, the current proposal provides that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia may fix a refund in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also wondering how the property of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia will or will be shared. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia remains a legal person of public law and therefore property should not be distributed to members under the law. Any division of property among members is null and void. The property will be used to realize the purpose and objectives of the establishment of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The assets shall also be used to carry out public tasks. It is also interesting to hear from craftsmen that for the first time they were at the chamber when they went to the consultative referendum. These statements also tell us that it is necessary to imagine. I could still list the reasons, but the bill is only in the first reading and I will also support it for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. After him, mag. Leila Hercegovac and then Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u46	Your Honor! I don't know why I feel like we're talking about a craftsman's marriage today, doing some kind of split-up, dismemberment of the craftsmen's chamber. And that's how this law is directed. When craftsmen and craftsmen, or when we declared ourselves in a referendum for a different form of membership, it is said that against compulsory membership, we have not decided to break down or break down the Chamber of Commerce and such a system, which is, in principle, very good. The fact that we now share that we will have a chamber that will be formally regular, such as this, without compulsory membership, and another chamber that will be voluntary, or even more chambers. We've heard that the novelty of the law brings a variety of novelty. If we want strong chambers or smaller chambers, this is not true or wrong. Why not? Because if we want more smaller ones, it will certainly not be a stable chamber. The last time we heard on the Committee on the Economy was when we talked about the issue of Slovenian construction, that the Slovenian economy was not stable or that the system of management and management was not stable, because it was obviously in the interest of someone to decompose, deform and then to master the Slovenian economy by someone third. I'm afraid that's getting more and more obvious. If you look at today’s newspapers, who comes and how foreigners come to work in Slovenia, because our particular sector economy, construction and related subcontractors, who are many craftsmen and craftsmen, are lost in importance. The current system of managing the Chamber of Commerce has certainly not been the best, but this does not mean that we now have to agree on or adopt such changes that will have a negative impact on the current system, which has worked well. I personally advocate a single chamber, whether it should be on a voluntary basis and work as the previous chamber has done, on the basis of compulsory membership, and thus finalize the matter. The problem is that in the parliamentary procedure we have a law that is opposed by the Chamber of Commerce itself, the Chamber of Commerce and many others. Therefore, a proposal that was not adopted yesterday to remove the law from the parliamentary procedure in order to return to the starting point so that those who are most competent for such legislation should speak first and then submit it to the parliamentary procedure. I don't know who has an interest in passing a law over the will of craftsmen and craftsmen, beyond the will of those who are literally the most concerned by this law. I don't know who has that kind of interest. And I certainly cannot support a law that is not harmonised, which is opposed in its entirety by the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I would therefore expect coalition parties to submit accordingly. And if the law goes on to read second, if it is adopted in the first reading to take into account as much as possible the proposals and initiatives of all stakeholders. I hope we can do that. I think we need this because we are interfering with the basic cell of the Slovenian development potential, which is a Slovenian craftsman or craftsman, and that we will not make any mistakes here, the mistakes made by those who were too greedy within this system, because obviously this system has lasted too long and something rotten has also occurred in this system. And what was rotten is now cleansed. I hope that we will not continue with this decay and that we will not punish those who need it because of this decay that we have recently removed within the craftsmen's system. They need a stable trade hall to protect and defend the rights of all craftsmen and craftsmen. This can only be achieved if we really have one stable organisation, but not more small ones, which, despite the smallness of Slovenia in this space and also in the European space, will be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u47	Mag. Leila Hercegovac has the floor for her, Mr. Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u48	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The position of all the Chambers should be regulated in a uniform manner, with some not retaining compulsory membership, while others are on voluntary membership. The important members of the European Union, Austria and Germany, maintained the system of compulsory assembly because they found it to be the best by weighing the various arguments. The German president of the Bavarian Chamber, Mr Traublinger, said that two years ago there was also a debate on voluntary membership, but then everyone, together with the government, found that compulsory membership was the best solution for the business entities joining it, while such a way of bringing business entities together was always in the interests of the state. Whether we will take the path of Austria and Germany or on the path of Hungary, which has been striving for years to reintroduce compulsory assembly, it notes that only a state-owned organisation can effectively influence the development of entrepreneurship and its exit from the crisis. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been training its tradesmen in business, fiscal and professional skills, transferring good practices from abroad to Slovenian trade and caring for the comprehensive development of the entrepreneurship profession from quality and culture standards. The cabinet receives signals on what needs to be regulated in the area of ensuring good business conditions through proposals for systemic solutions based on examples of good practice from abroad. If there is no more compulsory assembly, the State will have to listen to the smallest individual company outside its door. Will the Minister of Finance personally accept and listen to each individual from the florist shop or other trades in the future? That's gonna be a really big problem. Will these persons be able to provide themselves with legal aid to remove individual systemic legal barriers that prevent them from growing and becoming competitive? This is what the Chamber of Commerce and Industry does today. As it is said, the concept of voluntary membership is conceptually flawed. Since comparative countries have compulsory assembly membership, the government should already say that the idea of voluntary assembly is particularly flawed in these times. It is true that a referendum has been held at the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, but at the initiative of some politicians who were interested in weakening the housing power of trade, as it is easier for individuals to impose inappropriate legal solutions than for professionally strong and socially connected groups. Apparently, the goal of some lobbyists is to destroy the competitive and regenerative capacity of the Slovenian economy with their indiscretion. Certainly, a good option is a transitional period of at least three years until the crisis comes out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u49	Mr. Richard Braniselle. Then Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you, President. My focus and my debate would go in the direction of regulating professions. The Republic of Slovenia has three times more professions than the average of the European Union, which are administratively regulated than in the European Union. What does that mean? This means that this labour market means that those who do not meet the conditions for regulated professions have no access to the labour market in this area. This hinders economic growth, hinders movement and fluctuations. This is one such anomaly that needs to be corrected, and the law also brings such extensions. Why regulation? Of course, regulation makes sense in certain professions where national public interest is pursued, namely, the protection of human health, property, the environment and other public goods. It is crucial that we redefine which professions still require regulation in order to maintain it and where it is urgently needed to eliminate it. Now in this debate, there is a great opportunity for us to remove this anomaly and, in fact, release this regulation to this extent, to be kind and to be regulated where it is in the public interest, because otherwise it is only an administrative obstacle. Now's our chance to get rid of her.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u51	Mr. Branko Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Although I do not have prejudice with voluntary membership, the whole story of craftsmen began in 1969 in that other country, about which my colleague Horvat spoke of having problems and then the craftsmen were neglected. On the contrary, some generations of craftsmen who gave through and through that previous country and this one say that there was more order, discipline, especially timely payment and respect. In 1969, the Slovenian trade organization was formed under voluntary membership, at the end of the 1970s, 62 municipal associations were formed, and only in 1979 did compulsory membership – then under the Chamber of Commerce. But let's just leave it. What happened after the spring referendum on voluntary membership now looks like a struggle for a legacy between spheres of interest. And that's not good, and it's not in the interest of craftsmen. If we look at the dangers that may happen to us, the withdrawal of members, the dismissal of employees, is insufficient financial means to carry out tasks under public authority. The bargaining power of micro and small enterprises will not be so strong and the state will lose its interlocutor on the side of the small economy. Therefore, in my view, we should have a law comparable to neighbouring countries, such as Germany and Austria, because we operate in this same area, especially in terms of the provision of services to craftsmen from these neighbouring countries. To introduce European certificates, it is good and remains open, which is considered a trade activity. While the proposal refers to the establishment of two groups of craftsmanship related to the need for appropriate professional skills, the Government is expected to establish all trade activities by regulation. I see no reason why this Regulation should not be included with the list of activities already in the law review phase. Even about the property. This is now prescribed by law. I don't know if this is fair to craftsmen, especially those who have already started in 1969 and have come to this property in their territory, so it would be right for them to decide for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, for you, the question why we have not already agreed on all open points before this first hearing at the level of the Chamber of Commerce and also the Chamber of Commerce Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u53	Mr. Franc Jurša, then Mr. Matevž Frangež. Mr. Jursha is not here. Mr. Frangež, Mr. Roman Žveglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u54	I should like to say from the outset that I regret that yesterday the coalition did not endorse Matjaž Han's proposal as Chairman of the Committee on the Economy in order to take some additional time to further align some of the differences that exist between the new management of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the proposer, namely the Ministry of Economy. It seems to me extremely important that we be very careful when interfering with these social subsystems. What bothers me all the time, since the first government of Janez Janša, with the breakup of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, opened the story of the chambers, is that we have now established an almost impenetrable regime of various chambers in this area. And I'm saying that this regime should apply equally to everyone. I think that our first step together should be a new system law on chambers that would equally regulate the situation of all chambers. Why? The starting point of the government of Janez Janša was that, in fact, by opening the field and the possibility of voluntary membership, we would also allow for some kind of competition and plurality between the various forms of economic organisation. I also understand this law as the first step towards opening up and increasing the plurality of the field of crafts and entrepreneurship. Nevertheless, we must not forget that the Chamber is in fact an institution within which the democratic and plurality of interests must be ensured. That's why the Houses have direct elections. And I wonder who actually benefits from this entropy of this system of economic organisation. I also understand this law as the first step towards opening up and increasing the plurality of the field of crafts and entrepreneurship. Nevertheless, we must not forget that the Chamber is in fact one institution within which democracy and plurality of interests must be ensured. That's why the Houses have direct elections. And I wonder who actually benefits from this entropy of this system of organisation, because we have actually come, I hope to say, to the breakup of once monolithic but well-organised and strong representatives of certain interests in society. We can also be critical of them. This does not change the fact that, at least personally, I wish to refer to Austria when we like to say that there is no crisis in Austria when we like to say how well social dialogue works in Austria, and we often forget that Austria's social partnership is strong, effective and successful precisely because of the efficient, well organised and long-standing tradition of well-founded assembly. You know, given that the drafter of this law is also the President of the Slovenian People's Party, who has a traditionally strong political basis in the countryside, I really suggest that we have the same vats for everyone. And I expect, as the next step, from the Minister of the same party, that he will also propose a law on the agri-economic chamber, so that we will finally apply the same rules for all forms of assembly organisation. If we make it impossible for a monopoly somewhere, it's unacceptable to actually allow it elsewhere. I think this law opens up quite a danger. I respect the legitimate right of craftsmen to decide at the referendum as they have decided, but I fear that our collective culture is so shaken that at the end of this process we will actually reach a significantly weaker interlocutor of the country in the provision and representation of legitimate rights and interests of craft and entrepreneurship. Small entrepreneurship is extremely important for this country. The greatest potential for growth can be seen in these fields of the economy. It seems important to me that we are ready for this process. It also appears from the perspective of the discussions held so far that many consider the issue of the property of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to be one of the sensitive issues. We must make a clear and final request here. The assets that have been created by craftsmen in Maribor over decades of their own denial, for example, must be arranged through one transparent system, so that there is no transition here that will spoil this property and use it for the streets of another of the transition stories. That's what the National Assembly needs to be careful about. If you ask me, this law does not answer the dilemmas that arise in this matter. I therefore believe that, at a time when the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises is also in the middle of its human resources transition, when a new leadership has come to take place, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Chamber will actually sit down and agree on open issues in the process of further legislative procedure. This will be invaluable for the continuation of things. When I speak of this weak collective consciousness, I think it is extremely important, of course, that every small entrepreneur seeks to reduce his individual burden, but I am afraid that it is precisely because of the additional entropy within this system that we will actually contribute to this law that the organisation will deteriorate, that the collective awareness of entrepreneurship will decrease and that, as a result, this entrepreneurship and this turnover in the country will actually have a significantly stronger, better organised interlocutor than the craftsmen and entrepreneurs themselves. I therefore do not favor this law, so let us give it an additional opportunity to harmonise. However, experience with this government shows that harmonisation will not lead to the desired, better, more transparent, more efficient level of organisation of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u55	Mrs Patricia Šulin has the floor, followed by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, if she is not in the hall, Mr Jože Tanko, if he is not there, and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u56	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! With this amendment of the Commercial Law, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is not terminated. Indeed, this amendment of the Commercial Law changes certain matters, including the area of membership payments. And if the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has changed, this does not mean that membership has changed at the moment. And it was at the referendum that the low participation voted three quarters of the membership, that is, 70 percent of the membership, that the membership should be voluntary. This is also said in the 1969 membership, if these members are still craftsmen after 43 years. And if this membership, which was only the initiator at first also of the fact that membership is compulsory, is now not satisfied with the services and functioning of the current Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, otherwise the result of the participation in the referendum and the outcome of the referendum would be different. The new amendment of the Commercial Law follows the principle of equality in the part where we know that already, at certain chambers, for example, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, a mandatory membership has been abolished. If we look at some employment numbers and also these registration entities, then we know that last year there were 51 000 economic operators, i.e. crafts, of which 40 000 700 independent entrepreneurs and some more than 10,000 legal entities, i.e. companies and craft cooperatives. On average, small espas in crafts also employ more workers and generate more income from sales in these total incomes, according to the small economy entrepreneur. It is also clear from the data on the movement of crafts enterprises that this economic crisis, in which we are all caught, has affected the smallest of these small businesses that have operated on the market for two to five years and less those that are already traditional family enterprises. We are also all jointly responsible for mitigating this crisis and the measures to get out of it, especially in turn, because the proportion of these entities is very large in our Slovenian area, so that it will certainly be necessary to relax the financial spasm, which was also pointed out on Friday by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, namely in the area of construction, which has drawn attention to this segment of the non-crediting of this small economy, including the construction that continues to be, despite the collapse of some large companies, a very good part of our economy. The builders themselves drew attention to the rich appearance of the grey economy in us, also in other segments of the economy, and also to the fact that we look at it too easily and it has become a huge phenomenon for all of us, so that a combination of all these economic crises and negative phenomena is in itself one of our economies. Certainly we cannot go beyond the rigidity of the labour market, which we want to change and have already begun to establish through labour market reform. Certainly, when we deal with the craftsmen's law, we cannot pass the domestic and art trades, which is also of great importance for every nation, Slovenia, so that we also have 45 professions, which are part of this framework of domestic and art trades, which are also the bearers of traditional skills, and unfortunately this remains only the older masters who are just before retirement or who are already retired. This will also require a wide range of arrangements in this area, including a small economy. If I return to membership, it is necessary to say here that due to the law that is still in force, 10 euro is for members who are personally engaged in domestic and art trades, and then this membership is raised to up to 50 euros, which is set for a single entrepreneur and an economic company that has ten or more employees. 50 euros a month sounds like a small amount at the first moment, but that is €550 or €600 per year, I apologize, and then this amount in the ten years that come very quickly amounts to – that is, the cost of membership in the Chamber of Commerce – €6 000. 600 euros a year, maybe this craftsman would point somewhere else. Above all, it is evident that more than this cost, which involves a self-employed entrepreneur and an economic society, they are dissatisfied with the tasks of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which are paid by craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs and other companies with this membership. Thus, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has in fact received a clear signal from its membership that it was not too good a representative and advocate of the trade and will have to consider raising the quality of services and its effectiveness in order to maintain the membership so far, if it loses it, probably in one part yes, it will have to prove by raising the quality of the service to these craftsmen and others that it is of quality that members gain something for this membership and thus the membership will certainly increase again. It will also have to become more responsive to the needs of craftsmen and after the implementation of its services. Here is a number of these factors, which the membership has pointed out by voting 70% for voluntary membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u57	Mrs. Kotnik Popot is not in the hall. Mr Matjaž Han and then Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened with interest to all the discussions, both on the right and on the left, and some facts are correct and there is no denying them. However, I would like to draw your attention to an interesting situation. All those who advocate voluntary membership are excused for a referendum. Indeed, there was a referendum on the membership of the Chamber of Commerce. But we must not forget that this same membership of the Chamber of Commerce replaced the old leadership in a congregation where even more people were present than at the referendum. Why it was produced so quickly, so poorly informed membership for this referendum that some members did not know that the referendum was taking place. I don't want to speculate, and I'll never speculate, but the property in the Chamber of Commerce is a lot. And you have to split it. And it's good to be at the trough when there's a lot of assets. This is also reflected in those members who entered the trade in 1969 or who established the first voluntary trade hall. I'm not saying it is, but because this same membership has replaced the old leadership. [[...]] Mr Žerjav said that he and Mr Pavlinjek had agreed that they had given their hand and that the law was as it was, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Commerce. Membership, I don't think he wants it that way. I say that we really need to be very careful, to see what the government will do in these two months, how it will listen to the craftsmen, this new leadership. Of course, I must say, I have been a Member for just so long that I have no basis for having a positive feeling that the government will accept anything. This government has also decided to subordinate itself in some way by reducing the importance of the Chamber of Commerce by abolishing one stable funding and thereby subjugating or tying its language to those who might also say a word in some of the projects that the government accepts. Whoever's going to fight for this, Mr. Horvat was talking about some 15 euros earlier. Here I can describe why it is to be a wise member of the Chamber of Commerce. Only a craftsman who is each member of the Chamber of Commerce gets each month, in which he can read a variety of information in which – Patricia, you know well that on the basis of the data from the Chamber of Commerce, he can calculate what kind of pay the worker will have, what are the travel costs, because all these data are in Trade. You don't have to call accounting and charge it in some way. All these 15 euros, I must say, the craftsman got back 15 times if he wanted to. Not to mention that some of their counsellors at the Chamber of Commerce were able to advise small entrepreneurs on how to obtain certain grants and so on. Of course, everyone must have his own initiative. I think it could be in some way with these 15 Euros of demagogies. I had not been able to report before on Mr Horvat's replica, which said 15 euros was a lot of money. It's really big. One euro's a big one, too. But please, not with demagogy. An entrepreneur who, thank God, still lives in these times who works with 10 people, believe me, 50 euros is not a problem because he can use the Chamber of Commerce. The fact that they made serious mistakes in the Chamber of Commerce is a fact. The fact that the Secretary-General has received 200 000 euros in emoluments. Yesterday the Prime Minister said. It's a scandal. The fact that the next secretary-general won, I don't know, 19 thousand euros, a scandal. But let's not kill a cow for one steak! I am extremely sorry that this proposal was not adopted yesterday, which does not have any political connotation, but only that Mr Kovšca, who is now the new President, is given the opportunity to speak with Minister Žerjav. Despite the fact that Minister Žerjav agreed with my proposal. Because before I wrote that, I called him. And Mr. Virant. But no. And how can I now believe, will I say, to the Ministry of the Economy, that it will be ready to listen to the craftsmen and cooperate with them and change the articles in the law that the craftsmen will disagree with? I don't believe it. I hope what Matthew Frangež said that if the Government regulates the Chamber of Commerce in this way, it will also regulate the Chamber of Agriculture within a few months. I hope so. If not, this law will be imposed by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u59	And Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not be very long, and at first I am pleased to hear discussions from the entire hall, which were largely not significantly different. In some ways, you have all supported the abolition of compulsory membership, not the abolition of the halls, but the abolition of the compulsory fee or compulsory membership. On the other hand, what has now been said in the final debate by my distinguished colleague on the new leadership and on the proposal proposed by him. I would expect that on Friday, when we had the Committee on the Economy, this proposal might also be verified by the Committee on the Economy, and it would be more weighty and probably easier to implement. It is also aware that the law at this stage, as it is now, cannot be withdrawn from the procedure. It's so right to say it in public. I was particularly disturbed when we read this material on Monday. The discussion was on the date 16 when the Committee on the Economy was and could also be held under a different heading. Maybe that would be appropriate for the future. We do not write the law for the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but for craftsmen. Most of the craftsmen you also talk to on the ground in their district trade halls, especially older craftsmen, make it clear to us that this compulsory membership and these obligations are somehow irritated and they have been incentives to change this way. This mandatory membership did not bring any added value, as you have all found in the debates. You have found that the previous management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been some poor support to craftsmen, that it has not carried out its task, that it has somehow usurped power and there is no reason for the system to support it in the same way further. It is clear, however, that any change in some way is a painful transition for some who are some, I would say, to reserve the chairs in advance, so there has probably been a change in the direction of this chamber. But I find it difficult to agree that the new leadership is not aware of what the previous leadership was talking about and how the law was written. It must be said that the Chamber of Commerce has been very coordinated with both the parliamentary groups and the Ministry. It is not to be forgotten that the referendum was in the spring months and discussions were held until then. At some of the working meetings, not to say round tables, we also participated in the participation of Members, who are here today in the Chamber and we have probably heard that most of the remaining open dilemma is mandatory : optional membership. On all other matters, the Chamber duly coordinated with the Ministry and the Ministry also adapted the solutions to their requirements. It also allows for a smoother transition to new activities. I believe that in the second and third readings a number of good solutions will be added to the marriage. It is not likely, however, that we should start to wonder again whether compulsory or optional membership is the one that provides certain solutions. In the end, solutions are always provided by those who apply them, and these are the people who will enforce the law in life. And in this way there will be no added value, whether it will be compulsory or optional membership. Also in terms of membership, I would say, great demagogies, because from the Chamber of Commerce there was a clear transmission of information that more than 70% of the Chamber of Commerce was creating on the market. It is said that it still charges its craftsmen or a third party. It is said that this is a 30% drop in the best case scenario, and if we count that, for example, about 30% of these trades will not go back to the chamber or that 30% will leave them, this is a 20% drop in revenue, which is why the Chamber of Commerce will not in its essence collapse. Earlier, it was said who would fight for craftsmen if there was no existing condition or if there was no mandatory membership. In the end, however, colleague Han himself found that this chamber had not done its job too well so far. It is said that some changes are necessary, and I think that this first step, which we will take to support the continuation of this procedure, is a very good way to get a good one, and above all a better solution for craftsmen to have a representative representative representative in negotiations with the Government or some other authorities. On the other hand, in my opinion, as well as most agreed in the debates, compulsory or optional payment of membership does not have much impact. It's over. In any case, the Chambers will exist whether we change the law or not. As far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, as I said in the introduction, we support this law, and we are also prepared to examine the additions that will be on the table at the next stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u61	Replica, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u62	I'll be very brief because I have very little time. Dani, you know we've been doing a lot of work with this marriage lately. My sincere wish was that I wrote this in good faith as Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, because otherwise I would have written it as a member of the SD. This may have a short-term effect on craftsmen to save 15 euros, but long-term craftsmen with this law will certainly not. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u63	You've got your word. However, we have some time left, so I invite you or ask if anyone else wishes to discuss the remaining time under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Just one application. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. With regard to the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Commercial Law, I think it should also be pointed out that, regardless of the fact that there has been an express will regarding compulsory or optional membership, it is necessary to ask to what extent and, in fact, how the Chamber of Commerce can operate throughout the territory of the country. In particular, this raises a question in those areas where there is already a very large economic crisis due to the general problems in the economy and the financial crisis. When you try to justify the proposals for a solution to the economic crisis, it is extremely important that you also have an organised institution in that environment that represents and protects the interests of those who can work. It is also craftsmen, small businesses and micro-enterprises who employ, even if only one, but still employ. And if the content of the law, as we have today in the debate, comes into effect, we can say that it will certainly be the abolition of those regional chambers where the economy is the weakest. This will increase development differences in Slovenia also because of the law we have here today. I really think it would be more appropriate to listen to a number of warnings, not least to those members of the Chamber of Commerce who have somehow created this chamber, but today they may even be at rest and point out that the implementation of this law will really have drastic consequences in areas where economic activity is already small. If we lose another partner who can be a serious interlocutor either with the local community or with the ministry responsible for the economy or work, and not least with the government, then we will experience even more developmental differences than we do today. If, in almost all the mandates of the independent Slovenia in the National Assembly, we have pointed out that development differences need to be reduced, that differences between regions need to be resolved, then I think it is right that we are aware of this in every law that comes into the procedure of the National Assembly. I myself would much rather vote against this law to say by this very message that it is not a sufficiently thoughtful text of the law. I think it would be right if the law were rejected today, because it really takes a substantial amount of time, too, because all these radical changes brought by this law mean that the craftsmen within themselves will be more involved with themselves than possible with some development, and we can hoard them in the thought that they would come out of the economic crisis in Slovenia sooner than we will if that segment of the economy relating to turnover is kept in some kind of dispute, in some kind of interaction, or whether this property will be distributed in such a way or not. Above all, I think it is an extremely worrying fact that trying to somehow open the way that even small and micro enterprises will not only have the opportunity to join the Chamber of Commerce, but also in the Chamber of Commerce Here can actually even happen that we lose the Chamber of Commerce in the future, which certainly would not be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you. The Secretary of State has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I would like to thank you for all the debate that we have heard and heard here today and for all the views that have been given here. If you allow me, some questions have also been asked to the Ministry and some claims have also been made that do not go exactly in the context of the law that is before us today. Of course, in 1969, when a predecessor of the current Chamber of Commerce was established, it was established on a voluntary basis. In 1979, 10 years later, a law was passed that was still in force in this concept of compulsory membership today. In 1979 it was also made that the property of the then private chamber, i.e. a civil initiative, a civil association, was in some way nationalised and this property became part of the chamber, part of the assembly system with a view to maintaining or using this property for the development of crafts in Slovenia. And also the new law, this proposal that is before you today, keeps this position. During this whole period of law-making, there were huge dilemmas, huge debates about whether to maintain compulsory or optional membership. The Ministry has sat for quite some time at numerous meetings with the head of the chamber, of course at the time, and has aligned with them virtually all elements of the law, except the question of compulsory or optional membership in the Chamber. Somehow we did not understand why the direction of the chamber, just as we will then see what the position of the new branch office is, advocates the view that the abolition of compulsory membership is not necessary, is not beneficial if the membership has told them so. When the referendum was prepared, we, as the ministry, have repeatedly stressed that we will not get involved in this issue and that we will respect the outcome of this referendum or the will of membership. This need for the Ministry to meet with the new leadership as soon as possible was mentioned here. Of course we see this need, too, but to this day we have not received any initiatives in this direction. We have heard that you have been presented with a specific letter, a specific position of the new management of the Chamber, but we do not know it. Unfortunately, we are not understood as some interlocutor in this process. If this is the position of the new leadership, we will also fully inspect it. What I would like to point out here is that the new law prohibits the sharing of the property of the chamber. The property remains to the chamber, we allow the possibility of pooling district chambers, but this means that the property of this fate is also shared. The Chamber shall remain a person of public law. This is the status of the Social Chamber in the country and we also grant or retain such status for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Nor is it true that we are suspending the control of the Court of Auditors over the Chamber. It is explicitly stipulated in the law that the Court of Auditors continues to exercise control over the legality of the chamber’s work – in addition to the Ministry and the market inspectorate. What is important in the law and what I am glad that you have not highlighted is the re-regulation. Here we see the need for this revision of regulations to happen and to move from quantity to more qualitative regulation of those activities that may have an impact on health itself, property and the environment in our country. The current system of membership in the Chamber of Commerce forces certain entities, i.e. those who carry out the activity of qualification to be dual members, both members of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. We also eliminate and give these economic operators the opportunity to decide where the members will be. When we're talking about some splintering of the chamber, we have to say this explicitly that it's not true. What is changing in the present law is that membership in the Chamber is no longer compulsory, that is, membership is voluntary, or the Chamber remains as it is today, with all its status and property. We are confident that in the new organisation, the Chamber will continue to play this important role today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you here and ask you to support the law at first reading, and then we'll see if there's anything else we can do to change.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided tomorrow in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on the protection of animals. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. The representative of the Government is not between us or the Minister with Mrs Director-General of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is coming. We'll wait a few seconds for the minister to take his breath. Just in peace! I've been in this role several times, at the last minute as a minister, and I know it's good to calm down a little, and your colleagues won't mind you. So, Minister, if you are prepared, I give you my word for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u68	Have a nice hello again! President, hello! The president has already said introductory part that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act is in general debate. The proposal of this law has been prepared together with experts and also the non-governmental sector for more than a year. It was first publicised in August and September 2011. We have decided to repeat this public debate, which was reiterated in April and May 2012, as I have already said with the cooperation of professional and non-governmental organisations. The proposed amendments and additions to the law are based on the principles of responsible ownership and humane treatment of animals, taking into account the prevention of animal suffering, ensuring adequate information for citizens, optimising administrative actions, reducing administrative burdens, sanctioning infringements. The proposal for a law of scope, for the first time, amendments in the field of animal testing, which are coordinated in accordance with the requirements of European legislation as set out in Directive 2010/63, secondly, the implementation of Council Regulation 1099/2009 on the protection of animals at the time of execution, thirdly, the updating of the definitions, in particular as regards experiments, the guardian of animals, dangerous animals and dangerous dogs, fourthly, improves the coverage of data for the management of the central register of dogs, fifthly, the regulation of control in public places at the municipal level, sixthly, the establishment of funding bases for the tasks of municipalities, for the week, regulates improvements in the recording and events where the animals are involved. The amendment of the law interferes with a number of articles which are nominally related, but are not subject to a major amendment after the content, so the proposed law is submitted in the form of amendments and additions to the existing law. Animal protection in experiments is the first point. As I have already said, it is a matter of complying with the directive. The second point, the implementation of the Regulation of the Council for the Execution of Animals, is that an animal is allowed to be slaughtered only by being killed at the moment or by appropriate prior stunning. The stunning of animals should also be performed in the case of ritual slaughter. In Slovenia, even in the future, no ritual slaughter will be prohibited by stunning. But it is forbidden to slaughter animals alive. This is why, in our view, we are not restricting religious freedom, but merely protecting the welfare of animals. The slaughter without stunning in Slovenia is permitted only if it is a slaughter of poultry, rabbits and rabbits outside slaughterhouses for private domestic use. The third point is, as we have already said, an update of the definition in particular regarding experiments, animal guardians, dangerous animals and dangerous dogs. Among these definitions, principle 3R - the principle of replacing the use of experimental animals with methods that do not require the use of animals; the principle of the use of as few experimental animals as possible; and the principle of improvement, improvement of the conditions for the rearing and care of experimental animals; and the implementation of experiments. The change is also in the definition of a dangerous dog, so the dangerous dog is one who endangers the environment because of his inadmissibility or shows offensive behavior toward man, as well as one who has bitten a man or an animal. It is also more specifically defined as the keeper of an animal, who is the person responsible for the animal, whether or not its owner is concerned. The capture of data from the Central Dog Register is improving. This is mainly in the direction of preventing illegal traffic, which is on the rise. In regulating public places, it is also a matter of conferring certain rights on municipal authorities. In setting up funding bases for funding the tasks of municipalities, it is coordinated with municipalities, so that a limited contribution can also be awarded for the tasks to be performed by the municipality and that this is a cover from the register of those who have municipal waste. However, this is a minimum amount, according to our estimate of up to 1.5% of the minimum gross monthly salary, is EUR 11.45 per year per household. I am convinced that by proposing amendments to the law in addition to the implementation of European legislation [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the level of animal protection in several areas, in particular breeding, trial and slaughter. With this law, we also want to influence the promotion of ownership responsibility on which the principle of animal protection is based, and we propose that this law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u69	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General, Director-General and Madam Lawyer, a very nice welcome! We support and welcome the coming of this law to the National Assembly, and I must say immediately that we will also support it. However, we suggest that we pay attention to the additional 8 points that I will now count, and I also suggest that, by the second reading together, we may be looking for some upgrades to the solutions that are already well written in this draft law. First, the extension of definitions, namely to start including definition, not only breeds, breeds, but also the possession of animals, thus covering the wider circle. The second point that is important to us is the point that speaks of dangerous animals. The presence of a dangerous animal must be identified by an appropriately qualified person. I propose that we further extend the definition of what this person, whose competences, knowledge and experience must have, through a sub-legislative act. It is also important that animal custody is very clearly written that it is clearly understandable that it is not only a custody through a natural but also a legal person, which will solve some of the dilemmas that are currently in Slovenian shelters. In addition, we suggest that we pay attention to the definition of what this life is under inappropriate living conditions. Living in inappropriate living conditions is probably the main reason for suffering from animal suffering. Fifthly, it's very important to us that we have a good register, open articles talk about the register. What we are proposing is to allow the Ministry or the Government to operationally determine which animals must be entered in the register and how the register is maintained. In particular, it is important for us not only to keep a register of dogs, because it is important that we also keep a register of kittens, because kittens present us with a significantly bigger problem at the moment – the problems we have with them in shelters – than dogs. We also believe that it is necessary to establish a very good register of animals that potentially endanger us, citizens and citizens in Slovenia. Let me tell you one case. In foreign countries, it often happens that a person who wants adventure gets a small crocodile when a crocodile reaches a length of 3 meters, gets too hungry, and another dislikable owner, and a crocodile appears in Drava, Donava or Savi. The state needs to know where are the animals that potentially threaten us, citizens and citizens, and the country also has the right to control what is happening to these animals. We also welcome the clear definition that anyone who is legally convicted of a crime of animal torture cannot be the guardian of an animal until the sentence is lifted. However, since there are some serious and serious violations here, we propose that consideration be given to the possibility that similar status is also applicable to certain offences. It is important for us to write very clearly in certain areas of the ban on animals being used in biological trials for such or other tests. This is also the subject of a European directive. Here we propose to use the hardest of the toughest variants of the sermon, but it is also important for us that the ethical commission that decides on the authorisation or disqualification of the use of animals for purposes for which we do not think they are good, that it is not only prescribed how this commission is made up that it is important for us to determine, in the same way as already laid down in Swiss legislation, what are the criteria for assessing the ethicality of an individual experiment. When I talk about this point, let me also seize the opportunity of Mr Minister and other state officials who can decide on the current allocation of funds for the various research we currently finance in Slovenia, and the money is very little, and I call on us not to finance research where animal experiments are being carried out at this time. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you one of the problems facing societies acting in the public interest in the field of animal protection. These animal-protective companies often point out shortcomings or violations of legislation in the field. From here on out, the practice in the field is different. Some companies are allowed to follow the procedure until the conclusion, but some are not. We propose that we also find a way through this law that this will not depend on the good or bad will of the competent inspector, but will impose cooperation with a society acting in the public interest, including the law. Dear Members and Members! I propose that in this law we forget that we are politically different in one way or another, but together with the Department of State, the Department of State and Government together we will find solutions that will benefit animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you, President. We have before us a novel of the Animal Protection Act. It's a law that protects animals and not people. Animals. This law has been in force since 1 January 2005 and was an important acquisition at the time. We can change the law for a number of reasons, whether it is a reaction to an anomaly or a lack of law, which usually occurs in an affair, as was the case in the novelty of 2007, a reaction to dangerous dogs, or the implementation of EU directives or the pressure of lobbying. It's mostly a combination. And in this case it is. We understand that changes are needed to regulate animal experiments, breeding organisations, the supply and use of laboratory and other experimental animals. Attempts may only be carried out within projects and they must be limited, evaluated and, on the basis of an assessment, the veterinary administrative authority shall issue an experiment permit, which shall be governed by the law currently in force. But the novelty of this field extends to all possible attempts, and the hunters of bureaucracy spread. The costs of the increased work of the ethical commission for animal trials and the animal welfare commission will be borne by the users and will pass on to the consumer. The costs of increased work by the administrative authority and the expert council on animal protection will be borne by taxpayers. In any event, the public budget is financed by a large number of companies acting in the public interest in the field of animal protection. The registration of dogs and the management of the central registry of dogs is arranged, said to be exemplary, with the problem of cats remaining and is not hoped for and can't be tackled by anyone. Proponents are disturbed by fraud in breed animals, illegal commercial transport from east to west, overload of breeders and the like. This is supposed to be over now. Otherwise, this problem and the problem of shelters can be solved elegantly by adopting dogs and cats from shelters, reducing the cost of care and reducing the demand for foreign grazing animals. The explanation of government material indicates that the cooperation of the State and the local communities in the field of animal protection has lasted for a long time and produced quite a few fruits at that time. This exemplary cooperation looks something like this: the state adopts the law, and the municipalities are charged with financing animal shelters. Now, in the novel of the Law, we give municipalities the opportunity to finance animal shelters so that by decree and tax they can burden taxpayers, namely those who are liable to pay for the collection and disposal of municipal waste — even if they do not have a dog and not a cat. The Ministry of Justice and Public Administration points out that the possibility of introducing a household contribution is not in line with the applicable system of financing tasks under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities established by law. Only the establishment of an animal police or even an animal lawyer is lacking, and if there was no public financial crisis, this idea, which is by no means new, the government, interested groups and taxpayers would quickly grab, extend the repressive apparatus and increase the fines. Fortunately, the law did not prohibit the free sale of lemons for harmful rodents. By banning this, we would be forced to enter our homes into a professional exorcism service that would charge us well for this service. The killing of an uncontrollable dog is a novelty. It's a dog the owner can't handle anymore because he's become aggressive, aggressive, but he hasn't bitten anyone yet. Now the calvary begins. The owner must hire and finance an expert, possibly an expert of the cinematographer, to write him an expert opinion. This opinion refers to a veterinarian who writes a decision against which a complaint is possible. After the final decision, if luckily, the dog's veterinarian dies and the lucky owner gets three different bearings. I cannot imagine, however, that the expert’s opinion on aggressiveness and offensiveness is not so exact and does not convince the veterinarian, but on the other hand, the dog is aggressive enough to prevent the owner from getting rid of it and controlling it. In fact, the owner is sentenced to life with an insufferable and uncontrollable dog for the rest of his dog's life. I point only to a few problematic matters, but of course I do not mention all the things that are good in this law. The proposed amendment to the law brings some solutions. Some are good, some are smaller, and they have the opportunity to improve through parliamentary procedure. The Civil Code announces its support for the amendment of the law and considers it appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u73	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u74	Good day to you all! We have before us the amendment to the Animal Protection Act, which to the maximum extent aligns Slovenian legislation with the EU acquis on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, therefore establishes restrictive measures in laboratory animal trials. The Ethical Commission for Animal Trials, which makes decisions on animal trials, will have to re-evaluate all trials, not only for the most difficult ones, as is the case now, thereby increasing the financial and administrative burden on test applicants and, on the other hand, following the principle of as little animal exploitation as possible. In addition, the proposed law also improves the registration and labelling system for dogs. In order to ensure greater human safety, the provisions on the execution of dangerous dogs are also being amended. I probably don't need to mention Baricevic again in this place and the inappropriate conduct of the competent authorities in cases of dealing with dangerous dogs. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, a solution is envisaged that introduces the execution of an uncontrollable or obsessive dog, which has not yet caused bodily harm, is correct, as the actual attack of such a dog on a human being, God forbids the child, ends tragically. In the area of control over the performance of dog owners, the proposed law enhances the competence of municipal editors, as they may, in the event of an open offence, check whether the dog is marked with a microchip and also take appropriate action. In the field of local communities, the proposed law also provides for the possibility of establishing a dedicated contribution to the implementation of the tasks relating to the care of abandoned animals, which will be welcomed in particular in municipalities facing large numbers of abandoned animals, which also entails high costs. The amount of the fee should not exceed 1,5 % of the average minimum gross wage per year, i.e. around EUR 10. Until any additional burden on households in the current situation, we are detained in the Slovenian People's Party, but it is also important to be aware that the State is transferring a large number of tasks to the municipalities and does not prescribe funding sources for their implementation. Therefore, the introduction of such a tax is, in our view, acceptable. In addition to this, the proposed law also provides for a ban on ritual slaughter of animals, which is a somewhat stricter regulation than European legislation foresees. In Europe, there are only two countries with a total ban on ritual slaughter, Iceland and Sweden. Thus, the implementation of such a measure is quite radical for us. In our view, the complete prohibition without the possibility of granting a permit for such slaughter by the Veterinary Administration, as is now the case, is worth reconsidering, since in the event of a total prohibition of such slaughter there could be a violation of religious freedom, which would be constitutionally disputed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Animal Protection Act is a good basis for the continuation of the procedure, but it can certainly be improved in our view that it will be acceptable for as many people as possible. We therefore assess in our parliamentary group that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u75	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, he has the word mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. All together a nice greeting, especially to Minister Bogovic and Director Vurs! Today we have before us a proposal for a new Law on the Protection of Animals, which has been announced for some time and from which many animal rights advocates have been highly expected. Whether this proposal will meet their expectations will be shown in further consideration. In the DeSUS Group, we fear that many will be disappointed, as the proposal for a novel is mainly about the transposition of the European directive into Slovenian law. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we hope that the amendment of the law will allow for an increased level of animal protection. One of the provisions that we particularly welcome in the DeSUS Group is the ban on the sale of dogs and kittens. Only the sale of pups of their own kind is allowed. In recent times, trade in breeding dogs and cats in Europe has increased rapidly. Thus, official data on the commercial movements of dogs show that 13 thousand dogs were travelling from Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic in 2010 through the Republic of Slovenia to Italian, French and, above all, Spanish markets. Informal numbers, however, are much higher and the illegal transport of animals for sale has become a major problem in recent times. Unfortunately, the business with breed dogs is very profitable, since these animals have a price of between 100 and several thousand euros. The cost of this is paid by animals who often die during such transportation, but we know. There's been another phenomenon lately. There are more and more frauds when dogs and cats are sold as purebreds, and they are not. Problems have already begun with breeders who, in their more or less appropriate doghouses and cathouses, mass-produced young people, are suspended early and sent on a long journey, which has a very poor impact on the welfare of these animals, and females are generally overloaded because they want to get as many beds per year as possible because of their swallowing. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that such profit is unacceptable at the expense of animals, so, as has already been said, we support the provision on the prohibition of the sale of dogs and kittens. The new law also provides for the prohibition of slaughter without stunning for the purpose of ritual worship. In the DeSUS Group, we fully agree with this provision, and we believe that this proposal does not violate the right to religious freedom for religious communities that practice such slaughter, as the provision ultimately prohibits slaughter without stunning and does not worship as such. Animals, unfortunately, cannot defend their own rights and speak for themselves, so we must do so on their behalf and protect them from cruel practices. For this reason, we also support and do not accept the prohibition provision without stunning for religious purposes that animal rights are placed before human rights. The fact is that this provision is a content that will in any case bring criticism to the applicants. If this provision were to be withdrawn further, that part of the Slovenian public that feels like an advocate of animal rights, and if that provision remains, the religious communities that practice such rituals will be informed to the proposer and, consequently, to the National Assembly that they are in violation of their right to religious freedom. The new law also brings improvements to the system of registration and labelling of dogs and increases the protection of animals used at events and recordings. Unfortunately, too many dog owners still avoid labeling dogs in a prescribed way, if it's too much cost. With such an excuse, many also avoid sterilization and castration of dogs and cats, while at the time of the arrival of the unwanted growth, they are peacefully disposed of in the most inhumane ways. The amendment to the legislation also concerns laboratory experiments on animals. The amendment governs the procedures for granting an experiment to be obtained by the user organisation before starting the experiment. Attempts should then only be carried out within the projects. The projects must be assessed and, on the basis of an assessment, the administrative authority responsible for veterinary certification shall issue an experimental authorisation. It also introduces the possibility of prescribing municipal contributions in order to finance activities for the protection of abandoned and pet animals. At the same time, additional conditions are introduced for companies operating in the field of animal protection in the public interest in terms of greater cooperation between veterinary establishments and local communities. In Slovenia today there are 13 registered shelters with different legal status forms. The prices of the day are very different in shelters, from 6 to almost 19 euros. At the same time, there are no standards or standards for supply are left to the shelters themselves and differ from the shelter to the shelter. It is therefore essential to amend the Regulation on conditions for shelters for abandoned animals by means of a transparent supply day price system and to clearly standardise the supply protocol. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. In view of the coming Christmas-new time that brings an abundance of money from pyrotechnics, I would like to conclude the position of the DeSUS Group with an appeal that these beautiful holidays should pass without firecrackers and missiles and that those who still have so much money to spend on pyrotechnics prefer to spend this money for charity purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u77	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u78	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished president, Mr Minister, Madam Director, Mrs Collaborators, welcome! Slovenia is finally adopting European animal protection standards with the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and, at least so important, human safety, with particular reference to the regulation of registers of dangerous dogs and registration obligations at the registry centre. Let me only point out something in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group of Good Solutions, which are proposed. The protection of animals used in experiments provides guidance for as little threat to animal welfare as possible under the principle of three R. These are English abbreviations, meaning replacation, refinement, reduction. This is said to advocate a strategy whereby the methods in which animals are used should be replaced by those in which animals are not used. If this is not possible, methods should be adapted so that the animals do not suffer in the experiments. If this is not possible, the number of animals should be reduced to a minimum to ensure that the relevant results are achieved. The draft law also specifies, inter alia, the obligations of the owner with regard to the identification, registration and change of the ownership of the dog, as well as the obligations of the veterinary organisation or shelters with regard to the introduction of such data in the Central Registry of Dogs. According to the new report, only a full-year-old person will be allowed to sign into the Central Registry of Dogs as owner. This change will provide for a solution to the liability for possible damage caused by a dog, as it is new that the owner can be a full-time person. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is high time to establish a functioning system of ownership in this area, that known stories of people attacked in the near past are not proud of our country. In this regard, I should also mention the provision prohibiting any sexual activity between humans and animals in order to satisfy human sexual needs. Here I remember, this is not some novelty now, it has been known for several thousand years from the Old Testament, where one of the books of Moses has literally written that one who experiences with animals must be destroyed, so that it seems that such practices of mankind are accompanied for a very long time. We hope that the law will be a sufficient basis for preventing such animal torture, and in our view the bill is a good one and we will support it in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you. On behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The bill brings, as we have heard several times before - and I think we will be the only one - many solutions, but there are still some inconsistencies or some flaws that I hope we will fill in and we will propose an amendment. First, I'd like to talk about what's very good in marriage. The law particularly welcomes the ban on ritual worship without prior stunning. Slovenia is following Sweden with the intention of ban, which is excellent. We expect that the solution will remain as it is, despite the pressures of certain religious communities. Under point 2, there is an important novelty in the registration and labelling system of the dog, the so-called origin of the dog, which is due to come to life in January 2015. This is supposed to prevent many trafficking and fraud in dog trafficking. There are many sad stories in this chapter. It's particularly worrying that sometimes you even know who's doing it, who's doing it, who's doing it, how, where he's shopping with dog cubs, and nothing happens. So young people are sick, tortured, torn away from their mothers too soon, whose pregnancy is essentially followed by becoming like some kind of closet to produce new products, so to speak. In addition to dogs, I would mention that it makes sense for me to include some other animal species in the register. The third amendment, which I would like to commend, is that the introduction of a contribution to animal welfare in order to raise funds for the care of abandoned animals will be made possible for municipalities. It is intended to be paid by all households that are obliged to pay for the collection and disposal of municipal waste services. Here I believe that there will be concerns, different solutions, but I think it is high time that as a society and as individuals we accept responsibility and care for the animals we live with – that is, everyone. In practice, it is often different. Even now, the congregations are responsible for sterilization and castration of animals without owners. In real life there are costs of treatment and intervention in these animals on shoulder-aware individuals – where there are no shelters, etc., because there are also such parts in Slovenia where there are no shelters – or in individual societies, on their ingenuity and so on. What is most difficult to monitor is actually to monitor the responsibility of how responsibility to their animals is seen by many individuals. There are countries that do not have shelters, not because they do not want to or want to have them, but simply because they do not need them. Why don't they need them? Because owners of their animals are responsible and society is responsible for animals, and I think it is time for us to do something similar and therefore I think this law is good. We therefore support all steps in the direction of greater responsibility of owners and society, or of some general concern for animals. And now for another matter that we miss in this marriage. The bill does not contain a provision prohibiting circus performances involving live animals. The complete ban on the use of animals in the circus is applicable in Austria, Greece, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries. For example, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Portugal, Belgium and so on have a ban on certain animal species in the circus. Poland banned the performances of animals in the circus — animals taken from nature. With us, however, the permit for a circus in Slovenia is issued by the competent administrative unit on the basis of the agreement of Vurs. In doing so, I would like to mention that the President of Positive Slovenia, Zoran Janković, who said that – I am now talking about a particular case which I think other municipalities could follow – that the municipality opposes the type of animal capture carried out by circuses, which the public has been informed about, but as long as the legislation allows all events in the city, although on private land, without the consent of the municipality, it has no effect on this municipality. More than allowing for a circus on land owned by the congregation, unfortunately, we cannot do so. I would very much like this to change, so in Positive Slovenia we call for amendments to regulate this area, while at the same time the Government, as well as all others, as well as you and those who accompany us on television, are invited to join the campaign for banning circuses in which animals perform. As far as I know, one of these petitions has been circulating for some time now and has tremendous support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The animals that we coexist with are sensitive beings with a set of specific needs that we must respect and respect if we are to enable them to live a decent life without suffering. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly working to raise awareness, information and also education in order to prevent irresponsible animal relations in the long term. This law lays down the responsibility of people to protect animals, that is to protect their lives, health and welfare. It shall determine what is considered to be animal torture and which animal treatment or intervention is prohibited. It lays down the conditions to be provided for the protection of animals in the breeding, transport and testing of animals. The amendment of the law is mainly necessary in order to comply with Directive 2010/63 of the European Parliament. Changes in animal testing arrangements are necessary in the field of procedures for the authorisation of organisations involved in the breeding, supply and use of laboratory and other animal experiments. They will regulate the procedures for granting an experiment to be obtained by the user organisation before initiating the experiment. In Slovenia, ethical assessments of experiments are already carried out by an ethical commission for animal trials, it is appropriate that the tasks imposed by the new directive be taken over by an already existing advisory body whose tasks are complemented accordingly. The new tasks directive gives rise to a certain degree of increase in administrative burdens, since it then provides for assessments for all trials and not only more difficult than has been regulated so far. In recent times, trade with breeding dogs and cats in Europe has increased rapidly. Very often there are frauds in terms of selling dogs that are not pure breeds and are not accompanied by documentation to prove otherwise. In the field of registration of dogs, action must be taken in a way that prevents or at least restricts the sale of puppies, as this is the main reason for the suffering of these animals. In Slovenia, there is a strong civil society in the field of animal protection. We absolutely support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Slovenia currently has ten shelters for abandoned animals, which are either owned by municipalities or privately owned and operated by municipalities. The problems encountered in this cooperation concern in particular the financing of this service. Because the municipalities do not have a clearly prescribed way of providing funds for this activity, which could or could be amended by introducing the possibility of prescribing municipal duties for this purpose, and this is likely to be discussed. What do we want to do with the law? First, compliance with European legislation on the protection of animals in trials; better registration of dogs and prevention of illegal trade in dogs and cats; protection of animals used in events and recordings; and, of course, better definition of activities of societies operating in the field of animal protection in the public interest. The financing of the public service, the care of abandoned animals and other activities to ensure the welfare of pets at the municipal level should be made possible. These are the main points of this law. In view of all the above, this law will also be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. He's got the word "magic" first. Katarina Hotchevar, behind her, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and my colleagues! The Indian leader Gandhi said that most of the people and their moral progress could be judged on the basis of his attitude toward animals. At a time when the protection of fundamental human rights is often not guaranteed, however, many feel that the protection of animals is unnecessary, but that animals are vulnerable. They cannot fight for their own rights, and therefore they need an agent, regardless of political affiliation. I am therefore pleased that today we have a law on the agenda in this area which, in my opinion, raises the level of animal protection. It must be acknowledged, however, that we have improved and standardised this area in Slovenia mainly after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, and that this amendment to the law is followed by a change in European legislation, adapting to the European directives on the protection of animals in attempts and the protection of animals in the process of killing. As far as animal protection is concerned, the principle of the three Rs has already been highlighted. Here, I strongly agree that in the trials, it is necessary to examine first whether we can do these experiments with other methods and not with animals, if it is not possible to use the smallest possible number of animals, but also if this is not taken into account, and to improve the conditions or conditions of care in these experiments. As regards the protection of animals at the time of execution, it must be said that the profession claims that the slaughter of animals without stunning causes the suffering that can be prevented without suffering in any way from the quality of the meat itself. Even now, under the current regime, a ritual slaughter without stunning could be allowed only exceptionally, and according to the Veterinary Administration, in those 12 years this body received only one role for such ritual slaughter, even in this year's October, when amendments to the legislation have already been tabled. That is why we also support the ban on ritual slaughter without stunning in the Civil Gazette. The proposed amendments are also intended to improve the situation in the field of registration and labelling of dogs, as well as to prevent the sale of dogs and kittens, which is often an activity that has a very negative impact on the welfare of these animals. The law also provides, in essence, the possibility or possibility of involving societies acting in the public interest to alert and raise awareness about the issue of animal owners and also to place the provisions in this law, of course, we welcome. Today, several proposals for improvement have been made in the presentations of the parliamentary groups, notably the opposition groups. In our parliamentary group, we will examine these proposals carefully, and if they do not constitute new bureaucratic obstacles and improve the welfare of animals, in fact, we are always prepared in the National Gazette for this kind of cooperation. Finally, I would say that even such good legislation cannot solve the animal welfare problem, it cannot prevent the animal from being tortured if all owners are not aware of their responsibility. So in the end, it's just my appeal that we don't buy animals if we don't have time for them or if we're not able to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u85	Mr Jurša is not in the Chamber, so I now give the floor to Mr Dragan Bosić and then the Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I'd argue in the place where my client colleague ended up, or I'd start with a circus. From our point of view, from my personal point of view, the circus is also very controversial for several reasons. He performed a very important educational function at a time, perhaps not so much back, some of them still remember, where we had the first opportunity to see some wild animals, such as lions, elephants, for the first time in our lives. But now this need is gone, now children with the help of Discovery, Animal Planet, and I don't know what else these animals can observe much more credible than they can be there. And another thing, the world's leading circus Circe du Soleil of Canada, Montreal, does not contain any points where animals would perform. Their points are very attractive, the world's reputation has been achieved with a new path to support it, and it might be good for Slovenia to lead or participate in this evolution. I think that would be very good. So much for the circus. Laboratory animals are another topic where this triple R poses a major challenge for those who will rule This could be as an appeal to give, especially the last one where we are talking about the number of animals. [[...]] Here, one particular concern should be highlighted, because we know that these experiments, like all experiments, are related to the number due to the effect of the experiment itself, are normally verified with a hi square and I don't know what tests. What do I mean by that? What I'm saying is, in fact, it would be more than just to polymaze the number, to even argue about the justification, about the need for an experiment, for example, to dry up the mucous membranes of the respiratory organs, burns due to various means that reduce these effects. The physiology of all these experiments must be kept in mind, either by shutting down the engine, the sensory system remains complete — or by mishearing — or by causing some fault that is then monitored. And finally, I wouldn't want animal care to replace caring for a fellow human being. I see it as some kind of civilisational standard, like some kind of added value. Last but not least remember these catastrophic floods a while ago, remember the two photographs that surrounded the world, the gentlemen who were saving their Rottweiler and the gentleman who was saving his cat. I had, I can say, even the honor of meeting this gentleman who was saving the Rottweiler. I also wanted to worship a Rottweiler, but he said I'd rather not walk too close. His explanation was in the sense that he saved him twice; the first time he was rejected and picked him up, the second time he was in the floods. That seems to him to be a perfectly normal standard. Some of the trees that he was saving his dog, it floated away, but he's gonna fix it. I think it's a good example for all of us. It's a very simple act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u87	Mag. Majda Potrat, behind her, Mr. Richard Branisel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! A number of debaters have so far expressed their satisfaction at agreeing with this law, but the content is such that we have a very different relationship between humans and animals. Some of us love them, others think that the care of many animals is excessive, others fear them, and they might even list them. I am particularly interested in this law or in this aspect of how the interaction between these different relationships with animals is regulated. Because if a Mariborian stops me on the road and says, "So do something so that we can live normally in our block because he lives with us in the block also someone who has so many and so many animals and becomes an unsustainable roommate," it is a problem of one kind. The problem of another species is if an important pre-election topic in a town was an animal shelter and then it happened that the shelter was set up, but at the same time, there were a number of problems or problems in the management of the shelter, either by covering the costs of such shelter or, say, different doctrines when to kill an animal and when not. And this is also one of the suggestions — to consider whether it would not be good to extend the time when, if an abandoned animal is not taken over, an animal is allowed to shorten its life. I think I've said it carefully enough. This is also a topic on which colleague Bosić pointed out that even in the most existential moments, human and animal coexistence can be very important, and man shows responsibility for animals. Not only was I taken by a cat but I was also taken by a dog named Rambo, but I was also taken by a photograph of firefighters or rescue workers who rescued the deer during the floods. Thus, it is not some senseless speech and it is not possible just to say where the limit of permissibility or acceptability ends. So much for this, and this is my contribution to continuing the topic of raising VAT on animal food. Now, what's involved with this marriage is, of course, not all of it again, but just some. The fundamental definition is that this is an arrangement or a harmonisation with the Directive. Many warn, in particular from civil society associations, that a cat register should be included in addition to the dog register. Now, who will say that these are bureaucratic obstacles, cats also have a slightly more democratic way of life than dogs, but anyway, the fact is that cat material was taken into account. If we are to introduce a better system for registration of dogs and preventing illegal trafficking in dogs and cats, we cannot do that if we do not know who the breeders of cats are. Some register will still have to be kept. And this is written in the goals and then in the main solutions. It's the first such thing. Second. When comparing Article 1 of the current law and amended, I have observed that the content of the articles is separated by, in particular, narrowing down or shortening the text of Article 1 proposed, leaving certain things which are recorded in the applicable law, and then linking them with Article 5, now in the proposed amended law with Article 2, which, however, leaves some of the terms used in the previous law. I associate this with giving up talking about breeding animals and so on, about etiological norms and so on. Well, some expressions may be such that precise explanations are really needed, but when I looked at the definition of pet animals, this remains the same. I understand the material preparers that they are in great distemper, because when we think about which animals are now becoming pets, the collection of these animals is increasing. For the last time, as an example of animals looking for a new owner, I saw a couple of ferrets — or kunas — that they have. Until recently, it has been unimaginable that such animals would have been at home, including rabbits, for example, becoming a fashionable house animal and anything else to say. They even breed special breeds, because I think I'll say it right, breeds or subtypes of pigs that are small so they can have them at home; and a lot more could be said here. I understand that the collection of these animals is not complete. What is worth considering, however, is: if I look at the relationship between man and animal, it is necessary to think about the responsibility of man to an animal, to any animal, and then it makes sense for me to consider whether the term owner is an appropriate term or perhaps not, in all cases, better to have just the term custodian. While this matter is written in another article to some extent, since it is written here under point 22, you do not have a special, if I have looked closely, the owner of the mentioned, and the custodian is written to cover everything, whether it is a natural person or owner, the custodian is also a congregation when it must enter into the care of a found or lost animal. I therefore think that, from this point of view, it would be possible to think about whether the term owner is the most appropriate or not. I would, however, like to have the same good and responsible attitude that we are slowly trying to apply to domestic animals, even to wild animals, because stories about how we have driven the rice away, how we treat the wolf population horribly, and how we change these things, so that we can also develop a more patient relationship and responsible relationship that would allow wild animals to coexist with humans. As regards this law and the attitude of the parliamentary group, the introduction said. I would point out, however, that we expect some comments to be taken into account in the discussion below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u89	Mr. Richard Branisel, then Alenka Root Gomboc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you, President. My discussion would go this way, or it would not be possible to vaccinate dogs of some kind of animal torture — at least if we are saying that this is too often. Now we have the rules and regulations that this is every year. We know that since 1952 in the Republic of Slovenia we no longer have rabies in humans. The vaccine manufacturers shall ensure that the vaccine works for at least two or three years. Therefore, the question arises why we still insist that dogs should be vaccinated every year. That's just some stress for both the dog and the wallet, if I say so. Is it not possible to consider this now? The second thing in this story is also the price of this veterinary service. As someone wrote: Is the dog our friend or is it a dairy cow? In this case, as regards the price of this service, the price of this service is 31.42 – I think it was last – when I look a little over the border, say, in Budapest, and in the private veterinary clinic it costs 15 euros, according to my data, with the price of 2.27 euros. Then we can imagine what this price structure is and what it represents, work, margins and so on. I think it would be worth considering — not interfering precisely with this law, but it is now an opportunity to draw attention to that too. The second thing I would point out is — and I think we should also explain — that in these stories all too often we have too little of a farm of intelligence and all too often we react strictly and too formally. I'm just going to quote an article in the paper, and I think it's Slovenian News, which reads: "On Wednesday afternoon, the police received a report about a untied dog who was immersed at the source of the Hubel River in Ajdovščina. Later it was found that the dog had escaped the elderly owner. Fortunately, the dog didn't bite anyone. However, police officers against the owner will institute a rapid procedure for violating the legislation on the protection of chewing gum." Some dog escaped an elderly owner, and we assume that he was wandering around in a mob and someone reported it, and the police took action with a payment order. That's what the story came out of. Let's ask ourselves what's missing in this story. Either there's another stage missing, or we say there's still a special police unit missing because of this dog, or there's a lack of a healthy farmer's mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Koren Gomboc has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u92	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Hello, too, Minister and Director-General Vursa! To discuss the relationship with animals literally means to discuss human beings. To prepare with the understanding of animals for the life of ourselves, to determine our own relationship with the human being, all great thinkers have proved; from Democritus – this says: "We are for the most important skills learners of animals; thus weaving and sewing spiders, house-building pencils, singing birds" – to Kocbek: "There is nothing like a room from a tree to a window, I don't like looking at a man from a humiliated animal." Let's think about the relationship to animals and look at the proposal for amendments to the Animal Protection Act, which aims to harmonise the law with the amended legislation of the European Union on animal experiments and to improve the protection of animals in various fields, with regard to the prevention of illegal trafficking of breeding dogs and cats, the better registration system for animals, the participation of animals at events and fairs, shootings, the greater role of municipalities, the prohibition of the possession of animals to persons who have been legally convicted of a crime of animal torture, and the change of heights and fines. The competent services would do their job better if there were more applications, but remember, of course, that in Slovenia, in the last year, the first two prison sentences were handed down on the basis of applications; in the case of Jurinčič and in the case of Simoniška. In the opinion of many, the penalties are inadequate or too low, but surely the victims will never return to their guardians again, we can say that a step has been taken in this direction. I don't think the crisis is or should not be the reason that people don't care about animals. It is a matter of assessing whether they are capable of caring for an animal even when it gets sick and becomes expensive. If there's no money, they don't have any animals. This is not something that can't go, they can also find their own new owner, the reason is certainly too low a level of responsibility. Unfortunately, no legislation can prevent animal torture because we do little in Slovenia in the field of animal welfare education, stakeholder information, control and sanctioning. The most important role in relation to animals is certainly the education and value system of society, which should be high on the priority scale. Unfortunately, all levels of education and education in existing school curricula lack such content. With adequate education, I believe that the basic knowledge of responsible ownership and humane treatment of animals within the Slovenian school system could save a lot of money, which is now being earmarked by the State or the municipalities for abandoned animals. As far as control is concerned, I believe that the current organisation is poorly efficient and is also being liberalised. Official veterinarians or veterinary inspectors are responsible for the supervision of animal torture not exactly among the priorities. Animal protection companies note that in this case veterinary inspection is insufficiently effective and is a strong civil society, which is in some ways a moral policeman to the supervisory authorities. The proposed amendments to the law on the activities of municipalities in the field of animal protection, the introduction of municipal duties and the regulation with the power to control two laws, namely the physical protection of animals and the control of microchip dogs, will of course benefit. The municipalities will also receive a basis or a means of providing funds to protect abandoned animals. In Slovenia we have 10 shelters and little less than 215 municipalities. It would be good to see how many have been contracted with the shelter. However, where contracts are concluded, there are difficulties in financing shelters or in paying bills for abandoned animals by the municipality. It is no wonder, too, that for one dog for 30 days in asylum the cost may exceed 600 euros. It is even sadder that the same animal can be euthanized after 30 days if no new owners are found for it. The prices for the daily care of animals in shelters are extremely high, as are the prices of veterinary services that people find difficult to afford, especially sterilizations and castrations, leading to unwanted offspring and subsequent torture. At a time marked by growing insensitiveness to the human being, when statistics again face the sad truth about the degree of violence in families, schools, youth and as destructive behaviour increasingly transcends the boundaries of the representative, animals continue to be helpless victims who share with us the fate of the time of decomposition of fundamental human values. All proposed changes are based on the principles of responsible ownership and humane treatment of animals, which is positive and encouraging. I therefore appeal to confirm any proposal that favours animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Joža Velikonja has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government! Main amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Animals are additional protection of animals used for scientific purposes and improvement of the system of labelling and registration of animals. I also believe that consistent and timely labelling and registration of animals is a basis for prescribing liability to the owner of animals. The next good step is to regulate labelling control, which will only improve animal protection. This jurisdiction is conferred by law on congregation officials. The law also has a number of good solutions that touch on animal treatment, as well as the protection of humans and animals against animals. Of course, the law creates dilemmas with certain solutions, such as granting municipalities the opportunity to introduce a special municipal tax as a source of care for abandoned animals. It's probably not a systemic solution. In the review of the report on the situation in the shelters for abandoned animals, we have also seen that there is no systematicity in this area. Above all, we talked about the intention to direct profits. I hope that the envisaged reporting to municipalities and Vurs, for which the public service is responsible, will reduce the risk of illegal animal treatment. Given that the law also regulates the conditions for gaining the status of society in the public interest, I miss the orientation of the law also in the field of education, which would particularly inform young people of the field of animal education and protection. This way future owners can learn in time how to treat animals properly and responsibly before they decide to own them. Otherwise, I believe that the proposal for a law with certain corrections and additions is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Let's get ready, please, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Of course, it is an important marriage, although in this crisis, as has already been heard today, children are without lunch and more, but we are protecting animals here. These animals don't have a union, they can't fight for their rights. Of course, it's a little difficult to discuss after a discussion by the party colleague Majde Potrate, because she's picked up a few points for me, but I'm just going to repeat them. The need to register other animals. Look, there are snakes, spiders in the apartments, and in the United States, there's a python that's already eaten the baby — so I don't explain it any further. So, there's also going to have to be something on this side that we don't just talk about dogs and cats. Furthermore, as has been said, I propose that we replace the word owner with the word custodian, because I am not the owner of my wives either or she is not the owner of me and so on. We can have this property to objects, not to living beings. I know that more modern animal protection legislation is being prepared in Europe. Among other things, the dog will not be allowed to be on the chain to be in the doghouse, depending on the weight of the animal and so on. So there is probably another fully updated animal protection law ahead of us in the short term. When we're talking about a circus to simplify things, let's think about, what if a lipican there in a mannequin dances, when a horse skips obstacles, when we teach a police dog to jump into a fire and rescue and so on — is this animal torture or not? So just to cut off: there must be no animals in the circus – I don't know if I agree with that. It is indeed the task of inspections, veterinarians and so on to ensure that these animals are properly fed, that they have time for rest and so on, that I will not be too smart. It happens to us that domestic animals, pigs, or cows, live up to their stomachs in the mud, and no one moves to do so — I have recently read about it in newspapers. It's about a special utility tax. Let's think about it. Will all citizens pay a special municipal tax, this is a new tax, so that the shelters will have enough money for their activities? We are already paying because the tax money is the municipal money for the shelters. Let us also place under a special municipal tax that the congregation will pay public sanitation, and when you go to the minus, you will not have to pay, but these sanitations will be compulsory in every city at hand, so that we do not search for bars to get you to the point of need. These are things that still need to be discussed, and to be taken into account: yes or no. I think it is right that this law is here today, that it is in the first reading and that we will have time to discuss it. My problem is also execution, animal euthanasia. When I was home, I always had dogs, so I had a relationship with animals, no worries, very good. But I meet him here in the city of lords, and he's followed by a dog, and he's barely dragging, and I ask him, "What is it?" He said, "Yeah, you know, he's poor, he's deaf and he's blind." And such animals – I know they grow to your heart, but such an animal also suffers franticly and this does not lead it to a veterinarian. And there's no director, no one who would say, "Lord, such an animal needs help, one way or another." So merciful You know, when you grow to your heart and then in your bed lies a completely sick, packed pet, it leads nowhere, especially in blocks – infections, diseases and so on. [[...]] I think that this law needs to be supplemented by some amendments, or in a forecast, perhaps by the ministries, that in the short term, this law will be more rigorous or generally processed, then to prepare some of the things that I have discussed now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. I see he's not in the hall. Next up, Mr. Janko Weber, get ready for mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. With regard to the Animal Protection Act, I must say that we have had a number of discussions in the Group of Members with interested associations that do indeed work with the heart in this area, and many times then you will also come up with proposals that have not yet been written in the legislation or are not included in this proposal. However, I believe that one of the important solutions that we have been trying to agree on is precisely the functioning of shelters. In fact, all too often these things happen to be extremely expensive or also organised in a way that even local communities that are supposed to secure a certain number of places in these shelters in a situation where this quota is occupied – they simply cannot solve this problem. Of course, the consequences are then mainly reflected in the condition of animals that do not have adequate care and are left to grace and mercy, fates, and those who are or are competent or perhaps not even competent at some point take such powers into their own hands. So this idea of shelters, which could function on the principle of a social enterprise, is something that I think should really experience an upgrade, especially in the sense that it is not about providing animal goods, but about caring for a living being, which is right for those who also want to do it with all commitment. This kind of dedication is also often the case when we encounter cases in practice of some even subjugating their own way of life to caring for animals. Clearly, this area is extremely, extremely sensitive and is important in how we approach animal care. Therefore, this emphasis on social entrepreneurship not only gives those who really want to work on it an opportunity is also, in our view, an opportunity for a new form of employment. Because, however we look at it, there are many times that in an environment where the economic crisis has already hit a number of businesses extremely hard – and this has also caused high unemployment – it will be difficult to provide an appropriate fee or a tax that would, for example, allow the local community to collect certain money at the expense of municipal taxes. Especially on this occasion when we are faced with the fact that the government is supposed to release prices after the new year and we are looking at a 260-, 300-percent increase in municipal services. If we add this additional duty to it, I would like to point out that in many environments it will not be easy to apply. That is why this form of social entrepreneurship is an extremely important category, which needs to be developed and then tried to offer not only a solution for the protection of animals, but also for providing jobs in environments where it is difficult at some point to replace lost jobs, but at the same time this concern is always present, because in all these environments people also have pets, if we can say so, and there are also moments when it is necessary to take over or provide shelter, that there is no problem, torture or suffering of animals. So it seems to me that this aspect is one that should be followed by all these solutions that we are listening to, that food can also be stimulated by value added tax and that this will have no effect on domestic animals. It may also be of greater interest that someone simply does not have a pet with him, but will be forced to seek a solution in the shelter. The entire network of these activities, which are taking place at this moment, is of such nature that they must be analysed before the final text of the law that we have before us today is adopted. I think that in further discussions we will certainly be able to form if the Ministry does not come to the right solutions, including amendments, to this law, which would at least be much closer to what I wanted to point out in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Ambrožich. Get ready, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Allow me to begin by expressing my view that the law is suitable for further discussion, but allow me to have a few more observations. I also support some of the provisions that the proposed law touches; in particular, the ban on ritual worship without prior stunning, as it has been said today by some speakers that such a case, except one, has not yet been observed in Slovenia. I also welcome the meaningful introduction of the contribution made by each congregation to the care of abandoned animals and introduced by this law. I also consider it negative that there is no ban on the performances of animals in circuses. Like one of the speakers, I think that colleague Bosic rightly said that in the age in which we are currently living, he gives us opportunities to observe such and other animals remotely. Perhaps this form of presence of animals in our immediate vicinity is also inappropriate, especially from the point of view of their suffering. So in Parliament, we have a new law on the table that is supposed to lay better foundations for the protection of animals. However, it should be comparatively said that if we are already following other arrangements in many cases, it may be necessary to consider the arrangements that Americans know in their legal regulation of this issue, where they know even the so-called animal protection police or the recently established forensic unit, which identify guilt in the event of animal suffering or neglect, which is otherwise under the jurisdiction of the relevant inspectorate in the current animal protection legislation. Still, to think. Therefore, the future amendments, which will go in an appropriate direction to improve the condition of animals – not only pets, as was the case today, but also other living things in Slovenia – will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'd have the word "magic." Tavš, but next up, Mr. Matevž Frangež. [[...]] Get ready, Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u102	Marriage is an important step in the right direction. I am pleased that, in a particular area, we have better standards for the effective protection of animals, on the other hand, for appropriate and effective Community sanctions against those who do not take care of animals according to these standards. They are even tortured, tortured, and thus manifest a low level of their own humanity. Our attitude towards the environment, our attitude towards animals is our relationship to ourselves, and in this regard I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also a great initiative of civil society, which has been excellently organised on this topic and has put before Slovenian politics a certain demand that it responds and is found here in many of these areas of the common language. It is undeniable, however, that some of the far too humane and advanced ideas of civil society have not been given their place in the letter of the law in this proposal. I am confident that further changes in the law will be experienced soon enough by bringing this subject to the fore, I hope. The law will also be improved in this legislative process. We see some gaps where that's possible. One of these is a very ethical question which my predecessors have already mentioned, and this is the question whether an animal is a thing or is it possible for animals, which should also be entities, not just an object of law, to exercise ownership right, whether it is therefore a thing that can be owned, or whether it makes sense for us to introduce here a more advanced institution of custodianism, which, by the very concept of law, is mentioned everywhere, only in the case of the registry question is mentioned by the animal chronicle. One of the things that we haven't had a satisfactory solution to, for example, is the question of chained dogs. Some European countries have already taken a bolder step forward here and have banned such a constant attachment to the dog, usually with steel chains. I think that's the task that awaits us. True, many, especially in the countryside, are often the only way today to limit and limit the dog’s potential movement. I think it's right that we should say the same thing as Austria, where today's ketna, if I say so, is already forbidden to take this step in the future with us. I look forward to one solution in the law that some of us have warned about. Well, colleague Ambrožič will remember that we discussed this idea years ago as dog walkers on the streets of Maribor. In fact, the need to provide within local communities suitable fenced areas, where it will be possible to exclude a different law order that the dog should always be present, also softened. The fact is, often it is not enough for a dog to walk, but if you have a dog of a more lively character, such as our family dog, you need this significantly more running, you need significantly more movement than just a normal, calm walk on city streets. In short, I think the government here could listen to civil society. Congratulations to Minister Bogovich. The fact is that the tasks remain and the Social Democrats will also insist as one of the expressions of our humanity that we are also making progress in this area. In this regard, in view of my colleague Majda Potate's discussion, which I fully agree with, I say, however, that I think dogs are also democratic animals.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the next word to prepare Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u104	The law is good. This is a rare marriage where we are all united in this temple, regardless of the political option. If this does not mean, of course, that only animals can unite us, then I suggest that those who do not yet have their pet do so as quickly as possible. With this law, we let everyone know that we feel responsible for animals. The same should be done when adopting other laws that directly affect our citizens and citizens. However, I have a comment because the proposal does not contain a provision prohibiting live animals from performing circus plays and I propose that the law be supplemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I've already put the main things more at stake than the things that seemed the best to me and the things that I just missed. I probably won't say anything new, but I'd like to talk about what my colleague was talking about earlier about tying dogs to chains. I am aware that time and space are the same as it is, and that there are some patterns that, of course, have been dragging for decades, that this is the majority of people, especially in the countryside, not just there – I do not mean anything bad – it seems normal to interact with an animal. But I think that with some kind of preventive action — or rather, with some awareness — we should simply start thinking differently. I am convinced that even after this knowledge has come to people themselves, they would have behaved significantly differently to their animals. I don't know that some dog spends his whole dog's life, which is really dog-tied in this case, I find extremely unacceptable. This is also the matter that the law deals with — I would consider it inappropriate. So if the dog is on the chain, it's an inappropriate living condition for me, especially if it's a chain, short one meter or two. The same applies to dogs. I saw these motherfuckers where the dog could barely turn. This also seems to me to be an inappropriate living condition, as far as we're concerned. That's one thing to point out. I have already mentioned the circuses in one way or another that we will prepare – I think we are ready to talk and that we will prepare an amendment in this regard and, of course, propose a ban on circuses with animals. Now, in what form and content, we can talk about this. I am aware that a whole series of compromises have to be adopted in this law, and I accept them, because I myself would adopt a much stricter law, much stricter but good, but we go gradually, as I said, after people have somehow realised that having a dog chained all our lives is unacceptable. [[...]] Maybe we'll all start acting differently together and we'll be able to adopt even stricter laws, which I think is absolutely necessary. One such issue was also some courage that we saw — I mark it as courage — in the sentence of judgment. Although I don't think it's legal that I'm going to make any legal mistakes right now, it's a precedent when it comes to a court decision about torture in that congregation that I come from, and because of what I'm afraid of, it's a precedent. I think that we should go in this direction also in criminal policy, because such cases really are if I say there are too many of them, there should be none, but in this case it is indeed a terrible act. [[...]] Then it's the next thing. The big problem is both dogs and cats, but in recent times, as much as I face these things — and often so — cats are the ones in an even worse situation. Well, they have freedom, unlike those dogs on the chain, cats without owners still have freedom, only this freedom is of little benefit to them, because we also know how they multiply and then we have the whole cat herds of poor people who then cling to those houses where someone kindly accepts them, or else – because you know how it is. So let's say I know that a cat register in this case would be a tough nut, but I would still be thinking in this direction. As far as society itself and everything else is concerned, colleagues from SD have already said a lot about this. I am also more inclined to make this change to replace the word owner with the word custodian, it seems more appropriate to me, but I don't know what that means for all the other legislation. I don't know what this is all about, but I think it makes sense. What I would also point out is that if I stayed in one case again, for example, a person who suffered a great deal of suffering from his animal was also legally convicted or punished — I don’t know, it’s about interfering with some other framework of human freedom, but, perhaps, it’s also reasonable to think that he can’t just be the owner or guardian of another animal. I don't know how this is going to work out, but I'm sure if you were able to make such a good marriage, you'd find solutions for it; but if they were, then at all. I think it's almost imperative that it's written somewhere. Then it's about society. The proposals we have heard, as well as the proposals we have been involved in saying so, have also been proposed. It is a matter of a society which acquires the status of a society acting in the public interest in order to obtain the position of a party in an inspection procedure in which it has also submitted an application for torture of an animal. It is said that even the matter could then be monitored so that it would not be just this first step. As far as I know, after the new anonymous application is no longer possible, I think the law is somehow going this way. So you're gonna have to report animal torture by name and surname, as far as I understand from the law, or you're gonna have to fix me. In short, I think it is very important that the society that has detected animal torture also participate in the process and keep on the watch because I think the final effect would certainly be much better. As far as the animal police are concerned. I think that these are the wishes of many, and I myself am in favour of such a solution. But I do know that in this situation there is probably almost a blasphemous thought — but that’s all right! This can also be regulated within different institutions, not by the police as such, for example, within social entrepreneurship, volunteering or something like that. But, clearly, in this regard, a whole lot of matters should be settled again, in addition to the legal arrangements. However, it seems to me that there are many of these cases with us and that not all of us, but a very large part of the population, the population, are still not sensitive enough to such violations, torture or torture. It may also make sense to think this way. Above all, as I said earlier, awareness seems crucial to me that people themselves come to the realization that it is simply incomprehensible and unacceptable for an animal to survive his life on a chain. I mean, this should be clear to everyone, but it's not. This way we can also organize activities in this direction, not just with brochures or with what, but it seems to me that there is much better personal contact, a visit that can help. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Get Mr. Roman Zveglich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Members and Members of Parliament have also received a letter from a civil initiative representing more than 30,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who call on us not to adopt this law or to reject it. At the same time, they also prepared for the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, and they also proposed specific amendments or additions. The Ministry, which is responsible for this area, calls for a thorough examination of these proposals and takes them into account as far as possible. Some have also highlighted my colleagues and colleagues in particular. For example, instead of the word owner is a nicer and more substantive word guardian and so on. At the same time, Article 18 of the bill also allows for the introduction of a special contribution, it is said, a special utility fee paid by all households in the country. That seems a little bit more controversial to me. One law on the balance of public finances on the one hand, one such law on the other, one municipal tax on the other, the other on the third hand and those household costs on the other. Reducing social contributions, lowering pensions and so on. We have now heard that one of the Slovenian municipalities increased municipal services by 100 percent. The parishioners uncritically sit on various radar service providers in their cities to raise the municipal budget. I don't think it would make sense that there is any other way to deal with problems that touch municipal taxes that would be prescribed for these things for all citizens and citizens. Here's to the end. I read an article that two dogs have also proved to be an excellent police dog, a specialist, a drug hunter. I, too, in ignorance, admired the minds of these dogs until years ago, a retired professor of anesthesiology explained to us that these dogs were first made for drug addicts and that after they discovered the drugs, they would get the right reward. This, of course, is the suffering of animals, similar to medical experiments on living beings. Especially such dogs are effective when, as in the English word, we say 'in need', so this is really a question of doubt and I think we can also sort this out with the law and ban it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglich has the floor. Then there's the proposer, so the government has a choice of words.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues! By this law, we try to regulate this relationship between humans and animals. Now, thank God we're not even trying between animals and animals, because then I'd start to wonder if my kitten at home on the farm can still hunt mice and other rodents or not. This gives me the idea that it is good that we no longer plow horses on farms — what would it be like to suffer other horsepower in different forms today? There used to be a lot of talk about chains, housing and so on. Although I am firmly convinced that everyone is not suitable for the owner and even less for the guardian of the animal. For I consider these to be different notions: the owner can buy an animal and give it to someone. That way we can't just unify this thing. Of course, the owner must also have his duties and the custodian must have many other things. In doing so, I must say that I've taken possession of the three kittens that someone brought in and dumped them near my farm and they've come in. Otherwise, they're still introducing a hierarchy and it's quite a scratch and also a loud scream, but these things are going to have to be settled themselves. But I'm trying to help them make things as natural as possible. Even the doggy dot we have on the farm – I must say that we have never had on the farm of tied animals, of course we have changed quite a few things because they were such and different circumstances – and it now has another chapter to these three kittens, but in my opinion they will soon be introduced. There's already two of them. They've got some work to do with the third. [[...]] Around these accommodations; otherwise, I think that the couch in the living room is a completely inappropriate living space, even for cats and dogs, but this is my opinion, which opinion can be different. But it is true that the chain is completely inappropriate. You should also look at these owners of domestic animals, small animals in urban settlements — well, this animal requires a lot from its owner and guardian. Another thing is around these costs that the congregations have for an abandoned dog who comes to the shelter. These costs cost the congregation about 300 euros for 30 days. That's about 10 euros a day. To illustrate, I myself, who also manages bulls, get about EUR per day for the supply day. So, I have to buy a calf, I have to protect him, I have to offer him full medical care, a veterinarian, if necessary, to provide all the feed and, of course, if I sell it well, then I get about gross for the day of supply – one euro if I refuse to buy this bull. This is the market. That's the reality! Let's have a little more questions about that. All these matters, which we prescribe legally, are said to be found immediately by budget money hunters or in a state manger. Around the circus. My opinion is that there is no greater suffering in circuses than in dog training than in horse racing training or in other legal animal matters. But maybe I'd like to turn to something else I mentioned earlier, which is a so-called ritual slaughter. I have already received a response from the parliamentary group that certain citizens have called and marked me as a raw material. I'm not a raw material, I've never killed animals in my life, even though I've caused a lot of them. The first thing is, last year, I was sorry this summer in Italy, when I sold one of my bull trucks – and with my friend – and we went to see how they had it done in Italy, we went to watch the terms of the slaughter because we found out that it would be one small slaughterhouse, but there was another surprise; it was a hallowed slaughter for Muslims. The butchers who were trained for this came, and when I watched the slaughter, no slaughter or killing of animals was humane. [[...]] This must be clear because we have some terms about human slaughter; but slaughter is slaughter. In the final stage, I would not like to be a grave, an animal, if it is intended to go to another world for animal nutrition, is in the final stage no matter how it ends. And this process of worship at the hall didn't seem any more horrifying to me than what our slaughterhouses are doing using the so-called human slaughter. However, it may also be a market niche, and another story could be told about this market niche. An interesting report in the magazine Farmer – later I will also give this article to Minister and Director Vurs how many Turks in Germany get together in advance with the owner of these animals, select an animal, select an ear number, agree on the time of the church, which is the 70th day after the end of the post, after Ramadan, after the so-called "Kurban Bajram". Back then, on this farm, where they also have a slaughterhouse and a section permit, or very much in such improvised matters, which we would never have done, they slaughter these animals. This is a market niche for that farm and also for members of the religious community who can have their own tradition of belief. Something similar could also be discussed in Slovenia with a smaller slaughterhouse, this could be a market niche, so I think it would probably be good to have in law a provision that this would require prior authorisation, in special rooms as it should be, and this thing would be allowed for interested breeders and also for members of religious communities. Finally, I will add another thought, although I believe that in the Republic of Slovenia, small animals are well cared for – legally and otherwise, depending on the owners. I think they're big animals, and I repeat that now, cattle and not animals, are too protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. He wants a proponent, that's the government, the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u112	Very briefly. First of all, thank you for this united support that the law is appropriate, as I have understood from the point of view of the parliamentary groups. Thank you also for this debate and for the proposals that have been made. Just as the law has been drawn up so far in such a way that it has truly wanted to listen to as many expert opinions as possible and to the non-governmental sector and to produce the best possible law together, we will continue to do so. I believe that in the end we will be able to adopt a peaceful conscience. Thank you very much and I do not think that there is any need for special comments today, either, because we are talking about a general debate. We will discuss the details further at the Committee of the National Assembly itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. As I no longer see the interest or need for further discussion, I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Wednesday, 21 November 2012, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u114	The proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection is, as you said, this next law, which we want to adopt in order to implement a rational and integrated approach in the field of safe food. The proposed law brings together the Veterinary Administration and the Phytosanitary Administration, a large part of the Directorate for Food Safety and a part of the Agricultural Inspectorate into a single institution with the status form of the body composed within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which is called the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. In particular, the tasks of the new institution will be to prepare safety regulations, manage risks to human, animal and plant health, carry out uniform official controls in the safe food chain, including monitoring of risks. The law clearly sets out a chain of command, which is essential for rapid and effective action in the event of threats to human, animal and plant health or consumer safety. The new administration will cover plant health, plant protection products, seeds, feed, animal health, animal protection, safety and quality of food of animal and plant origin both in administrative and control work, with the exception of administrative tasks in the field of the protection of agricultural crops and foodstuffs – here we are talking about quality schemes which remain within the Directorate. Because this law interferes with so many areas, it is also proposed in such a way that it interferes with ten laws. We wanted to do this so that the law as a whole would remain consistent, for if one of the laws had not been adopted, the consistency of the law would essentially break. In order to enforce the proposed law, from the four bodies in the new administration will be joined together by slightly less than 400 public servants – I have already mentioned which bodies are merging. The new administration, as a body within its competences, will develop a single strategy and prepare legal bases, carry out specialised professional tasks, manage official controls in this context and also inspections. This represents rationalisation, which is very important in the overall contraction of public administration staff resources. The new administration provides for a single inspection to be carried out by official veterinarians, phytosanitary inspectors and food inspectors. Single legislation will no longer duplicate or grey zones under the jurisdiction of various inspections so far, linking the four existing information systems to the rationalisation of work processes and the exploitation of human resources and financial resources. The establishment of a new administration will achieve a uniform way of appointing laboratories. Fifthly, communication is important for business operators; and what is most important, we estimate that communication with consumers now taking place on a partial basis, by individual competent authorities, will also be more effective in the new administration. In the area of food safety, we are therefore following rationalisation while ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, taking into account animal health and animal protection, plant health and relevant information and consumer protection. The National Assembly held the first reading of Law 25. 9 and 26. 9. Adopted that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration, on 7. 11. The law was addressed by the Home Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and adopted the text of the proposed law with amendments included. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, Mr. Secretary and Team, nice greeting! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal at its 13th meeting, on 7 November 2012. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, Legal and Legislative Services, Agricultural and Economic Chambers of Slovenia and the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia Pergam participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was accompanied by an opinion on the legislative and legal services. She had two comments. The first was a nomotechnic approach, since the law operates on the principle of omnibus, which should be used exceptionally and restrictively. The second point is the legal system’s nature, since the law regulates an area which can also be regulated by a government regulation. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the law while at the same time reminds us that one part of the inspectorate, namely the Health Inspectorate, remains at the Ministry of Health. The Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia supported rationalisation and warned that it had not participated in the drafting of the law, and also as the Council of State warned that the whole area of food was not under the responsibility of the new administration, but remained part of the Ministry of Health. A representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia, Pergam, also participated in the debate, assessing that the law is premature and constitutes a step in the wrong direction. In the debate of the members of the committee, members of the coalition parliamentary groups felt that the bill established an effective system that prevented duplication and allowed each system to bear its part of the responsibility. In addition, it provides for a reorganisation that will ensure a more transparent review of job systemisation, allowing for rationalisation of work in administrative and other areas, a uniform and comprehensive risk management strategy, a uniform and transparent way of communicating with business operators, consumers, more uniform functioning of laboratories, greater transparency of results and therefore support such a law. On the contrary, members of the opposition committee felt that such a change was unnecessary because Slovenia already had a system of control that was functioning well. Moreover, the novel does not address the issues of how to improve control of safe food. Following the meeting of the Committee, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee also decided on a proposal from a member of the committee calling for an amendment to the amendment of the Pergamum to delete Article 24 of the draft law. This proposal was not accepted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and confirmed them. In view of this, a proposal for a law with amendments taken into account is sent to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 6th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 19 November 2012. So I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Two panellists have been reported, the first one has the word I see was interest. [[...]] Mag. You want to sign up later? The first one has the word, Mr Branko Ficko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. In Positive Slovenia, we have advocated a comprehensive approach from the outset to ensuring food safety, integrating all areas in the field-to-consumer chain. We have also warned that this amendment of the law is not a comprehensive approach, but is only a merger of existing services within a single ministry. We have warned that there is already a proposal to mislead a government that has talked about a comprehensive approach, which is not. This is the government by Regulation 2. 11. 2012 only proved when it adopted a regulation amending the composition of the Ministry by implementing 1. 1. 2013 It is said that, in our view, it is not a system-wide regulation of safe food, but rather the implementation of a politically agreed human resources policy. This means, at home, that we will do nothing but the current Vurs, the Phytosanitary Authority, the Directorate for Safe Food and one part of the agricultural inspectorate, and we will be given another superminister. This is a safe food for the consumer, which has also been promised in this temple, far from it, and the consumer will therefore not eat any safer and better food. For all these reasons, of course, we will oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I will not support the amendment of the Social Democrats itself to Article 10a, but will support the law in its content, as it is proposed. This is why the Minister has written down in his employment contract that he is responsible for the functioning of the agricultural and environmental director, that he leads and organises work processes and manages staff resources within his department. The Minister shall, by means of this proposal, do nothing but exercise his or her powers or carry out the work and tasks prescribed by his or her contract or legislation. As early as 2009, the Ministry of Public Administration had prepared an amendment to the Regulation on internal organisation, systematisation, jobs and titles in public administration bodies. It was already this tendency to rationalise the state administration, and there were also definitive restrictions and regulations on how many jobs an individual department, sector, body in the composition and the Directorate could have in order to set it up at all. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment is following this proposal, and I hope that other ministers will follow this. I think we all agree, before the elections, that we had a full mouth, how many organs we have to stop, what we have to rationalise in the public sector, and I cannot agree that there is one body that has 18 employees, that now I do not know what kind of disaster is going to happen if we link it to another body. This is done with the Phytosanitary Authority and thus with the Directorate for Safe Food, which would not be possible under this proposal for a regulation if it were to take effect, and I hope that we would also be able to put it on the agenda, there would be no conditions for it to exist. Look, agricultural policy is one of the most complex policies of the European Union. Many things have been done, or many European requirements, when this was introduced into the legal order of Slovenia, it was really only possible to meet the demands of Brussels. Therefore, in the area of agriculture, it has also happened that different unit organisations have implemented the same directives and that is why today the ear number in our Slovenian barns is controlled by two inspectors. This bill provides for a single inspection to be carried out by official veterinarians, phytosanitary inspectors and food safety inspectors. In doing so, it is essential that they come from the same institution, with uniform instructions, which, of course, will increase transparency of business, systemisation and competence of jobs will be clearer, internal communication will improve, and – yes, for the last time on the committee, honourable Member Gaspar Gaspar Mišič said that disaster is, if there are indivisible records now. Yes, they were, and now, by merging into one administration, computer records and registers will also be combined, and here, too, a pretty good part of the savings is expected. It is true, and I admit, that we do not make or apply this law from villas to forks, from villas to plates. And we took the first step when 2009 was a large part or health inspectors dealing with safe food, they were transferred under the auspices of the agricultural inspection. Today we are taking a second important step to have this chain complete, it will take another step to be another part, a smaller part, I stress a smaller part, health inspectors somehow attached to this chain. This is not why the law, which is good and follows rationalisation in this area, would be rejected. That is why I will support him today and at the same time actually congratulate Minister Bogovic on the success of what two of his predecessors have tried to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. As I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening an application for a debate on the amendment to Article 10. Three panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u122	Hello again! I was a little surprised by Mrs Katarina Hočevar, who explained the matter so well and would fully agree with her. However, I must say that in New Slovenia we have repeatedly stressed that we see a great added value in this united, unified Food Security Authority, as envisaged by the amendment of the law. For the time being, four services are responsible for ensuring that consumers enjoy solid food. In this new form, for example, when any crisis, error, infection occurs, we believe that this approach and the response of the responsible will be faster and more effective, and this communication will also be better. It also seems important to us that farmers will be burdened, as inspection controls will be lower in them and costs will be lower. It is not to be overlooked, however, that this results in lower spending of budgetary resources, while preserving the total number of employees. We have already called on the Government not to save on human resources and money in the field of safe food, and I repeat this call here. However, as we say, we will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Bosnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. The amendment, clearly, I support what is our party's position, but not the law. But I'd like to say why and what's bothering me the most. The idea of the law seems good to me, but it bothers me to carry out it in the sense of inspection in particular. In fact, I would read or quote something here because it was published publicly. Bob of the day, this is the stroke of the diary of the evening, and I'm not going to name the lady because I didn't ask for permission, but she's a cleaning lady. He says, "I don't feel like looking at what it says on the product, it's healthy, it's not healthy, how many preservatives it has, it's Slovenian or it's not. All that matters to me is the price. I'm buying what's in action, and I'm adjusting my menu." In fact, I think the responsibility to these people is also within the law. Thus, marriage must be held accountable to people, and there are more and more who buy what they can do. This means that our responsibility to them is greater. Therefore, I insist on those concerns which I have also expressed on the Committee regarding supervision, as regards inspections. I'm not talking about ear fillings, I agree with that, absolutely not, but I'm talking about control – and we know what that means, even for those who look at the price of the product, just to eat something.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Once again a lovely greeting, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister and Team! When we adopt such laws, we always ask ourselves quite simply: Will this make the Slovenian consumer safer? And here we have to look at what's happening as a whole, what we're seeing right now. According to the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets, which I hope will be changed – and here I support Mr Vaslet from New Slovenia – we note that the money for analyses that should be more significantly reduced in the coming year. In fact, the shopping habits of Slovenk and Slovenes are changing because of the increasingly difficult situation in Slovenia. Food is saved, bought less and sought for the cheapest products. This means that the risk in this area is increasing significantly and the country is reducing the resources of the competent authority by 12 % and the risk assessment is worsening. Well, you'd understand that we'd increase, but it's getting smaller. That's the first fact. The second fact that is important is that the law is essentially a step forward, this must be recognised. Some things come together, which is right. Once again, however, this is one of the many steps that we will obviously have to take. The biggest offense to this law is that the chain does not follow through. There is no reason not to follow foreign models, where there is also a health inspection as a whole. Thirdly, we must be aware that the change will follow again because the European doctrine in this area is being upgraded. We had the opportunity not many weeks ago to speak to the Commissioner for Agriculture, Dacian Cioloş, who is not currently the most responsible for this area, is Commissioner Dalli, who has had a scandal. But he also confirmed what we know in Slovenia, the system is under review, the system needs to be upgraded, because in Europe it works, unfortunately, unevenly. We still know, believe and know that in Slovenia the system of providing safe food, which has been very effectively developed by the Veterinary Administration in the first place many years ago, works well. In recent years, however, we have also had many positive stories in the area of the green chain, which the agricultural inspection has controlled so far. So the system works. However, in Europe it will change, we will go into a more unified system, and unfortunately we will also have to follow it in Slovenia. Why do we as Social Democrats propose such an amendment? The reason is simple. If you have reviewed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it is quite simple to say simply. It says that such a change that arises can be regulated by a government regulation. The government regulation allows such changes to be regulated by a government regulation within the same Ministry. That is why, as it is now written, we understand that in fact the government or the ministry is trying to transfer their share of political responsibility to the National Assembly. That the National Assembly will take the blame for any affairs that may arise in the coming years. We are opposed to this, so we have tabled these amendments. Those who propose such changes should then take responsibility legitimately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I see that interest is in the debate. So, I am opening an application for a debate on Article 10a and the amendment to this Article of the Group of Social Democrats. Three panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I am pleased that the former Minister of the Jews is also today – I think for the first time – acknowledged that this is a step in the right direction. Otherwise, it does not agree with all solutions, but it is a step forward. Why did I start with that? Because I know that he was preparing a similar law in his mandate, and I don't think he was implementing it just because he wasn't running out of time. Otherwise, the solutions were very similar to the solutions we have today on the table. Look, bringing together the area of safe food control, I think it's a good solution. It's not optimal. I also wanted the medical department to come under this wing. But once a person thinks about whether it would be right for health inspectors to go under the agricultural field, the question is, would that be the best solution? I think in the given circumstances, it's the right thing to do. I am convinced that the proposed law follows the principle of prudent use of resources, and in particular the aim is to achieve the greatest possible impact with as little resources as possible in the implementation of specific tasks under this single programme. Finally, in addition to all these general objectives, we have entered into a coalition contract to provide safe food, food security and the promotion of a balanced diet. We have written down that attention will also be paid to bringing together the area of all safe food to be organised under the auspices of an organisational unit. I think there's been a lot of talk about this marriage. To the fact that it is a step in the right direction, we have now come to, in fact, all of us, time will show if it is definitely that optimism. But I believe in people who are already doing this job because the food protection system is already good. I think that just builds him up. The same people will manage these tasks. Thus I would not be intimidated by some affairs that will take place in the future, and I fear such predictions or such predictions by someone who knows this system very well. I will not support this amendment, but I will support this law, which goes in the right direction. Of course, time will show when and how it will need to be upgraded and upgraded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u130	Since the Member asked me again, again as on the committee – thank you – I will answer the same. Indeed, the expert group has begun to prepare a legislative amendment, and the expert group has also visited several reference countries, and has also found that the Finnish model, which is slightly different from the current law, may be the best, but at some point the process was halted last year. The process was halted at a time when an escherichio coli affair broke out in Europe and then elsewhere. The European Commissioner for Health, now former Mr Dalli, has found out what we knew in Slovenia anyway, when we complained about how we have a superstandard, and elsewhere, not that the system is unevenly regulated to make a scan and there will be uniform guidelines. However, the system in Slovenia works very well, perhaps even the best at this time in the European Union, so it was then a political decision to wait for new directions and not to continue to change the organisational structure of the bodies that operate well. This was, honourable Member, the reason, not that the government lasted as long as it did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support the amendment, because then, in fact, we don't need this law as such and it doesn't make sense. If I get a little more involved in this controversy. According to my behaviour, the case was then stopped, it was not led forward for a similar reason, as the health ministry refused to approach it. But these are the rumors of your ex-partners at the Ministry. Then perhaps they speak to me differently than you, a respected former minister, have informed me. I would like to emphasise something else that we have a relative – after seeing food processing establishments in the European Union – in Slovenia, the best system of food control and control. I am even talking about those who are produced and processed in Slovenian food processing establishments. I told you before I was in Italy. In one slaughterhouse, when 30 cattle were slaughtered, the official veterinarian arrived only after the 26th animal was slaughtered. There can be no animal slaughter in Slovenia without the official veterinarian being present. This is also, of course, an important advantage in Slovenia, and this must also be told to Slovenian consumers when deciding whether to buy Slovenian food or not. Second thing. The advantage of Slovenian agriculture, not least of all, is that we have small surfaces, and not least then small series, and even if there are problems, it is easier to trace and the reaction is not so severe. Just look at the problem in Germany with the frozen ones — what were they, strawberries, or raspberries — says the former DDR. Then there were 10,000 children there, because it came from the great plantations of Spain, and until that came to pass, the consequences were catastrophic. In Slovenia, this traceability is much easier, it is shorter and also products that come from one point of human consumption are smaller. So that's the advantage. The other thing is about responsibility. He has to be responsible, and he is, especially in the first place, the one producing food for the people. This responsibility is the greatest; and it must also be the greatest! But the job is for people to control you. As I have already said, the confidence I used to say in the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian processing industry is excellent, but this does not mean that they do not need to be supervised. In Slovenia, this control is greater, more acute, better than in other neighbouring countries in the European Union. That is why I will fully support the law, of course I will not support the amendment to the article. I'm going to be married, it's one step ahead, it's better. Even if another new European directive comes along, it will be easier to upgrade it then than if we had to build it from the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I would like to join those debates where you have found that this law is unnecessary, especially because the Government has already adopted a regulation combining the Veterinary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and the Phytosanitary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia into one administration. If the government had been able to afford this before it went into amending this law, then we believe that it is really a waste of time today when we are adopting a law on something the government has already decided on. However, particular attention should also be paid to the fact that there is no reason to change the organisation of the poor functioning of the Veterinary Authority or the Phytosanitary Authority. And if we are talking about the area of safe food, then we should ask ourselves whether it makes sense to form a law and send it to the National Assembly, if there is no reason, a substantive reason in the field of the exercise of safe food control, but there is obviously some administrative reason for this law to go into this law. However, this administrative proposal means that, if nothing else, responsibility is confused, it is not cleared up. We need to know that this administration will have authority not only to carry out professional tasks and administrative tasks, but will also have control over the performance of these tasks. Following the regulation so far, such supervision was carried out by the Ministry or was the Minister responsible for this, since Article 72 of the Law on State Administration imposes that responsibility on the Minister. If something has to be addressed, if, for example, in the regulation so far, it has not been in such a way that the Minister has not exercised this control, then this deficiency could have to be remedied in such a way as to take account of this Article 72 of the Law on State Administration and allow the Minister to exercise effective control of the authorities in the composition of the Ministry. Now we have the feeling that an organ within the Ministry will oversee the minister. Therefore, we note that this is a less transparent regime, which can bring a number of inconveniences, and if we talk about the subject of safe food, such behaviour is unacceptable in our view. That is why we are also putting forward this amendment, with which we would like to point out that this law removes the administration as one who is supposed to have such high powers that, in our opinion, exceed even the powers of the minister. Once again, I stress that if the Government has already decided by regulation to do so, this is in its opinion of competence, but I do not know why the National Assembly is involved in this framework. This is done in a way that re-applies to the changes of ten laws with one law. It is undeniable that this also reduces legal certainty. So it is not only a substantive issue of control and functioning within the performance of the tasks, but it is also a problem of untransparent regulation of laws regulating the field of safe food. This lack of transparency once again undermines the many new issues that we have not had so far, but when this law is passed, if it is confirmed by you, of course, these new unknowns will arise. Such a way of adopting legislation, in particular due to some administrative desires, is also totally unnecessary at the time when we give priority to solutions, or at least should give priority to solutions that represent as little uncertainty as possible in the performance of tasks, as much as possible in the field of the economy, and, if you want, even in the field of agriculture, agriculture is also an important segment of economic activity, and if we introduce some new unknowns into this segment of economic activity, we have not actually contributed anything to Slovenia's recovery from the economic and financial crisis as soon as possible. I will also support this amendment, which we have also tabled in order to draw attention once again to all these shortcomings that we see in this law, and with little hope that this law may be rejected. For it will be of considerable greater benefit if this law is rejected, than if it is adopted, and thus we cause some new uncertain state, which does not bring exactly any added value and new quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Minister, then we conclude the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u136	Allow me to speak again after this debate on this amendment. In the introduction, let me say that we cannot support him, because the adoption of this amendment means that there is no such law. We have not prepared it to be accepted, nor to have ambitions and desires for human resources games, because, as has already been said, we are talking about a system that is very responsible and a system that works today. Therefore, even when some have met for the third time, we meet for the fourth time and repeat our arguments, I do not understand that it is still being said that we want to make any mistake with this law. We're talking about the bodies that are the organs in the Ministry. These are two bodies within the Ministry; we are also talking about inspection and we are talking again about the Ministry Directorate. The key focus of this – what has also been prepared professionally over the long term, according to the analysis of the situation – is to make more transparency, clear management, uniform records, uniform method of selecting laboratories, including information systems, and therefore I really do not know what anyone here can argue that there will now be any greater confusion in this area because of these activities and the tasks we have assigned to this law. The direction is just the opposite, and I firmly believe that it will also prove to be the right course in the future. We want, and as has already been said here, we are all talking about the need to make this state administration as thin as possible, to have it clear, transparent. I think it's a step this way. You are saying that you see no reason to talk about this because the system works – I believe that every system can always be improved. Yesterday, I was answering the questions raised by the Members concerning the water part. I also predict from this city that we will meet similar processes in the field of leadership next spring; but because I assess that the system does not work well, that we do not have a clear responsible person responsible for this, because we have fragmented powers and we need to go into unity. In this part, I think we have this great advantage that we have been evolutionaryally building up a system that has already worked well, let's be honest and honest in the previous regime. With the changes we've made here, we're not going to destroy this system, but we're upgrading it. Resources for governance and public administration, we all know they're very limited. Also, the number of people in Vurs, which was also exposed, has fallen from good 300 to bad 300 over the years, it is said, by almost 40 people less. We believe that with such rational actions, with the same or smaller means that are obviously available, we will be able to be of good quality to the tasks that we must carry out and are also the basic mission of these institutions. Nor do we come to the National Assembly because we would like to shoulder any responsibility. Interpellation has been put into the National Assembly, I have also been in politics for some time now, I have never been against a Member, so that responsibility is in any event clear to who is responsible for it, and it is very clear that the executive branch of the Authority is responsible for its work and must also take responsibility. As far as the Law on State Administration is concerned, it is very clear. Article 72 was mentioned earlier, that the Ministry is responsible for supervision, Article 21 of the same law also refers to bodies within the Ministry and allow me to read this Article – three lines: "The regulation may establish an administrative body within the Ministry [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the body in the composition’]] to carry out specialised professional tasks, executive and developmental administrative tasks, inspection and other oversight tasks and public service tasks." Thus, in accordance with the Law on State Administration, we are now bringing together more of these bodies – as we have already said, two bodies in the composition, part of the inspections, part of the Directorate – into a single administration and we believe that this level is improving. I am pleased that there is also a public talk in the National Assembly about one of the systems, the subsystems of the State that works and that it is recognised. I think it should also be pointed out that food, which is also safe in terms of different price levels in lower price classes, is also safe food. There's never been a controversy about that. We are talking, as mentioned here, about a quality scheme and similar things. We are talking about over-standards, about quality increases, about schemes where individual manufacturers merge, and this is how they want to present themselves to the consumer, and the consumer decides according to its habits, even according to its financial capabilities. It is certainly right to stress again: all the food that passes into circulation available to consumers must be safe and, as we see, is safe in Slovenia. As far as the relationship with the Ministry of Health is concerned, I must say that at the beginning of this procedure we have talked a lot about this, we have had different opinions, we have talked about this. I think we also remember the discussions that were two years ago when many debated whether farmers could take good care of safety. In this part there was also one by the Ministry of Health — I have before me a note from the meeting on July 19th, where my colleagues and I were at the meeting and, on the other hand, the co-workers of Minister Tomaž Gantar and we finally agreed not to go into this process. One of the key reasons the Minister has also mentioned is that this would mean that from schools, kindergartens, homes for older people, health care homes we withdraw in some way from this area, while these same inspectors carry out other tasks in these same areas in order to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, minimum health conditions, restrictions on the consumption of alcohol and similar things, tobacco products. Finally, on the basis of this meeting, the common position was also that, if we are talking about safe food, safety, it would certainly be a wrong signal to intervene in this part, in the context of rationalisation or measurement of the power of the two authorities. We were united in doing this, because otherwise those tasks that I had previously read and carried out by their inspectors should be carried out by someone else and also by efficiency if those tasks of those few inspectors in this area were to be reduced. That was why it came to the end that we should not take this step forward and that such a law was not necessary. That is why we believe that this law is worth adopting and therefore also oppose the amendment, which essentially has a total opposition to the law. In this work, however, this approach was repeatedly mentioned after the ZUJF — ten laws in the same place. We are talking, as I said before, about a container; if one of these ten laws is not adopted, we do not get this intervention, we do not get this whole. We are talking about similar matter, we are not talking about different materials like the ZUJF, but above all: once again, we want to make the system more efficient and believe that we can improve it and in the next steps, if necessary, we will also more easily adopt any changes to the European acquis in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, therefore, whether anyone else wants to, except for Mr Jank Weber, who has already applied. [[...]] If not, Janko Weber. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. The Minister's position that the situation of Members is very simple, since it is impossible to put interpretation against a Member, although it is an interesting position, but we need to know that it is usually for a bad decision that has been made and then appears in practice as bad, always states that the National Assembly has adopted this law and also in governments and responsible ministers usually say that the National Assembly has adopted the law and that they are only implementing what the National Assembly has adopted. Thus, when we talk about responsibility, we need to keep in mind that the National Assembly is a wonderful platform for making excuses when you want to shoulder the responsibility of someone else. And indeed, Mr Minister, we do not want such a situation to arise in the field of safe food, so that interpellation against the Minister should be applied. But it's a threat to people's health. And if anything is to be done in this area, that is why much caution is needed. If we say that the law did not involve the profession in this proposal and that this law did not arise on the basis of a consultation of experts within the area governing safe food, then we can only talk about this as a narrow political decision. This, however, is because we have certainly received a letter from all Members, which shows that in this process, in these proposals to change the organisation of the Veterinary Authority and the Phytosanitary Authority, for example, there was no possibility for the head of the national reference laboratory to participate. So one of the most important guides within the control of the safe food system has not been involved in the preparation of these solutions at all. He also pointed out that, even though employees were not able to participate in the professional debate, because the social partners, i.e. the unions, were not invited to see whether this change was meaningful or not and what that change would actually bring in the area of quality and security, i.e. the quality of the administrative service and the resulting food safety. I cannot ignore the fact that even if the two bodies unite, there will be a displacement of a certain number of people, even if it goes from one office to another in the same corridor, to a resettlement, this means some problems in the system of monitoring. If I only recall the extreme disastrous practice of losing 36 pages in the referendum initiative, where we are also dealing today with the question of interpretation against the minister, which we believe is also objectively responsible for losing 36 sheets. As you change after unnecessary, because there is no problem in the performance of these tasks, the Veterinary Administration and the Phytosanitary Authority, it will also occur in this case that an official will pack certain lists, have to transfer them to another office, third again to another, third, fourth and not excluded that these procedures will not result in the loss of some important documents that may be crucial to whether or not a food that may also be at issue. All these things need to be taken seriously today, and that is why I am also using the parable of the lost signatures, by stressing again, the lost signatures are a great shame, because we or she tried to prevent that fundamental possibility that belongs to people after the constitution, that they are also directly deciding on a question. But in this case, safe food – again, I stress, it is not about hurting human dignity and the right to make decisions, it is that we can even endanger the life or health of an individual, which is even more serious in my opinion, rather than restricting someone's right to express his will at the referendum and to support or reject a legal solution that has been adopted in the National Assembly. We must have all of this before our eyes today, especially for the reason that this law does not really need to be in the process at all. And why complicate your life where it doesn't have to be complicated! I think that the National Assembly would do a really great service, especially to the minister, including the government, to reject this law and save it many problems or there will be only one problem, but this one will be large enough to be caused by these problems, which can also be caused by this move and the replacement of the stamps, by replacing the markings on the door. In short, officials get some new employment decisions, a whole series of administrative problems in this situation, and, of course, there is a much greater chance that there is a mistake than this probability today when the system works – the error is never excluded, but the probability of a failure in this system that we have today is significantly lower than the change itself will result from the adoption of this law. In this case, I think it would be wise to be aware of how important decisions are taken by the National Assembly and that, after all, responsibility falls to the National Assembly, does not fall to the Minister. I reiterate that if problems arise, they will first write that the National Assembly has adopted such a law and that the Minister is only implementing it or that the Administration is just doing it and nothing else. Unfortunately, when reporting on the media, it is not said, for example, that the Group of Social Democrats strongly opposed such a legal solution, but that it is not recorded in the media, but that all of us who are in Parliament, those who oppose these solutions, as well as those who are supposed to adopt this law, are equally represented in the public and bear the same responsibility. A truly stronger public communication would be if this law were rejected and said not to deal with laws that are not necessarily necessary in the future, in order to adopt them at this moment, but also in the opinion of the profession, which exacerbates the situation in some area, in this case even the area of safe food, which is so and so already extremely sensitive and requires even more responsibility than in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. Then I'll open the application.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u140	I think these allegations need to be answered. First of all, as regards responsibility, let it ever be said who opposes what. It is also said that if anyone ever supports me when I supported pension reform from those benches and this has been said several times that the People's Party supported it in that mandate. Voters and voters know well what they support, what they oppose, and also what are the reasons for their support or opposition. I think they also separate the responsibilities of the coalition-opposition. When it comes to political responsibility, however, the loving truth is usually the executive power of the one who also pays for his errors by interpolation and similar instruments. Once again, no pronunciation range is this law. I've been alone in professional politics for years. I am not known for looking for excuses and looking for culprits in others, so we had no intention of preparing this law at the Ministry. I don't know what kind of expression I'd use, but it's reckless - let's say it's a nice expression - to talk about endangering people's health in this law right now. I don't think there's any need for this rhetoric. The precaution was taken, we did not go into copying any systems, but rather to upgrade our well-functioning system. There is no point in saying that this law was created within a narrow political group. To me, the study he gave me at the handover of your fellow Member, Mr Židan, was the basis for this work. From here on out, we didn't correct anything, I said earlier, what were the reasons for the health inspection, where there was a partial deviation from it, and basically the same people who prepared it for him continued this difficult task further in our mandate. Let us also operate on this with names: the head of the reference laboratory has talked about this, this is Mr Posedi, who also spoke from the perspective of the unionist. Even my colleagues, I talked to him myself, have been formally invited to these interviews four times. There was an intensive discussion just yesterday on the coordination of systematisation. After the principal who was in charge of this conversation, I was happy to know that these conversations were more or less coordinated. The profession we are talking about: surely no one intends to challenge the expertise of Mr Poseid, who is the leader of the national reference laboratory. Representatives of the Veterinary Chamber, the National Veterinary Institute, then the Dean of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Dr. Kosec, Prof. Dr. Hribar from Biotechnical Faculty, from the food sector – the Dean of this Faculty was also known for his time. That is why I think it is really unnecessary that you link some flaws to these – I agree with Slovenia's disgraceful cases of the loss of signatures that took place on the road between the National Assembly and the Ministry, but absolutely unnecessary – the contents that poison Slovenian political space, the Slovenian public, the Slovenian policy work even less valuable than it is already worth, and we are also burdening this law. The objectives are completely different, I think that implementation is also completely professional, correct and in this context I also want to continue to deal with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Zweglich wanted a debate. I see there's still interest. I'm opening an application for debate. Here you go. So to Article 10a and the amendment to this Article. The application shall be made. Two panellists have been reported. The first is Mr. Roman Žveglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. A lot of things have been said. Otherwise, I have to say that those 36 missing half-signatures wouldn't be digested if you spiced them up with such a rhetoric of Social Democrats. So much for the fact that we're talking about safe food. If you're going to arrest them like that, I'm not going to digest them. Second of all, if we're already at this 36 or 37. If the union of these 37 halves or 300, as many as there were, brought the whole bang into one food processing industry, I assure you that such a system is traceability and acceptance and everything so that we do not get lost. The storekeepers would do so and those official supervisors in these food processing industries. That's what I guarantee you. If you've ever had business with any systems [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u143	About the amendment, not about the signatures, Mr. Zveglič. Amendment, don't sign!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u144	I'm sorry, I'm gonna end this, too, but I would have expected that same warning a little earlier and that you have the same vats for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u145	I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u146	I want to say something else about the profession.Now the Minister himself has told you, and I wanted to tell you myself, and you have also learned that your fellow Member, said the former Minister, was working on this project. You may have been offended that you, as the leader of the parliamentary group, should have been informed of this project before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u147	Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. Please, let's focus on Article 10a and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Speaking of responsibility, in Positive Slovenia we have warned that in this case it is nothing more than self-control within the same source. So that means we can get a lot of stuff under the rug. In this case, I might be interested in this minister's response or perhaps the new director of safe food, who will answer to the affair in this case – God forbid it should happen – such as, say, a chloramphenic affair has never been explained or a mass infection with salmonella on the farm above Topolšica. If we come up with such stories — which one of you will answer to this new law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for debate. Here you go! Because I see there's still interest. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. That is why I will support the deletion of the newly established service, as Mr Ficko reasoned. It is that I have followed the comments of the profession and self-control within the closed system would remind us of any self-control within the system we are witnessing these days. That's it. But as for traceability, I'm fine when I'm a food buyer and I read everything that's written. And, for example, food processing cans do not provide traceability because only the manufacturer is listed or produced in the EU, in which part of the EU – not hearing the spirit! But it's beans from some of the former republics of the former Soviet Union or Europe, you don't know. The market assures me that some are produced in Primorska, that they are from Primorska, when I look at the containers, the crates are Italian. I don't know if the farmer or the seller only got the boxes or really came from Italy — well, those vanillas are usually from Spain. Don't tell me we have a lead! I considered cynicism to be the comment of a co-worker from the Ministry of Agriculture who said to me at a committee meeting, "Mrs. Potter, that's not a problem, and we're all coming home." That's the same thing that shopkeeper at the herb shop told me to make a basilica fist myself, because I can plant a basilica on my balcony. It's not about what I could do — you know what's going on in this life! But it's simply that one can't rely on what one reads, what gets as information, because traceability is not fully assured. Now for the first thing I wanted to replicate to Mr. Squirrel. I don't know if you were sitting in the hall or not when my fellow Member is a mag. He explained why the law had been suspended in the previous term. It is simply a matter of preparing new guidelines for Europe and not changing legislation until then. That's why, and no other thing that would be connected to hierarchy, resentment or anything else. I won't go into the details of his explanation, but everything in his magnetogram will be visible. However, this is the second time he has explained this, so that no third explanation should be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. And Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I just want to explain once again because my colleague Squirrel misunderstood me. I argue that today's system of organisation of safe food control is so good that something like that happened with the signatures cannot happen, or there is a minimum likelihood that it could happen. But if we change this organisation, we can reopen the inconsistencies, the opaque system that I have illustrated with these signatures, just to point out that it is not good to change what works. I say that this system works well today and let's not change what's really right, because then we're opening up a new stranger that we're only going to test when this new administration starts its work. The change is really unnecessary, especially because this system is functioning well today and cannot bring about the problems we face, say, in other areas. That's all I wanted to warn you. I hope that we are following the same interest in this and that it is in your best interest that such errors and inconsistencies should not occur in any way. In particular, I would point out that if something like this were to happen in the field of safe food, it would also be very worrying because it could endanger the health or life of an individual who could be the victim of such reckless decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The minister wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u154	To Mr. Fick's direct question. In practice, because food is a living thing, it is virtually impossible to prevent anything from happening in advance. The key to the whole thing is to build a system that detects what's wrong, to find out who's responsible, and to undo what we did wrong. Also on your question, who will answer: I hope that we have such a good system that has proved so far that we find the causes, the culprit, and that the one who does this is also responsible. If we have a system in which systemic errors occur and because of a non-functioning system there are problems, then of course there is political responsibility. However, I hope, and so far the system has shown that it works when the above-mentioned chloramphenicol affair has resulted in certain problems in the system, so has the one who ran the system at the time. Since then, this system has been run by someone else, largely as a result of the responsible decision of the superiors that there was something wrong in the system. As far as the reasons for acceptance or non-acceptance are concerned, it is always a matter of when you seek to make such a law. As I said before, we did not go through this law or change the law because something would have been wrong. That's what we went into because we wanted to make it better. It's time he wasn't as good as the mag said. He's a Jew, but he's measured in years. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. The government is running out of time. Even Mr Squeakych has a desire to discuss it. Just a minute, Mr. Squirrel. Maybe someone else, or we'll give the word to Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. In the entire debate and in the very matters I have not seen any change in the system. As far as I understand the matter, and as has been explained, the system is being upgraded and upgraded. If new guidelines come from the European Union, it will be even easier to bring them in with smaller cuts. It is true, however, that in certain records the system is improving – uniform records; also point 1, control, comes from one place and I think that the system will work better in this regard, but not worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I have not noticed that there would be any further desire for a debate, so we are concluding this debate and we will decide on this amendment tomorrow, on Wednesday, 21 November, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH LAW The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Secretary of State, Mrs. Brigita Chokl, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u158	Dear President, honourable Members! The Ministry of Health has prepared a systematic solution in the field of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities concerning the organisation of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the nine regional health care institutions. The whole issue was addressed by the Health Committee, where we had a very fruitful and long five-hour debate, so that I think we have explained the open issues, but this time I would take advantage of this opportunity or the obligation to give the main features of these changes. As part of the drafting of the law, we have come up with a number of proposals that we have taken into account to the fullest extent possible, so I think that even time limits and all the comments of those who had doubts about the planned reorganisation have actually received all the answers. Public health activity is an activity of public interest and must be ensured by the State. The current content and organisation of activities in 10 independent public institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, is in fact the same activity, which has certain shortcomings which have been demonstrated through their 50-year or 45-year work when these institutions came out of a certain form of sanitation. The proposed amendments to the Health Act are primarily aimed at strengthening public health activity while organising activities more rationally. With the status change to the integration of public health activities from the current ten autonomous institutions into two public institutions, we will pursue the following objectives: to increase and strengthen public health capacity and expertise and to exceed the current fragmentation of activities and to rationalise operations where cost-effective and economically justified. I would like to point out that the activity remains at current locations, only the status form of the operation of the institution is changing, which means that certain organisational changes are taking place in the structure and that services as such do not lead to complete centralisation, as they try to point out in the case of opponents of the proposal. The Institute for Public Health of the Republic of Slovenia will bring together all the activities of the Institute for Health Protection and Regional Health Institutions, which are now funded from the State budget, the funds of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and other public resources. The Institute will carry out a core public health activity that is currently undervalued and needs to get its place in space, because public health is the only branch leading to the cost-effectiveness of our health system. All research will also be carried out in this context. On the basis of its organisation, the Institute of Public Health will also acquire funds through European projects and other cohesion funds. All other activities now carried out by health care institutions and to a lesser extent by the Institute for Health Protection will be merged in the National Public Health Laboratory for the Environment and Food. The laboratory will provide services for the needs of the country, in particular for the purposes of official inspections of the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agriculture and Environment Inspectorate, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and will also offer free capacities to subscribers on the free market. This will ensure that all available capacities are used and thus can also be affected by a reduction in the cost of analysis which [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u159	Madam Secretary of State, you can complete the sentence, but very quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u160	In general, I have stated the main objectives of the present law and I think that the proposal is a good basis for the functioning of the public health system in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. In order to present the report to the committee, I give the floor to the mags. Layla Hercegovac, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u162	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome on my behalf as well! The Health Committee shall be held at its 2nd meeting, on 8 November. 11. 2012 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia participated, all representatives of the Health Services, the Institute for Health Protection and the Association of ZaNas. In addition to the text of the draft law, the members of the Committee received other materials from the Health Committee as material at the meeting. The explanation of the bill was given by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Health and stressed that the aim of the bill is to streamline the organisation of public health activities and other public health-related activities. The dispersion of activities in ten public institutions also, of course, represents a large number of management functions, administrations and other support activities in independent public institutions. The proposer therefore proposes the establishment of two public institutions, the National Institute for Public Health, which would bring together all activities, and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service then stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups in large part were taken into account, and the opinion of the Council of State was that the bill supported in terms of the establishment of the first step, but expressed the surprise that this time it had intervened in a partial and rapid manner in the Health Act, since so far all proposals to change the various pressing issues in this area had been rejected by reasoning that all issues would be addressed in a coordinated manner through a comprehensive reform of the health system. At the meeting, all representatives of the health care institutions present gave their views and opinions on the draft law. Their reasons for anti-counselling were based on the successes they have achieved in their work, which is also reflected in the positive results of their operations, and they do not agree with the rescue approach and the way in which they propose reorganisation of public health. In the debate, opposition Members were very critical of how to regulate that area. The proposaler was found to be inappropriate, and in particular an uncoordinated approach, both in the field of health and in other areas. The drafting of the legislative proposals did not take into account the opinion and position of the profession. On the contrary, members of the proposed group felt that the proposal for a law meant better organisation of activities and the development of the profession and better effects and transparency of action. The current financial and economic situation in the country also requires adjustment and rationalisation in the field of public health. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! Health is one of the fundamental elements of our lives, satisfying the need for survival and quality of life. The fundamental challenge of modern health systems financed by compulsory benefits is to maximize health benefits while maintaining the principles of solidarity, equality, justice and financial sustainability. The fact is that the Slovenian health system needs reforms, it needs changes, as the country is also experiencing demographic and social changes. We therefore need to strengthen the sustainability of health services, encourage innovation in health, improve public health, protect citizens from health risks. The tight financial situation requires us and at the same time gives us the opportunity to adapt the organisation of public administration to actual needs and financial capabilities. It is clear that our public administration is too large and not effective in doing so, so changes are essential in all areas, including in the field of health. The practice has shown that so far the organisation of health institutions has not produced optimal effects and the government has therefore proposed a new proposal from the organisation. What does this one bring us? It is a status transformation of public health institutions, and we will receive 2 national institutes from 10 independent institutions. So we combine related content, while maintaining a network across a country that works well. Thus, the region does not lose professionals, jobs and, most importantly, the profession remains on the ground, among the people. A transparent separation between publicly funded and marketed health services is introduced. It is important that we ensure as much as possible that there will be no manipulation of private income and public costs. We are increasing the efficiency of investment and procurement; and last but not least, such organisation will have an impact on the unification of laboratory activities, which will be subject to the interests of individual research payers to a substantially lesser extent, thereby raising the level of citizens' confidence in the expertise of the analyses carried out, as well as in state institutions as such. In the Civil Gazette, we support the proposal for reorganisation. We are aware that the success of the reorganisation depends on the performance itself and not on the legal framework, and therefore we understand the concern of the current directors of these public institutions, as well as some other experts, who point out the possible negative effects of such reorganisation. However, this fear stems only from poor experience with the cooperation of these institutions with the existing institute. We therefore call on the Ministry and all the competent authorities to prepare an appropriate system for this reorganisation, with the aim of reducing the number of managerial coordination, administrative and professional jobs. In doing so, it should review the full range of professional staff as well as all relevant professional profiles and not exclusively existing personnel on IVZ. Only if we know the needs of the population and take into account the specifics of the individual environment can uniform guidelines of the single doctrine be achieved. Therefore, existing experts in regional institutions are still very valuable. Therefore, let all involved in their contribution help us to achieve greater synergies for public health. This change is the first important step, but not enough. Therefore, there is much more to be done in other segments. The Ministry or government expects new measures in the future towards opening up the mandatory insurance market, eliminating waiting types, improving public procurement in health and financial controls, modernising health costs, establishing medical standards and standards and increasing efficiency in health investments. In the end, let me just re-emphasize the fundamental mission of public health; this is an ongoing and sustained effort for the health of every individual and of the entire population. We are convinced that the mission also lives successfully in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a law to reorganise public health institutions in Slovenia. By combining the activities of the Institute for Health Protection and 9 regional institutions, we will establish two institutions. Most institutions are organised by having three departments or centres: hygiene or health ecology, epidemicology of communicable diseases and social medicine with promotion of health. Microbiological laboratories also operate in the majority of institutions within the epidemiology departments and in the hygiene departments in the sanitary and microbiological and chemical laboratories. About the purpose, way of merging and procedures and the intended effects of such a merger in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were very interested in and taught and talked to various experts and representatives of the institutions. We will support the proposal for a key reason, which is in two different concepts of public service delivery. In order to carry out the main, essential part of public health activities, it is not even desirable to obtain additional resources by selling services on the market, as it must act independently. However, in the case of laboratory activities, it is more rational for the laboratory’s overcapacity to be offered to individual subscribers in the open market. Therefore, one of the purposes of merger in two public institutions is to separate the laboratory and the market part from the public functioning of the institutions. This is intended to overcome the current fragmentation of activities, increase and strengthen capacity and expertise in this area and at the same time rationalise business. Public health is of great importance and we must therefore ensure that the functioning of institutions in this area is better and more effective. It is therefore very important that the process of transformation into two institutions runs professionally and gradually, so we have adopted amendments to the committee for a longer period of implementation of the law. Even after merger, action must remain coherent in both the region and the country as a whole. In particular, it must ensure effective preventive action and reliable action in the event of possible epidemics or other emergency measures, as well as prevent the laboratory activity from being privatised or even purchased by foreigners and thereby damage public funds and funds invested by regional institutions. As in the debate on the Home Committee on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I repeat today that we will closely monitor whether the merger and functioning of public health institutions are regulated and organised as promised in the debates. The objectives of the draft law, such as the rationalisation of public health and other public health-related activities, and the limited means of achieving a quality public service delivery with maximum benefits, and as the most important objective, of course, which is to ensure the satisfaction of users, are committed to all of us, in particular the competent ministry as the proposer of this law, as well as the National Assembly and of course the contractors themselves, in order to implement this law jointly in a way that the objectives will be achieved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Health Activities, which has greatly upset a part of the professional public in the field of health activities, primarily because of its objective, which is a more rational organisation of public health activities and other public health activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer seeks to achieve the best possible quality of the public service by means of limited means, achieving the maximum benefit and satisfaction of all users. The current organisation of activities in ten independent institutions carrying out the same type of activity on the one hand and the Institute for Health Protection on the other, has many shortcomings. There is a significant fragmentation of professional capacities and skills, which, in the absence of experts in this area, is an obstacle to the development of activities. Due to fragmentation, the Institute for Health Protection and Health Care Institutions do not act as a single technical and technological system based on methodological and substantive connectivity, as each institution operates for itself. The current organisation is also irrational in the area of data collection and processing and access to data. The fragmentation of operation and poor efficiency are also demonstrated in the field of laboratory activity, and there is also inefficient use of resources and equipment in microbiological laboratories. Such an organisation of public service activities financed by public funds, where administrative supervision is also required, entails a great deal of staff burden for the Ministry itself. The dispersion of activities in ten public institutions also represents a large number of management functions, administrations and other support activities in independent public institutions. Institutional rights are also exercised through ten boards of institutions. All of the above results in high costs to be incurred in the event of rationalisation in order to carry out the activities themselves. The amendment of the law therefore proposes the establishment of two public institutions. Thus, it is envisaged to establish a National Institute for Public Health, which would bring together all the activities of the Institute for Health and Regional Health Institutions and would be financed from the State budget and would carry out public health activities, including all public health functions to be provided by the State. These functions are in the public interest and are defined as such by the World Health Organization. However, out-of-budget funding sources can also be provided through research and fund-raising from European funds. The National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food would combine all IVZ laboratories and health care institutions. He would provide services for the needs of the country, in particular for the purpose of monitoring official, inspection of the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agriculture and Environment Inspectorate, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. The key reason for organising activities in two separate public institutions is in two different concepts of public service delivery. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the proposal of the novel brings good solutions, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much. New Slovenia delegation group, Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, again. A special greeting from the Secretary of State and everyone else. With amendments and additions to the Health Act, we are interfering with the organizational changes of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Health and Regional Health Institutions. The proposal provides for a merger of the Institute, as the pre-pronouns have already said, and I would not repeat it. On the Health Committee, representatives of the public concerned had the possibility of drawing attention to any problems that might have arisen. They were particularly concerned about certain cross-border projects implemented and used successfully by European funds, as well as purely specific public health programmes that are more topical for each region, such as prevention or reduction of suicide, as well as other areas. In this regard, we are comforted by the Secretary of State's words that this is not about abolition, but about the status of the transformation of the district health care institutions, which will be after the new organisational unit. Therefore, the regional network remains, and will continue to be able to carry out cross-border projects unhindered, as the regulation states that it is necessary or sufficient for the candidate to have a leading partner or organisational unit within the area of cooperation of the operational programme. In New Slovenia, we support the proposed reorganisation, as the doctrine of work is uniform in addition to rational management and direct financial savings. At the same time, in New Slovenia we note that organizational changes need to be tackled with extreme sensitivity. We expect the Ministry's generous support, particularly in the drafting of the instruments and in the provision of other sub-legislative rules relating to those reorganisations. We expect that this amendment will make an additional contribution to the stabilisation of public finances if the transformation of existing legal forms is carried out flawlessly. Of course, we are also aware of possible change traps, which depend on the management skills and skills of managers, so that the reorganisation does not make the level of service provision worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the law is not suitable for further consideration and its implementation would have negative consequences for public health. We are talking practically about healthy food, drinking water, a healthy environment, a healthy lifestyle, that is, local interest and national importance. In order for this system to work best in Slovenia we have developed the Institute for Health Protection and nine other regional institutions, some even celebrate 90 years of their existence. These health care institutions are the gateway to all threats to human health in a region, and it is important for them to operate locally, i.e. autonomously. This law now takes this autonomy of action and, as we have already heard, two institutions are established; one for public health, one for the national laboratory – i.e. monopoly and centralisation. I would remind you that we once separated from a common country, we had a desire for autonomy, but then Belgrade offered greater autonomy to these institutions than Ljubljana would now offer, not because of mercy, but because they knew that it was only possible for the regional institution to operate specifically for the region, i.e. autonomously. On the Health Committee we had two meetings and it was all about eight hours, today the Secretary of State said fruitful debates, I would say bile debates where we realized in the debate that the profession was mostly against. Since the country has reduced public health funding by 50% over the last 15 years, these institutions have been forced to seek money with their own ingenuity on the market. The content of this market activity is still public health and it is simply a financial substitute that can be implemented at all. Now this organisational change will also be no more money and the logical consequence is a decline in quality and the scope of prevention and promotion programmes. If public health were strengthened, there would be fewer curativities and reduced costs in the health sector. Now with this law we are guaranteed to do the opposite – within one to two years, health indicators will deteriorate, health costs will increase, and this is not witchcraft, but a professional forecast. That is why I would like to call on the legislative and parliamentary proponents who would vote in favour of this law to take full responsibility when analysing and evaluating health data, not only morally, but perhaps, for example, 10,000 euros in fines or something like that, if the indicators go down. The proposed reorganisation destroys the regional approach to addressing public health problems and re-centralisation, which is why we cannot agree in Positive Slovenia. The bill has only structural organisation, and the content is left to the founding act and we have not received answers to many questions in the debate so far, not even in those 8 hours. In short, I would like to present our position on all these arguments that we have heard for a merger. The most frequently mentioned word is rationality. It doesn't make sense! Firstly, we are saying that these institutions receive €5.6 million a year for operation, which is 1.6% of the total annual budget for health. And now with 1.6% talking about some rationality, I don't think it makes any sense. Secondly, it makes no sense because in any case everyone is doing a good job, some may not, but mostly it is not a financial deficit problem. Thirdly, institutions have already lost 20% of their money this year and are already fully rationally organised. And with regard to that savings of €1.5 million, as outlined in the bill, we also did not get an answer as to how it is structured, how it comes to this figure, because we believe that there will be loss, not savings. The next most frequently used argument is synergy – to make it bigger. Even now these institutions are working well together, they have a synergistic influence, and the law that provides for the generation of synergies due to unified leadership, that is centralism, that is against modern management. The unification of the professional doctrine is the next reason. Even now, it has been statutoryly established that IVZ and institutions operate as uniform [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much. It is always true that everyone can peacefully complete his or her sentence; even for the future. Mr. Stefan Tessel is still ahead of you. Here you go, mag. Tisel, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u174	Good bye to all of you! Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act was sent to the National Assembly by the Government. Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar, has decided on a difficult task of bringing together regional health care institutions and the Institute for Health Protection. Two institutions are expected: the National Institute for Public Health and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. Regional health care institutions have developed independently, adapted to regional needs and regional characteristics and have been operating for 90 years. The Institute for Health Protection is the top of the profession dealing with public health, it is a socio-medical, hygienic, epidemiological and health-environmental activity. Even now, institutions should work better together to increase the impact, and the Institute for Health Protection could lead a single doctrine and propose guidelines to the Ministry of Health. On the Health Committee, we listened twice to the arguments of the Directors of Health Services and the arguments of the Ministry of Health. Of course, these arguments are diametrically opposite, so that the directors of the institutions somehow advocate the existing organisation, of course with some urgent additions, and of course the ministry advocates a new organisation. As well as the Association of Health Institutions and the National Council, the State Council supports the law, but it has many concerns as well as the association of institutions, and comments on how to further organise public health institutions. We have also had some concerns in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The health system is a very difficult organisation that requires maximum activity and cooperation and also trust from all participants. Here I mean both health policy planners and health care providers, as well as people who use health care. The Minister decided to try to make better use of all existing potentials, of course there are fears of centralisation, loss of independence, loss of expertise. In the Minister's proposal, regional units of institutions will remain, and experts in the individual fields should be more coherent and more unified. Better exploitation of laboratory activity is also expected. However, since the amendment of the law is only the first step in reorganising such an important public health segment, a number of further steps will be needed, which are in the hands of the Ministry of Health, and which will complete a detailed organisation that will enable public health to improve and that experts will also be motivated in the future. We will therefore follow further steps on the Health Committee. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u175	Now, Dr. Black Nebula, please, the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u176	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. In our programming orientations and documents, we have already assessed in the past that public health concerns in our country are insufficient. The issue of public health rarely arises at the heart of public debate. Although we are adopting a new Health Act to regulate the public health sector more appropriately, the Social Democrats note that the current government of change does not resort to strategic baselines that define a modern concept of public health development and the resulting objectives. The bill focuses only on organisational changes in the functioning of the Institute of Public Health and regional health institutions and provides for the merger of the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and nine district health institutions into two public institutions: the National Institute for Public Health and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Nutrition. The merger is intended to overcome the current fragmentation of activities, increase and strengthen capacity and expertise in this area and at the same time rationalise operations where this is cost-effective and economically justified. The very rich debate at the two meetings which we have devoted to this issue on the Committee on Health has, however, shown that there is a high degree of agreement at policy level that the reorganisation of public health is necessary, but there are great conceptual differences in how these changes are to be addressed. The proposal for a new law does not constitute a comprehensive system-wide solution, but it encourages extremely contradictory opinions and views on the solutions proposed. The proposal to bring together the activities of the Institute of Health and Regional Health Institutions is therefore largely opposed by representatives of health care institutions, in particular by an argument of over-centralisation of public health and the consequences it would have for responding to specific problems in the regions, which could prevent the development and care of public health at regional level. In response to fundamental concerns about the proposal for a new law, the government has explained that it will try to reconcile its substantive solutions with expertise within one year. Wrong world! First we decide on the form and later we decide on the content. It's supposed to be the other way around, isn't it?Oh, my God! Based on a thorough substantive analysis, strategies for the development of public health in Slovenia should form the most appropriate organisational solutions. Why is that? Let me say that I am personally inclined to reorganise this area because I believe that the existing state of public health no longer meets the requirements required by the development of the profession, as well as the specific needs of people. However, in order to come up with an acceptable solution, I have proposed on the Committee on Health that it adopt compromise solutions and adopt amendments in content, as proposed by representatives of regional health insurance institutions. On the basis of the first compromise, we would maintain regional units as organisational units of the National Institute for Public Health, and the second compromise proposal would maintain a certain part of the laboratory activity within the National Institute, which is of strategic importance in terms of research and development in the field of public health. But this time too, with the stubborn insistence of coalition Members, it has been confirmed that no compromise solution that does not come from their side is possible to reach an agreement. The consequences of decisions that may also affect the deterioration of the level of public health in our country will have to be borne by the members of the coalition themselves. Members of the SD Group will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude with a second reading of the bill. We will vote on it in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be held tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item as well as today's meeting, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
