ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member of Parliament: Mrs Renata Brunskole from 3 p.m. on and Mag. Borut Ambrožich. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the real property of the State and the self-government of local communities within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr Helmut Hartman, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The main reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the Real Estate Act and of the Self-Governmental Local Communities are, in the first place, the repeal of the Law on the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the return of certain powers imposed by this law on the Public Property Fund of the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration. The content itself also facilitates the transfer of the right of administration to immovable property without proceedings at government meetings. The law also introduces a change in the real-estate management plans, namely the abolition of plans, the rental of fixed-state property and self-governance local communities, then the establishment of a ceiling on the number of legal transactions in the management of immovable and movable property of the State and of self-governance local communities that can be concluded by real-estate managers outside the plans, with a maximum of 20 % of the total value of the applicable management plans. The amendment itself gives the State and the self-government local communities the opportunity to conclude legal transactions dealing with movable property outside the existing plans for the management of movable property. The new proposal of the law provides for the possibility of selling and selling the immovable property of municipalities under the estimated value, namely for the development or activities of industrial and commercial zones, and other criteria such as socio-economic criteria may be taken into account in addition to the price for selecting the most advantageous investor. Here the government has followed a programme of measures to promote the economy, within the framework of a decision adopted by the Government at the end of May this year. The law also simplifies the free transfer of immovable property between the State and the municipalities. Here, let me say that there is no prior valuation of property and no specific justification regarding the exercise of public interest mainly because both the State and the local self-government communities are legal entities of public law. In the case of already concluded unpaid transfers of immovable property from the country to the local self-governance communities, the date of adoption of the amendment of the law shall be deemed to be met by the public interest. Finally, the possibility of transferring individual management tasks from the operator to the user and determining the responsibility for such a transfer shall also be governed by this amendment. So much is possible in general about the changes themselves, and I will continue to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly then decided or decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, pointed out the following in a complementary explanation the articles of the essential solutions brought about by the amendment of the law. Repeal of the Law on the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, following the direction of the Government, which decided in February this year to suspend activities relating to the establishment of the public fund. The abolition of plans to rent fixed state assets and self-governance local communities, giving operators the opportunity to adapt faster to market conditions. Ensuring the possibility of selling or renting municipal assets below the estimated value for the development or activities of industrial and commercial zones, while taking into account other social and economic criteria in addition to the price for selecting the most advantageous investor, and simplifying the procedures for non-payment of real estate transfers between the State and the self-government local communities, and ensuring that public interest is already met by the date of adoption of the new law. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. The method of Hrvat Pirnat stressed that the legislative and legal service examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. She explained that the opinion made comments on the 10 articles of the draft law, which were largely abolished by amendments to the coalition groups. She pointed out that there was no amendment to Article 9 and that the proposaler had made some clarifications in the coordination process on that subject, but the possibility of certain difficulties in implementing the law in relation to that provision could not be entirely excluded. Of course, the proposal for a law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, which supports the proposal for a law. In the longer debate, opposition Members expressed opposition to the consideration of the bill under urgent procedure. They considered that the reasons for examining the draft law under the urgency procedure set out by the applicant were not sufficiently substantiated and there were no concrete reasons for such a procedure. As regards the type of procedure for examining the bill, it was expressed by the coalition Members that everyone interested in its contents had sufficient time to examine and deliver their opinion, since despite the urgent procedure for adopting the bill, it has been in the procedure for two months. They also unanimously announced support for the amendment of the law. The most concerns and comments were later expressed in the debate itself at Articles 10 and 14 of the Act. Finally, the Committee adopted amendments to the SDS, National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and Nova Slovenije as regards Articles 1, 3, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 18, and 19. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which is also adopted by all amendments included, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Pišek, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to everyone, especially the guests on the bleachers! The government is in legislative procedure 9. Seven. 2012 tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. Article 16 and Article 27 of the Real Estate Act, which provides for a mechanism for the transfer of immovable property, repeals the Law on the Public Property Fund and Articles 16 and 27 of the Real Estate Act, which provide for a mechanism for the transfer of immovable property by the Government of a decision at least twice a year to transfer to its own public fund the immovable property of a State which operators no longer need to carry out their duties, property that has changed the status or destination of the property in respect of which any other circumstance has changed which has had a decisive impact on the fact that the property has not already been transferred to its property at the time of the establishment of the Public Fund. The new law provides for a different method of determining the operator of the movable property, namely that the operator of the movable property will, following the amendment, be the entity that actually uses the property and has a record in accordance with the rules governing the material and financial operations of the operators. The Novela also simplifies the content of the plans for dealing with the real property of the State and the municipalities and provides that the Government will regulate the procedure for their adoption in more detail by means of a regulation. This means that the Government, by amending the Real Estate Regulation and the Self-Governmental Local Community, would provide that real estate managers prepare proposals for action plans submitted to the Ministry of Administration. The Ministry of Justice and Public Administration will draw up a single action plan on real property and will be forwarded to the Government for final adoption by the National Assembly. The rules currently in force do not allow changes to the plans for the management of movable property during the flight. For this reason, the amendment allows for the possibility of such legal transactions also for movements, but within the percentage determined by the Government or the municipal council of each local community. However, it should be pointed out that the amendment to the Government or to the Council of the Self-Governmental Local Community restricts the possibility of setting a percentage of the total value of legal transactions that operators may conclude beyond the country's fixed assets management plans by limiting the percentage limit to a maximum of 20 % of the value of the existing management plans. The Law also contains certain measures designed to promote the economy by regulating the possibility of selling land to self-government local communities in industrial trade zones or the possibility of renting it below the value. The public concerned was largely taken into account by its proposals. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the amendments tabled has been fully taken into account. The Council of State is part of a positive opinion and the Slovenian Democratic Party also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! The proposal by the opposition Members to reconsider the decision of the College to deal with this law on a regular basis has been smoothed by the coalition members at the 15th extraordinary meeting. The government's emergency wave sweeps forward and creates emergency situations. The government, on the basis of a programme of measures to promote the economy under the designation "emergency", wants to bring it through a wide range of measures. Following the urgent procedure, we abolish the public real estate fund, which has not even started work since the Government decided, on the basis of a decision of 23 February 2012, to stop the activities relating to the establishment of the public fund. Whether this fund would work successfully, we don't know. However, we know that we have always been critical of this law or critical in past mandates, and I quote "to the Proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate plan of over 300,000 euros per year for public administration authorities and judicial authorities for each financial year". We have called on all Members of Parliament to change this. In its large-scale opinion, the Commission also pointed out the non-compliance of the emergency procedure. However, since the law is here, we will probably not oppose it in the Group of Social Democrats. But we have tabled two amendments, which we believe should be supported. More information on the content of these two amendments tabled will be discussed by the Members later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u10	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Regrettably, the results of managing the state's real estate hold the saying of the Great Granny, a bald child. We do not treat state property carefully enough, too little in the light of a good master. Many state properties are not in use and are only a cost to the state. The country still owns around 600,000 properties totalling 5.5 billion euros. Unfortunately, individual operators still do not pay sufficient attention to the final legal and actual regulation of real estate and to their optimal economic efficiency. We have been witnessing too often to unmaintained buildings owned by the state, and for years, we have been meeting too often in empty dwellings, unreasonable and non-economic positions of state authorities in a particular local environment, and industrial and craft zones alone. The Law on the Real Property of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities does not solve all these problems, but it does bring some solutions that will allow operators and local communities to manage real estate more efficiently and easily. For example, local communities will have the option of selling land or broadcasting land in industrial and commercial zones below the estimated value, which is a necessary instrument if the local community wants to respond to the needs and market situation. It is also welcome to simplify the procedure for the free transfer of immovable property between the country and local communities and vice versa. It is known that these procedures have taken too long and have unnecessarily burdened both the State and the local community. One of the reasons for the novel is the repeal of the Law on the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transfer of the powers of real estate management under this Act. In the Civil Gazette, we are advocates of centralised business provision for the needs of state authorities, as this allows us to carry out all the tasks of the individual national authority or of several bodies in the surrounding locations, thereby achieving greater efficiency of work, better communication, cost reduction, easier business for users. And in this direction it is also necessary to act in the future. The MEPs and members of the National Gazette will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Jasmina Opec on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u12	Good day to you all! The proposed amendment to the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities is a result of several factors that adapt the State to the current rather acute economic situation in the area of real estate as well. The proposed law follows the decision of the Government of February, which stopped all activities relating to the establishment of a public real estate fund aimed at centralising state immovable property. The amendment also removes the plans for the rental of immovable property of the State and the municipalities and provides for the possibility of concluding legal transactions, handling movable property outside existing plans, making it easier for managers of such assets to adapt to market conditions. We do not have any restraints in the Slovenian People's Party's Group regarding support for the proposed law. We estimate that the solutions proposed go in the right direction, as the real estate of both the state and the municipalities adapts to the current situation. In addition, in order to improve economic activity in industrial and commercial zones, it is envisaged that the sale or surrender of the assets of the municipalities will be subject to the estimated value as the choice of the most favourable investor will take into account social, economic and, above all, development criteria in addition to the price. This measure is part of a programme of measures to promote the economy, package number 2, which responds to the situation recorded by municipalities, particularly those more distant from the centre of Slovenia. In the areas of these municipalities, they are self-sustaining regulated industrial and craft zones, which also because of the economic conditions in which we are located cannot fill their space with investors who would open new jobs and municipalities and their inhabitants to further develop. This amendment would allow municipalities to attract investors more effectively in accordance with their development programmes and thereby promote economic activity and consequently reduce unemployment in their area. For all these reasons, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the Real Property Act of the State and the self-government local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u14	Have a good day to all present! I especially welcome the Secretary of State and everyone else. We have before us a proposal for a law whereby the Government stops all activities relating to the establishment of a public real estate fund and its current managers will continue to manage the property of the State. The proposed amendment also implements part of the programme of measures to promote the economy adopted on 31 May this year. The novelty regulates the possibility of selling land owned by local communities under the estimated value for the purpose of promoting and developing industrial and commercial zones. For the same purposes, the possibility of giving land owned by local communities is also regulated under the estimated value. This specifies the conditions for such sale or transfer, the procedure and the mechanism to control the implementation of the basic purpose of the proposed institutes. The proposal also allows for the smooth transfer of immovable property between the country and local communities in the form of a free transfer of ownership rights, assuming that such a conclusion is already in the public interest between the two. Concerns were expressed at the parent’s working body’s meeting that this mode of transmission could allow abuse. The latter is also recalled by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. For the determination represents the potential for additional funding of certain privileged municipalities and for further sale either to legal or to natural persons. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we expect today's debate to respond to these concerns. Further caution is also drawn to the part of the abolition of control mechanisms which are prescribed for the free transfer of state and local property to other public law persons, since the proposer gives the latter a justification in order to ensure that these procedures are carried out as quickly as possible and without hindrance. With regard to the urgent procedure, however, I would say that in the DeSUS Group, we have adopted an explanation from the Government, which justifies this urgent procedure by implementing measures to promote economic development, and that is why we will support the law in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of the State! In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the amendment to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. The current legal regime of central government with the state's real estate through a public real estate fund, which has not actually fully recovered, was not a real concept, in our opinion. To effectively manage real property, we need to know the specific local environment, the needs and possibilities of such an environment. Thus, the dispersion of state property management is a more appropriate and economical principle. Many properties, especially facilities that enjoy the protection of cultural monuments, are self-inflicted because of lack of means to maintain them and restore them and are exposed to decay. However, for certain individual such facilities, which have been restored and trained for use, the State as an operator does not have an adequate vision of their use and management. Especially in times of economic crisis, when every new job is important, we see in the free transfer of the management of this property to the local community a great opportunity to launch some development programmes, particularly in tourism. This measure represents a major step towards sound management of state assets, of course in the event of legal transactions involving free transfers of immovable property from the country to the local community. The second measure brought by this novel, which will constitute an incentive for economic development, is the possibility of selling or renting real estate to self-government local communities in crafts zones below their estimated value. In this way, local communities will encourage the recovery of the small economy, which has been the main driver of economic incentives in these times of crisis. Furthermore, the amendment repeals mandatory plans for the rental of immovable property. Managers of this property will thus be able to move forward and adapt more quickly to changes in the rental market, particularly in business premises. Along with other laws, we believe that this amendment will also help to raise economic activity, so Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. President, Secretary of State! Allow me to present the position of Positive Slovenia on the real estate law of the State and the self-government local communities. In our client, we are aware that the development of local communities is very important. So we can say that the novel has a good purpose because it wants to create conditions for faster, simpler economic development in local communities. It is in spatial planning and management that municipalities can do the most to ensure the best possible conditions for the stay and work of citizens and citizens. In terms of economic development, the proposed measure allows legal transactions to be carried out also for immovable property not included in the current real estate management plan, but not more than 20% of the total value, which is also good and acceptable for us. It is also a good provision which provides for the disposal and transfer of immovable property under the estimated value for the development of business activities, which must be in accordance with the development programmes of the municipality. However, from the point of view of public interest protection, Article 10 of the novel is certainly inaccurate. The reason for this is that we can look for a way to accept the novel. This is an emergency procedure where the professional public was once again excluded from treatment. At this point, we cannot agree with the proposaler in Positive Slovenia. If we already have the same goals, the way to the goal is certainly different. Exclusion of the professional public in the preparation of such an important law for the reason that it is in a hurry to adopt measures that are important for the development of the economy gives the law a very poor journey. We therefore believe that the Government has made a mistake when it has proposed that this law be adopted in an urgent manner and that public debate is thus prevented. In the Commission’s view, this is to prevent corruption of 21. 9. 2012 leads to the adoption of unimaginable legal changes that pose not only corruption risks but the risk of incorrigible consequences for the country. In Positive Slovenia, we have already warned on the working body that the law in terms of protection of public interest is problematic and that the solutions to Article 10 pose a high risk of corruption. Why? The current law provides that the State may transfer the immovable property to the municipality free of charge if the public interest is expressed and provided that the alienation and burden of the transferred property is prohibited for at least five years. This means that the State has by law prevented further speculative resale and land surrender to natural or legal persons transferred to the municipalities. However, the transferred land could still be leased to different entities for different activities and also for economic development. The amendment removes the identification of the public interest, as well as the prohibition of the disposal and loading of the immovable property for at least five years free of charge, which means that the municipality may, without looking and following the public interest, sell it immediately or give it to legal or natural persons. Furthermore, without clear criteria on the basis of which State property may be transferred to the municipality free of charge, the principle of equal treatment of the parties may be violated. Unforeseen possibility of additional funding for certain privileged municipalities shall be introduced. The worst part is that, due to the lack of criteria and insurance against the transfer of these properties, there could be rapid, further sale and resale of these properties, which is certainly not in the public interest. Finally, our findings and the Commission's finding to prevent corruption have been confirmed by the Secretary of State himself on the labour market when he said such cases could occur. In Positive Slovenia we have therefore prepared an amendment which still allows the free transfer of land from the country to the municipality, but provided that the public interest is expressed and those transferred land must not be alienated earlier than within five years. As you have already found, it is a matter of maintaining a valid article and thus allowing the coalition to elegance, with the support of this amendment, that the National Assembly, by a majority of votes, has given rise to high corruption risks. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that the fast-track law has the anomalies to be removed, and we propose two amendments, the adoption of which is conditional upon the adoption and approval of this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss it? He does. Please sign up. Check-in is on. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u20	Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My personal conclusion is that the National Assembly should avoid all provisions contained in laws that are either oriented or have doubts about corruption. Therefore, there is reason for doubt and doubt that such and other acts, including reselling, may occur in practice, and I think it would be good for our amendment to Article 10 to be supported, because here we only want to allow for a normal transfer for the normal needs of local communities where there is not to be a variety of reselling. We know that there is a lot of work to be done, and this must be avoided. Why should Article 10 delete the provision that land or property transferred from the country to the local community should not be sold or resold within a period of five years? I think this clause is very much in place, and it's only right to let it go. Therefore, our proposal is also to preserve the existing situation as regards paragraphs 10 and 24 of the existing law in order to prevent possible skips. Otherwise, I myself advocate that the state is a poor manager of its assets, the local communities would be much better at managing their assets. Therefore, it might be good to consider in the perspective that the land now in the Fund for Agricultural Lands is transferred to local communities, thus allowing the municipalities to operate normally in their territory. If anyone, it is in the interest of the local community to develop properly, so because of various bureaucratic obstacles and procedures, we have prevented some of the municipalities from developing such crafts activities within their area, especially where they are more accelerated towards the development of tourism. This is, in fact, now disabled, which is a major obstacle in particular. The agricultural land fund should manage land and, in practice, the Agricultural Land Fund is also a reseller or renting agricultural land after a variety of connections and acquaintances, and thus actually what is happening on the ground is happening. I have many cases in practice, I was a member of the Piran Congregation, and I know what was going on in the real estate area. There's always a chance there'll be any corruption. That is why I call on my colleagues and colleagues to be aware of your responsibility. And it is not right for the National Assembly to accept and confirm and allow for any corruption. And there's a suspicion here. Finally, we also have the Commission's extensive anti-corruption material. I therefore urge you not to ignore this well-intentioned warning, because, as such, the law is in place and the proposal for a new law in the second part, except in Article 14, where we have also proposed something to change, because we are now talking about Article 10, I would not now discuss the 14th, but my colleagues will already give their opinion. We will support the law if you support the proposed amendments of the SD Group and Positive Slovenia. I think we're on the right track then, but if we don't, the vote will have to be a little different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I warmly welcome the Secretary of State and the representatives of the Ministry. Dear Members and Members! Personally, I am always of the opinion that the novelist or any other law comes from honest purposes, in particular with a view to the common good. Also, this novelty, which is ahead of us, is crucial in order to transfer specific properties, which are falling and see for themselves, all of us, to the local community somewhere as well, to the management and application of public law, that is to say, to local communities and possibly then to the public-private partnership through rental contracts or whatever. And here I see progress and here I see an incentive for the local economy, and above all this novelty regulates the possibility of selling land in industrial and commercial zones below the estimated value. The Novelo regulates the possibility of selling land, as I mentioned, not only real estate as such, but also land owned by local self-government communities under the estimated value for the purpose of promoting industrial and commercial zones, under the conditions and procedures laid down by the novelty for the conclusion of such legal transactions, which I find to be extremely important. So the conditions and procedures are precisely defined, even in the situation where we see local businesses and craftsmanship failing, and with the proposed novelty, the opportunity is given to just small, micro, medium-sized enterprises and independent entrepreneurs in the local field to promote the economy. For the same purposes, the amendment also regulates the possibility of leasing land owned by self-governanced local communities under the estimated value and also specifies the conditions for such sale and exchange, which is crucial. The procedure and the mechanism are also precisely defined, the control of the implementation of the basic purpose of the proposed institutes is also specified and defined, meaning that the control mechanism is established. This novelty also follows the objectives of ensuring a permanent legal basis for state real estate managers to prepare real estate management plans and thus to manage real estate economically, which I think is very important. I also think it is very important that the amendment of the law abolishes the preparation of real estate rental plans and that real estate managers will only be able to prepare a real estate plan and a real estate management plan, not a real estate lease plan. We have before us the autumn time when the municipalities and municipalities are preparing budgets for the next two years, and also as an annex to these budgets they need to draw up a real estate management plan. Therefore, it seems to me that this procedure must be carried out in advance in order for the municipalities to be informed. One of the objectives is not least to simplify the procedures for free real estate transfers between the country and the local community. With regard to the Commission's opinion on the prevention of corruption under Article 10 of the amendment to the law that the proposed provision would create corruption risks related to free transfers and possible further disposals of property, however, I do not think that there are any concerns on the ground, but I also consider that there is a flat-rate assessment of the work of the municipal and municipal councils and a comparison with a specific municipality which has been the subject of speculative sales and corruption at this time. Many of us are also congregational saints, and we know exactly how procedures are conducted at meetings of congregational councils. Let me explain that each transfer is precisely defined, once again, the procedure and the control mechanism, the conditions for such sale and exchange are laid down, the unintended use is a matter of commission procedure and the subject of public prosecution, and last but not least, the municipalities are under the supervision of the Court of Auditors and the budgetary inspection at the Ministry of Finance. The control mechanisms are provided in my opinion. I personally believe that the proposed novel is okay, that it is ready within the right time frame and that it is in the right place at the right time, so I support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Based on the practice of the local community as a former mayor, I can say that the novel is a good thing, that it is well placed to distribute state property to those who need it, who will be able to fertilize it and use it to resolve vital issues at the level of the local community. Nationalally, local property is our national property and our national wealth, so it certainly needs to be treated very leniently. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we have given our opinion on the novel, and in fact, there has been no undue opposition, except for the 10th and 14th articles to which we are proposing an amendment, with which we are conditional on voting for the amendment. The amendment to Article 10 seems very important to us, because it is essential in nature. See, Article 10 deletes or cancels all that Article 24 stipulated in the law in force. And that's the whole mechanism that has some kind of control, control over what's going to happen with this property transferred to the local community. We also fully agree with the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which notes that this is not a matter of public interest, but of its cancellation, and that there are still corrupt risks. As a former mayor, I can say that something like this can happen. I do not say this about my congregation or the majority of the congregations, because I think they are fair, but it is so that if you get something very cheap, and also determined that within five years it can be estranged, there are probably opportunities, especially when the local communities are in great financial difficulties, that it will be sold out. And once it is resold, the retrograde or return process is no longer possible to establish. Once it's sold off and given for some money, it's hard to get it back. It is true, however, that local communities will already be able to use this for their development and the provision of good living conditions and economic growth. However, Article 10 should maintain all these provisions, all this mechanism, so that at least there is control here, so that corruption does not occur, even in the way I said, because the budget will show a minus in revenue, but it can very quickly be obtained from the country by some property, it can be sold out in a few months and the budget will be filled. I think that this is wrong and that the amendment tabled by the Positive Slovenia Group is entirely in place. Finally, this is also in the agreement or interest of the anti-corruption commission, which also notes that the exclusion of these mechanisms may be very problematic as corruption could continue to occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go. I'm sorry I didn't notice you in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me to ask you a procedural question, perhaps first of all: was the anti-corruption commission invited to today's meeting? There was no anti-corruption commission on the home work body. Furthermore, my procedural question concerns the Government or the Minister, who today, unfortunately, is not, but I hope to receive a concrete answer from the Secretary of State. The Anti-Corruption Commission has delivered a broad opinion. At two points, he sees the controversy of government action. Firstly, the Anti-Corruption Commission states that it is contrary to Slovenian law to enact such a law under an emergency procedure. I don't know if you want me to read in detail what the anti-corruption commission wrote down. Yes, you do. "The reasons given to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State are not confirmed by the proposed amendments to the law, as assessed by the Commission." This is your explanation why the law should be adopted by emergency procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u27	What's your procedural proposal? Because what you're saying could be said if you applied in time and you had a chance. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u28	Allow the president, Mr Secretary of State has asked me to read. My procedural proposal is to get the Minister's position on the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u29	This is what you will get when you make your statement and you will get a chance to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u30	If you allow me, my procedural proposal at this time is that the Ministry gives a very clear position on the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which will also be our basis for the continuation of the debate. I will continue to apply for the debate on the amendment to Article 10, which we have proposed in Positive Slovenia. I propose procedurally if you want, Mr State Secretary, if you do not know the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, to copy and submit it to the table and take five, ten minutes to read it. The Commission's view on preventing corruption clearly suggests that it is necessary to adopt such legislation in accordance with an emergency procedure contrary to the legislation in force in Slovenia. Secondly, certain safeguards should be incorporated into the law to prevent the possibility of systemic corruption and, last but not least, the possibility of imposing sanctions. I ask the Secretary of State, on a procedural basis, to give an opinion on whether or not he intends to take account of the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission and why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. You've made good use of the rules of procedure. Next time, sign up for the word. Let's move on. The Secretary of State may make a statement at any time within the time available. It's Mrs. Brunskole's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I'd just like to get attached to a colleague of mine. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who really asked a question that I'm interested in. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission took the view that it would be appropriate and necessary for the proposal to be retained and put into public debate and to prepare substantive justifications for individual solutions, in particular in order to clearly identify who was responsible, the extent of this responsibility and the procedures imposed by it by the possibility of imposing sanctions. It is certainly not on our part, by Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia, to oppose any kind of opposition, but it is a serious warning related to the violation of the law, or to the great inadequacy of this draft amended law. The fact is also to reinforce the opinion of the anti-corruption commission, today the municipalities are the largest investors and the 10th section of the law to which we have tabled the amendment is certainly good and acceptable from the point of view of the local communities because it allows for easier transfer of state property to the municipalities, since one of the main competences of the municipalities is the implementation of spatial policy or spatial planning and the acquisition of funds from the municipal contribution. The fact is that the free transfer of state property to the municipalities is already possible under the law in force. However, what is extremely important here, and the anti-corruption commission also reminds us that we already have two guards when it comes to public interest, which can also be an economic one, and another, in Article 10, paragraph 2 and 3, 5 years of banning alienation and loading and entering the land book. What we now oppose and warn, and what the Anti-Corruption Commission also warns about, is exactly what a colleague is. Barbara Žginer Tavš warned. Both of these guards are being removed and this is disputed for us as well as for the anti-corruption commission. I have also stressed at the Committee's own meeting, and the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Real Property of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities also, according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, lacks legal clarity and certainty. This is also highlighted. And as an example, for those lands that are already leased by the municipalities, the public interest is not identified. This means that when the congregation receives a property and property free of charge, it means that whatever it receives free of charge, it will always profit from it, even if it sells it below the value. If he sells one square for half a euro, the congregation will certainly have a profit. But since there will be no more guards, there may also be some speculative intentions. I also did not receive a reply from the representative of the Ministry, Mr State Secretary, when I asked him whether he could list some of the larger land owned by the State for which the Ministry was detected or recognised or requested by local communities to transfer these matters to the municipalities. The answer was: the international border crossing of Gederovci or the former border crossing of Gederovci. This goes to the state level for an extremely small matter. Then I learned that this is also the case in Montenegro, behind the zone of Tris Rudnik Kanjiarica in closure, which is certainly a significantly larger project. I read it myself, and I also asked, on March 22nd, the government had the adoption of the state space plan for the Phoenix Zone in Posavje. It's probably one of the big projects with lots of land, as someone said before, with objects that are now standing. I would like to refer here to the anti-corruption commission and to their response. In the light of the new Article 10 dictatorship, in conjunction with the State Secretary's remarks, it will be possible not only to violate the principle of equal treatment of parties, but also to introduce a legally unforeseeable possibility of additional funding for certain privileged municipalities. The worst part is that the lack of control mechanisms and insurance against the transfer of these properties could lead to a faster sale of these properties, which is certainly not in the public interest. We do not object to the municipality getting free of charge, thus resold at the price of a company, and this company really builds a facility and employs 20, 50, 100 people. But our fear is that when you delete these guards, and this is pointed out by the anti-corruption commission and also by the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly, someone will get for a small amount of money and sell for a substantial amount of money. And this is actually going to be for speculative purposes. It would be very good for the Ministry to listen to the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption and to take a step back. In the construction law, we found out when I asked the Infrastructure Committee myself whether it was possible to build buildings along the highway. Now that I'm driving from Ljubljana to New Town in the area of the Mirna kiln, that's the way it is. We allow certain things just a little bit at home. If it's speculative purposes in the event of this change of law, it's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Procedurally, but please state a procedural proposal first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's try it again. I also have before me the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I propose that this point be terminated in accordance with Article 73 at the moment until we have received the opinion of the Ministry of State. I hope that you too are aware that the procedure is something that absolutely needs to be respected. And that the procedure should at least be such that the opinion of an independent institution, such as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, is respected. The Anti-Corruption Commission has made very clear recommendations that Article 10 in the proposed solution is not good because it allows for corruption, the incorporation of systemic corruption into the law itself. And a second time. It suggests that the law is even taken out of consideration because the procedure for the adoption of the law is not in accordance with the Slovenian legal order, because it did not allow for a wider public debate with a wide public interest. I ask the President to take my procedural proposal into account until we have an official position of the Ministry, whether it will take into account the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, which should be a holy one. Last but not least, the Ministry or Government is the body that has to comply with the rules in the country. To respect, it is said, to take into account my procedural proposal, I would like to receive a reply from the Government or the departmental ministry whether it will take into account the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption or not and why they will not take this opinion into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Government or the Ministry will be delivered by the Secretary of State, Mr Helmut Hartman, as soon as he makes his statement. Now I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm opening a list to discuss, and I'm asking you to sign in. Mr. Jože the Great, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! When reading this bill, I am asked how the public interest in the implementation of this law will be protected, on behalf of the public interest, mainly by land of different types, such as buildings, agriculture or forests. We know that the country has trusted in the management of agricultural land in the past to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. In the past, on specific occasions, this has proved to be a very bad master. In addition to poor governance, I am also thinking of not planning to clean up land and forest records with a real state of nature. Large amounts of land are not free burdens either, and the protection of current users is also questionable. In the past, the State has also demanded free transfer of land to certain state-owned enterprises, irrespective of the state or category of land in nature, and has thereby literally decommissioned them. The proposed law will allow for the free transfer of the same land to local communities, damage to the property of the designated companies, thus further complicating their applications for land return. Therefore, in order to protect public interest, it would be necessary to first identify the actual use and situation of nature and then transfer the immovable property to the new owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much, again. Now it really seems like we're blowing the Members' horn. On the other hand, there is a ministry representative who is silent. Previously, Presidents, you said I was in violation of the rules of procedure. You, too, had the opportunity to put my procedural proposal to the vote on a second procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure. I say the subject is too important. Today we face the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopts law, well, we accept it from Members and Members, but we know how democratic adoption takes place in Parliament. As the government says, that's the decision of the government coalition. In short, we are adopting a law for which the Commission is to prevent corruption, an independent body that is also trying to make a better impression in the international public on our country, which I believe you know, has an indication that corruption is a major problem. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission has given, once again, a very clear position: the law should not be adopted by means of an urgent procedure, we have bypassed the public debate, and the professional and civil public should be involved in this public debate because it is such sectoral legislation. Secondly, honourable Members and Members, and in particular distinguished government representatives, in view of the importance and urgency, I quote further the position of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which says that criminal and civil sanctions should be included in the law for both responsible persons and for illicit transactions, the Commission proposes that the law be rejected and the procedure repeated by the inclusion of provisions on criminal and civil sanctions in the law, or that the law should be reopened to include the proposed regulation. The Commission also points out that even though you have drafted an amendment on the proposal of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has pointed out this dispute in Article 10, your amendment does not follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the proposed solution is still controversial. I hope and wish, in some part, we are trying to resolve this dispute in the Group of Positive Slovenia with the proposed amendment, so that at least until our amendment you will be positively defined. Otherwise, I'll say, yes, the law is absolutely welcome for the local community. But the law does not adequately include a protection that would prevent people with names and surnames from entering cheap land or property, because it would no longer be a public benefit, but would be damage to state or local property. And there are no such safeguards in the existing bill. These were already our main and key findings on the parental committee. So far, we have not received any responses from the Ministry. I'm really asking you because this is an extremely important subject. A colleague of Brunskole had previously given several examples of other laws that had been enacted in a similar way and which bear the names and surnames behind them. We shouldn't have afforded it. The first to protect its credibility and to defend its legality in this country is the Government. How can the government then expect citizens and citizens to respect the laws adopted in the country? I ask once again for specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Hartman, Secretary of State, wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Besides, I wanted to come forward at the end of the debate, but if you want me to, I can comment at this stage. First of all, with regard to the content of the recommendation sent by the Anti-Corruption Commission, the date of the recommendation, if I am not mistaken, is 21. 9, that means a few days ago. It is true that in the very process we are told that the law was passed quickly, although I believe they intended to say that following an urgent procedure. The law itself has indeed been adopted in the framework of the urgent procedure, but it must be said first that the content of the law has been under consideration since May. This means that if we were to watch the clock for how long the law was available for any involvement of other actors, we believe that there was still enough time here. In addition, let me say that the law was fully in line with the Community of Municipalities, which are always present at the stage of the adoption of such legislation. And the Community of the Communities had no comments on the content of the law. As far as Article 10 is concerned, in a context where the Anti-Corruption Commission somehow allows the possibility of abuse of public interest and thus lays the groundwork for potential corruption, let me say for the first time that the legislator has somehow focused on the community or local communities working for a positive purpose. And let me also say what I said on the committee and what you're writing about in your amendment, even though I think that the municipalities would very rarely decide on this option, even though it would have been after the sale of this immovable property forward, and it would have been earlier than in five years, this purchase goes into the budget of the municipalities, which means that the purchases obtained from this immovable property would have been transferred to the public sphere. And here I think there is no doubt that this is about transferring the purchase to the municipal level, not to a private level. However, if there is a spillover from a public to a private level, then we have an institution in the country that needs to react. Let me also say that in the context of the levers themselves held by law enforcement authorities and also by the municipalities on the one hand when adopting the budget or financial transactions under the supervision of the Court of Auditors and the budgetary inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance. Thus, there is no doubt here that the funds, even if it were to go from your belief to a malicious sale in a short period of time, are not here merely to spill this public property into the hands of the private. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! Today, I think we are at an extremely interesting moment, as well as a period or fate, to see whether the National Assembly will serve the current government, whatever. It's an extremely important question. Article 10 opened this and we are discussing this right about Article 10. There is no doubt that, in some ways, the sale of property and the promotion of investments and the economy are appropriate moves and that, as someone said today, the direction is the right one. But I'm sorry, it's also true that when we think of direction, we think exactly the azimuth or the direction that we're going to get to that goal. Of course, there is a opposite direction for me and a course that takes almost 180 degrees. Any path here can lead to a goal, but there can be other ones, and in between there can be obstacles. And we want to stop these obstacles. That's why I'd like to ask you two. The urgency procedure has ruled out regular procedures and everything we need to do and this urgent procedure is indicated through Article 10 that this urgent procedure does not provide everything we need to do in order to respond to questions raised by the Court of Auditors. I also propose that, Madam Vice-President, to answer the question of what the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption means to us, what Parliament's leadership will do, forgive what Parliament will do, this is extremely important to us. Too often, we adopt positions, laws, decisions, even though the Legislative and Legal Service has a opposing opinion or has not given the right opinion. It happens too often! And my last question, Mr Vice President, is exactly that. The Slovenian Government adopted a decision there after February 20th and stopped the procedures for the implementation of the real estate management agency. Who gave the Slovenian government this right? This is the law we passed. The National Assembly has adopted this law, ladies and gentlemen. And if we want, this law can only be changed by the National Assembly. Maybe tomorrow, maybe in a week. And something needs to be done in this area. But, ladies and gentlemen, not so much as someone called the Slovenian government, with the decision of the Slovenian government, stopped the decision of the highest state authority in the country. That's unacceptable. We, ladies and gentlemen, must not allow this, under any circumstances. Otherwise, we don't need a national council. Then we'll have enough government to rule, some more laws to pass, and we'll really be here just to meet here and there and say something. That is why, Mr President, I think a few questions need to be answered. Above all, the responsibility of the Slovenian government. Who gave the Slovenian Government the right to adopt a decision not to implement the law adopted by the legislative body? I cannot agree to this and strongly protest and demand an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u44	President, thank you for your word. Welcome to the Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Already on the Committee on Public Administration, Local Self-Government and Justice, I have pointed out that I am extremely disturbed by Members and Members when we are thinking in a negative way and when we are looking for solutions in particular the negative connotation and the possibility of using the possibility of someone thinking in a way that they will acquire some property in their own account. I must say for myself that I cannot support this amendment to Article 10 proposed by the Positive Slovenia. However, I am of course in favour of the proposed solution to the changes and additions to the Real Property Act of the State and the local communities, as these amendments also follow the principles of the basic law, namely the principle of cost-effectiveness, the principle of the management of real property, the principle of remuneration, the principle of equal treatment, the principle of transparency and the principle of the public, and of course these principles are being extended as they give new content and facilitate the transfer of property within the sector, which is said between the state and the local communities. As I have already said in the introduction, I always pursue the goal of thinking positively and not following some of the crimes, I would also refer to this controversial opinion of the anti-corruption commission today. I must say that I have great respect for the anti-corruption commission, because I think that its establishment and its mission are the right thing to do when a lot of relations are settled in the country. Of course, on the other hand, when you say how to respect laws, I also wonder on what basis this opinion was based on. You all know that the anti-corruption commission is bound by the integrity law to report to the National Assembly once a year, but we have not received reports from the National Assembly until today by the anti-corruption commission. By law, however, this report should reach the National Assembly by the end of June. You know that the Mandate-Election Commission has already wanted to address this report, and unfortunately this has not been possible. Certain conclusions have also been adopted and therefore I cannot follow the opinion of the anti-corruption commission. Even in the part where it says that, on the basis of applications addressed both by the Commission and the Court of Auditors' audit, and that it is also demonstrated by the plans for the integrity of municipalities and that public servants who directly perform tasks or exercise powers in the field of the management of real property in municipalities themselves identify a number of factors of corruption risk in their work. I believe that this may be the case, but when I follow what they say below, that, for example, the annual plan to acquire and dispose of the actual property of the congregation is contrary to the interests of the congregation, I do not know where the municipalities or individual public servants can expose this, because I am also a city councillor in the city council of the Municipality of Celje and I know exactly that as a city council, I am aware of all the documents and of all the procedures for dealing with the actual property of the congregation and that the city council is also pursuing the public interest with all its responsibility. Further, we can see that the congregation does not have instructions that employees are familiar with changes in property, but that the congregation does not have instructions on how to handle and make their property and that the congregation does not have a plan to regulate its property. I do not think that this is the case and that most municipalities are really working in the public interest and that we are giving the municipalities the opportunity to provide certain real estates that will either be sold or leased in accordance with economic development strategies and the opening up of new jobs in individual municipalities. The municipalities often talk to me as a Member and rather as a City Councilwoman point out that the municipalities as such do not have levers so that in this area, the real thing in the area of economic development can be done in a positive way, and thus the opening up of new jobs. What we are going to discuss next is a complement, and the amendment tabled by the coalition, and I am particularly committed to reaffirming this law. We all know that it is very important to accelerate the development of the activities of domestic and artificial crafts and also cultural activities, and in this I see also the opportunity to open the city's cores, city centres in those large municipalities where we know that virtually the city's cores are extinct, as in the large municipalities. I must say, I will be happy to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I take it you still want to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u46	Good day to you all! Of course, let me start by saying that it will work optimistically and in particular positive that in Positive Slovenia we are happy that the Government has decided to make some changes in this area. In Positive Slovenia we are also prepared to accept these changes. But, you know, every case is always "but" if you have something to say. Now I'm going to go very systematically in order, because I see that just one thing that government representatives don't understand or don't want to understand. What we all got from the Anti-Corruption Commission is one thing that really disturbed us all. And I'll read it to you because you've been faithfully avoiding it. "The Commission was not given the opportunity to cooperate in inter-sectoral coordination or the possibility of setting legislative proposals in accordance with the fifteenth indent of Article 12 and to examine them in order to harmonise them with the rules governing the prevention of corruption and the prevention and elimination of conflicts of interest" and so on. I know you know that very well. And I also somehow expected that when you decided to speak as a representative of the Government in this case and identify yourself with the question that my colleague with a procedural decision wanted to have an answer, you replied that the Government had no opinion. Of course you didn't say that, but you didn't answer it directly. We still have no answer as to whether the Government has an opinion on what the Commission has proposed or warned under number 1. Now, if we're going to the amendment, because in the end I'm going to propose a procedural decision again, let me explain the following. See, of course, the purpose of this law is to encourage local communities to be able to manage real estate effectively in a single area, which is the development of local communities. You have decided to go and change the law on real property, but you have not committed the original sin that was committed in the past. If we were to solve this problem or touch it and try to solve what the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia are, all three have already said it out loud, and that is, for God's sake, let the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests be abolished and this property transferred back to the local community. There you have an arsenal of land that this fund actually sells, not cares about them. And then all the local communities would get some land, what you actually want to bring through the other door now, in order to actually pass on what is and what is not in the public interest. That is true, the law itself speaks, so it is Article 10's proposal to return to what needs to be justified and to add a fuse to determine whether it is in the public interest or not. The fact that someone acts as a public organisation is said in public terms is in itself clear, and we do not need to explain to anyone that they are a state and a local community. In practice, however, this has not proved to be the case. This country has, from every time, its own vat, what is public and what is good and what is not. I'll give you a case. We have dealt with a problem that I do not see in this law today, this is a building right. The country could easily transport the land, but the building's justice has not been touched. Building rights will continue to be charged and administered. I'll give you an example. The local community decides to build a bridge, finds out that everything that's around the water is also state-owned, we all know that, and is an automatic interlocutor of the state. And since this bridge cannot bring from one hill to another over a barrier, it has to get somewhere in between, because there is too much bridge, it also touches the pillar that will support this bridge. And this pillar will or will not be hit by the state land. And then the local community asks the country, "Can you transport this land?" "No, we're not going to take it because we're going to need this land because it's a water environment, there's no talk, and we're going to do building justice." The building right under the law, however, makes it very clear that a dose should be made, and this dose means some kind of compensation. And this government, not this particular one, I say to the government, every time, does this stupid thing to make it possible to give up building rights for 45 years, but after 45 years it is necessary to return to its original state. You know what that means, don't you? It takes 45 years to tear down the bridge. That means that. And that's not what this government did when it was actually supposed to solve such things. And I would also like to know if we say that this amendment of Article 10 will not be adopted and this transfer will be made. Whether these building rights will now be regulated by saying, okay, we interrupt the building rights, we transfer the land to the local community, because it is more or less clear that there is a bridge, etc.? Do you know how many of these there are? It's huge. Of course, there is another problem that the local community is called to do on many occasions, giving some to the country, including the land, for reasons of public interest. There was something about this in the Municipality of Ljubljana. And the country that wanted to have it, and when we did it and we did it, the country found at some point that it hadn't matured the time, the conditions for this land to be needed have not yet been created. And you know what she did? This same land, which the local community has given to the state, has leased back to the local community, and it charges. This is what's happening now. It's a reality. Therefore, the guardians must be placed in this law of public interest. In this case, it would be wise and logical for the state to find out that, because we will not need this land for five years, we will give it back free of charge in the use of the local community to enjoy what we need when we need it and we will get it back. I am only afraid of this, and the government should know what the Commission has pointed out to prevent corruption, that certain things need to be prevented and only the guards should be put in. The law isn't bad, far from it! But you have to give the guards so that they don't have a secretary at the Ministry every time who manages a certain property, his vat. I give an example, I am very happy and heartily satisfied if the phoenics grow all over Slovenia, Nova Gorica, Krško, Celje, Maribor, what do I know where else. I support it all. But I'm afraid the phoenix will only grow in certain places. I have a very serious problem here where these vats are, what's in the public interest and what's not. The fact that the fuse is in itself, that even if it sells this land earlier than in five years, that money will be in the budget and that it is also the income of the local community, means that I see no reason why the country has not already sold it. In fact, there is one serious problem that the state does not really know how to deal with it. I say so, the mayor's work and the work of the municipal and municipal councils is subtly and subtly. Not in a negative way. But all that sticks to the earth and all that's underground, and that's their basic, parent work in the local community, with all the attributes of the Local Community Act, which is what the local community does. And for God's sake, in all the smart countries, they've long known that the country doesn't deal with local stories. That's why I have two in front of me. Please give it as soon as possible, I really appeal to you, because you will probably be dealing with this matter, abolish the Fund of Agricultural Lands, this is the primary task of this government, I hope, because this will really start the economy and release a huge amount of land that will be able to be managed in the framework of their accepted spatial acts and through all established procedures, but not that this fund sells agricultural land. That's what this fund is doing today. And the other thing that seems important to me is that we hand over this fuse. However, this fuse will be very clear and will be able to identify itself if we take one step. This is to start respecting the institutions set up by law, and this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which means, in other words, that I am now addressing you, President, that you respect, in the context of the Rules of Procedure, that we have established two, for the first time, that the Government does not have an opinion on the draft recommendation or the opinion given by the Commission, that is what we have all heard today, and that, in accordance with Article 73, third paragraph, if the Council decides that it is necessary to obtain an opinion from working bodies, the Rule of Law or the Government, that the President shall end the consideration of the item of the agenda. And because we have found this out today, you put this procedural proposal to the vote. At least that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I cannot put this proposal to the vote. But he is with us a representative of the government, and I give him my word. Mr. Hartman, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Well, let's just keep it clear that there's not gonna be too much for the end, I hope it doesn't run out of time. I would like to tie up the cooperation of the anti-corruption commission and say that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption accurately states when, in Article 12, the anti-corruption commission has the opportunity to participate in the drafting of laws. That means from the very beginning. As we know, the law has been filed in May, if I am not mistaken, we received the opinion of the Commission 19. 9. However, it does not excuse the fact that certain facts that the Commission has written here have been taken into account or are worth considering in the future. With regard to your comment, let me say that the Anti-Corruption Commission itself in Part B, where it is referring to the procedure, considers that it is very late to be involved in the process itself, which is why it is not possible to blame the Government here for not cooperating sufficiently with the Anti-Corruption Commission in the preparation of the same law. As I said in the previous intervention, the Government has cooperated with the Community of Municipalities in this process from the very beginning, where there have been no comments on the law itself. The fact is, however, that the concerns raised by the Anti-Corruption Commission under this Article, which I have also explained in the previous intervention. This was also the answer to the opinion given by the legislative service. Here I think that, in the context of the public interest in which both the State and the municipality must operate, this is not a disputed transfer. But the fact is, there are anomalies in every system. The problem is that legislation itself focuses too much on these institutions, or it doubles control itself into several laws. The opinion of the anti-corruption commission also states that certain control mechanisms should be written in the law itself. Such control mechanisms in our legal system already exist. At the first level, as far as the municipality and the budget are concerned, we have the Court of Auditors here, we have a commission or an inspectorate at the Ministry of Finance. However, when it comes to corruption, on the one hand, we have the Commission to prevent corruption and other law enforcement, from the police, from the prosecution and so on. However, if we now write in every law procedures how all these institutions should work within a specific case, this will only create confusion. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. Look, we can talk from here to here forever about what you wanted to say and what you didn't say, but the fact is that the government has not accepted the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption. What is important to me is that we must first respect the agreements and what we have within this national assembly. You simply want to say that you have spent a lot of time preparing this legislation and that when you thought it was good, let us take the urgent procedure in a few days. And that's it. That's not working. Look, it just can't take it. Therefore, the Presidents, in the National Assembly, we have already adopted seven laws to which this same commission has pointed out that there are risky laws and that they are not adopted, I am not saying that they are bad, but that they are not adopted by emergency procedure. This is essential, which the Commission is essentially pointing out. Because I have said procedurally, the President-in-Office requests on behalf of the Group of Members a break of 20 minutes and at the same time a consultation with the President of the National Assembly. This will enable us to agree on how to proceed. Because, otherwise, I tell you, this is the way it works when you actually want to apply the new attributes of business regulations, but this is simply not going to work. Therefore, the National Assembly will have to do another thing earlier – either change the rules of procedure or introduce new parliamentary practices that you are dragging through the side door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u51	As a rule, a recess shall be taken during or before the vote, so that you still have this option. I propose that we proceed with the debate and then decide on it. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u52	Yes, procedurally. Look, president, now you're trying to use all the maneuvers, but we've just led things to the door, to the end, it's called. The representative of the Government made it clear whether or not he has an answer to say whether the Government has an opinion on this committee or not today. We have tabled twice on a procedural basis, which, of course, you, as chairman, are challenging. Under the rules of procedure, you will not give us the right to vote on this at least. This is not necessarily to be voted on, but let us stick to this national choir Bible. And let's stick to what's proposed. And if you vote that you don't want the government's opinion, then I understand everything. And otherwise, if not, I have asked, on behalf of the Group of Members, a 20-minute recess to consult the President of the National Assembly to see how we will proceed. I'm not gonna wait, I'm asking you nicely, Chairman, until tomorrow, when it's too late. It is now necessary to act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I have the right to decide in this way to take part in your wish and to put to the vote your proposal to obtain the opinion of the Government before further discussion. We decide on this proposal. Next are other procedural proposals. I propose, as I said, that we vote on whether we wait for the government's opinion. That was Mr Jani Möderndorfer's proposal. I put this proposal to the vote. The National Assembly is not concluded. We're re-voting. The vote is under way. The National Assembly is not adjourned, so we continue the meeting at 10.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u54	We are continuing the meeting by the third vote on the procedural proposal to end the item until we have received the Government's opinion on the proposal put forward by colleague Jani Möderndorfer. I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There were 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. We're re-adopting a disability law, as has been said. The Corruption Commission has warned that no criminal and civil sanctions are included in the law. The second thing that really bothers me is that there are no guards involved in the marriage. Look, the country has a double face. When we do projects, we always get a contract from the country that a certain property or property should not be alienated from the company or municipality for five years. This is the same contract and the municipality is deleted. I think that's caused by a lot of suspicions, intransparency and abuse. The law also says that they will choose what can be transferred to the congregation, from case to case. Yes, for God's sake, I have to be on some criteria! The criteria must be confirmed first. That's the normal way in the world. It's like a wild west here. We should overcome those criteria that then enable the congregation to exploit or benefit this property in the public interest better than the state. I can't do this anymore. I can't do this anymore. I do not have the face, what we have once signed in the company to the state, but this is really about the one who should protect legality, transparency, certainty, take into account, as has been said, the anti-corruption commission at least in order to have a public debate, not a rapid procedure, and that certain things that are lacking would be added. This is as if it had already been made for someone to be transferred to the congregation and then sold privately and that someone would take advantage of it. On the other hand, we have so much and so much to say how bad it has been done before, and now we are adopting legislation that makes it possible. And in fact, people who say that the rule of law is making laws forward so that they can use what they can't, they seem to be. What, though, would be wrong if we put in a fuse so that it cannot be sold in the congregation for five years? Then let the congregation return to the land if it cannot do anything within five years. What's so bad about that? I don't see what's wrong with that. I don't know, I imagine it's someone's direction when an army has to take it all the way. It's the porch, it's, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 10? I'm opening the list, and I'm asking you to sign in. Mrs. Patricia Shulin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u57	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Those of you who are asking in this national assembly if we need a national assembly, we need it, as well as we need a debate, but in particular a proper debate. Those of you who are also asking about abuses, possible, this law, ask you whether the previous law that regulates this, which stipulated that only after five years can the property be sold, did not offer the possibility of abuse. We know that every law, even though it has this part that sanctions abuses, makes it possible. I believe, however, that the old law, which, after only five years, allowed the sale to take place and which had a lot of legal provisions, prevented the economy and also hindered the development of tourism. When I mention the castle of Rihemberk or the castle of Brannik in the novogoric congregation, which is owned by the state, it is saddened and is by no means possible with some wise decision and with the intention of transferring it to the congregation, even though the purpose of the congregation is such. And I hope that it will be transferred after the introduction of this law. Those who are afraid of fast sales and potential abuse. Yeah, well, there's a lot of abuse here, too. In fact, the saints of the Municipality of Ljubljana know this well. The land there turned into a wall overnight, and someone made 14 million euros overnight. There's a lot of abuse in our country, I agree. However, if we look at this law, then when we sell these properties we know that it will also be at city council meetings, that is to say at municipal meetings this sale will have to be confirmed because it will have to be included in the budget of the municipality or in the budget of the municipality and also in the meetings of the city council the acquisition of real property, as well as the alienation of real property. We all know that. We also know that it is necessary to evaluate the sworn valuer before doing so. That's what they say. The price of real estate is known. Which means that if any of the councillors and the mayor of the municipality in question suspect an impartial valuation of the property, they can take the initiative to revalue these properties. This fear at this point is inexcusable to me. We also have a set of these supervisory authorities in the municipality itself, which can be involved when there is a reasonable suspicion of abuse in the sale, disposal of property. This, as I have already mentioned, is the congregation council itself, the congregation’s oversight council, the Court of Auditors, and the audit services we have in our country. And, of course, the Commission itself to prevent corruption. So I don't understand why you're really so worried about this possibility of abuse that's already been given by the old law. However, it is old legislation, to block the economy and our aim is to encourage it with a new novelty, to finally breathe out our properties, which are also cultural and have our message Slovenian cultural heritage, and unfortunately also fall due to the harsh provisions of old legislation in this area. However, for the public interest, I think it is taken care of in Article 10 when it is supplemented by Article 24, which states that when such transactions are concluded between entities, the public interest is deemed to be met by the transfer of immovable property itself. I hope that we all understand when the state and the municipality express their intention after acquiring this property, the public interest is expressed. Article 8 of this new novel provides for a method for the sale of immovable property below the estimated value. Here we have specific instructions and provisions that set out the exact criteria that will be decisive for selecting the most favourable bidder. I propose that we adopt this law so that we do not go here with false, double morals and finally release these properties to run as they should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's still a desire to discuss it. Yeah. That's why I'm opening an application for a list of discussers. Check-in is on. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u59	I regret that you did what was necessary. This is that the National Assembly has waived the Government's opinion on the opinion of the Corruption Commission, which is of a kind, atypical and insignificant. That's, you know, it's called, I don't want to know what the government thinks of this opinion. But as far as double morality is concerned, it's amazing. I heard today that we don't really need guards. It's a public interest for you to make a difference between the minister and the mayor. Yeah, well, you've been fighting this all along! This is pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Commission, that there is simply no other decision-makers, forget about the city and municipal council, it is not going as well as you think. All of this will be there and will be decided. But far from that, public interest is not what ministers and mayors change. Public interest is what the city council or the municipal council determines to be public interest and what they somehow prove and justify. However, I have already given reasons in the previous debate, so as not to talk about the dual morality that you are encouraging yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Pišek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The report of the anti-corruption commission was issued three days ago. I wonder what you've been doing for the last four months when the marriage was first introduced or discussed. If we take a closer look, I note that this report or recommendation follows to a large extent the debate of some of the opposition's discussers at the last meeting of the mother's working body. This somehow leads me to think that someone may have produced this report or these recommendations as they should be. However, as for article 10, where you are afraid that there would be insufficient protection or potential for any abuse, I would say that, in practice, I am talking now about some other local communities from which I come; the property of the state has been there for ten years and the state does not know what to do with it. That kind of property is dead capital. And even if it ever happens that it will pass into the congregation and the congregation will immediately find a suitable manager or a suitable tenant or, after all, a buyer, it will certainly be more rational and more productive for the municipal or state budget than it is now when it is just a cost. I don't know where the reservations are to start running this property once. There may also be some arrangements, but I do not know, but in these small municipalities, the mayors, the saints and the municipal councils are especially honest. We're coming out of this. But if someone has bad intentions or maybe they already know something from practice, I'll tell you that we'll never have to stop the law. These are, as the Secretary of State has said, other institutions that must respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u62	Mr Happy Meh, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u63	Once again, Mr President, I repeat the question. By decision of 20 days after the appointment, the Government suspended the implementation of the law adopted by the National Assembly. Who gives her that right? Why did she do that, and what will we do about it? There is no doubt that the law is going in the right direction. I believe it's not 180 degrees, it's narrower, but in the meantime more things have happened that aren't good. Today, we wonder why the anti-corruption commission did so. Because it was an emergency procedure and because it wasn't a normal procedure where everyone working here would do something. And we, Mr President, have continued, instead of stopping the adoption of the emergency procedure, without having received an answer from the Slovenian government to the question of what the anti-corruption commission has done. This is something I don't think the National Assembly can and can't afford. It's not good. The direction we're taking this National Assembly is not a good direction, nor 180 degrees, but it's the wrong direction. Of course, the question now is whether the saints in small congregations are more honest than the saints in the great congregation. I'm protesting. We're all honest, and I believe we're all working for a good purpose. However, we should incorporate into this law the safeguards and criteria by which we will measure how we can sell or dispose of or rent a certain amount of property. And if you think that something better is going to be now than in the management of individual real estate, then I don't think it will be because the real estate managers remain the same as they were before. All the same ministries. The proposals to abolish the Fund for Agricultural Lands were considered. I also argue that it is harmful for us to eliminate all the benefits that we have to pay and not to speak of being honest in one congregation, but not in the other. We work for good in all congregations, and we are honest in all congregations, and I believe that we are also in the National Assembly. But, ladies and gentlemen, the basic question is that someone has usurped power, that someone has taken away what is our right, our right is legislative, is the one that decides. On our behalf, someone, actually, would have no objection to the Slovenian government saying, "We will change, it says, we will not continue with the agency and we will prepare a new law." That's legitimate. But they wrote down that they had adopted 20 days after the government was appointed, a decision by which they had stopped the law that we had adopted. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u64	Mr. Gaspar Gasapr Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u65	President, colleagues and colleagues! Again and again, the answer is that the incapacitated have the ability to incapacitate the incapacitated, and so we are all capable of something. Here we are 99% of all in order to support the law, only minimal corrections are needed. And what's happening to us? That because the government does not want to identify itself with the opinion of the anti-corruption commission, because you do not want a clause or a protector to be incorporated into the law so that corruption cannot occur. That's unreasonable. And if we supported that, and if it were clear to everyone here, we'd have finished that point an hour ago today. And that's how we literally ping-pong because some people think, "Yeah, there's not going to be any corruption." How come it won't come? 21 years of talk and it is written everywhere that corruption is at the summit in Slovenia. Let's stop her! Now I wonder whether the government is the executive body to enforce the laws of the national assembly or vice versa. We are literally here today, under the dictatorship of the government. The government orders, the government does not give an opinion on the anti-corruption opinion. And what's going on? You gently confirm that you don't need to. Then let's end the anti-corruption commission, because we don't need it if we don't take it into account. Here they clearly warn us that we need to be careful, but no, we say we don't need it. How, then, will we ensure that citizens and citizens and all other people living in Slovenia respect the laws? No, that's not how you do it, gentlemen! I strongly protest against anyone who says otherwise. We got an anti-corruption opinion, but if we got it now, half an hour ago. Does it matter if it was 20 days ago, or does it matter? [[...]] We got him before we made any decisions. Even if we didn't get it, we could think of our own conduct and vote. I will therefore vote against it if it is not stated in Article 10 that the assets transferred to the local community cannot be deducted over a period of five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you. I'll open another round of debate. Before that, I will give my word to the Secretary of State. Mag. Hartman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, from my interventions, I don't know if you realize that our position and also the position of the Government as regards the opinion sent by the anti-corruption commission is clear. The Anti-Corruption Commission is showing us in two points. The first point is the observation relating to the reduced procedure. Here, through my intervention, it has already been explained twice that, while it is true that the anti-corruption commission is talking about a rapid procedure, we have somehow come to realize that this is a reduced procedure, but this process of adoption has been ongoing since May, this means the whole process, although it has been defined as shorter, has been for more than four months. The Anti-Corruption Commission has been able to cooperate all the time, and this also allows it to understand why the Government has decided to shorten the procedure, and in particular that the bill itself contains elements that agree with the Slovenian economy's start-up package. And that was also a clear reason why the government decided that this was a reduced procedure. As regards the definition of public interest and Article 10 referred to by the anti-corruption commission, it is also clear that we have already explained this on the Committee. It was obvious that the Anti-Corruption Commission could not cooperate, it could cooperate, but its position was taken after the last committee, which is said after the second reading of the law itself. As regards public interest, however, it has already been explained why the definition of public interest within municipalities and countries is not disputed for us, as well as institutions that guarantee transparency and the legality of the procedure, exist in Slovenia and need not be referred to again in the very contents of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for explaining that. I am opening another round of debate on the amendment to Article 10. Please sign up for the one you want to discuss. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State, I would be very happy if you could tell me what are the elements that will stimulate economic activity, because this is supposed to be the reason for the urgent procedure. Unfortunately, we did not get this answer on the committee where I worked, even though we asked the same question. I hope you are not in such a hurry because of the things the Anti-Corruption Commission reminds us of and that the entire coalition has shown today that it cares little about how, where, and when, it will not fight corruption, but obviously it has carried it out with great enthusiasm. As we say, please tell me what are the activities that will accelerate economic growth, that this process is as necessary as you describe.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u70	Would you like to respond, Mr. Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I can just answer that. The fact is that in the economic development package adopted by the Government on 31 May, if I am not mistaken, also the transfer of property owned by the State, which does not need to be owned or managed by the municipalities to provide for the economy. This means setting up development incubators or for any economic activity in this area. This is one of the commitments made by the Government under the second package of economic promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to discuss it. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u73	Just a brief thought to this implementation. First time. The irreparable consequences for the country, I don't believe, will arise if the phoenix can't fly in as short a time as you imagined. Another time. The urgent procedure, since you are reading to the Commission to prevent corruption, and the observation was even made by coalition Members that the opposition should have bribed the anti-corruption commission because it had warned the Committee about the possibility of systematic incorporation of corruption into the law. Let's face it, everybody! It's a disaster I'm obviously protesting against. So much trust you who are kind and in the SDS you could have with your fellow Members that you know we're not doing this. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is an independent institution that weighs even the European Union. You like to refer to it when you take emergency measures that are irreparable for Slovenia. I'll turn around. However, I say, double morals on the part of government representatives, I hope and I want you to defend the public interest in the amendment to Article 14 which we are putting forward. This is where we follow the public interest of the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much. More mag. Alenka Bratusek. No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Stephnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u75	I do not agree with what has been said to accelerate economic growth. Three packages were issued to increase economic growth, if you remember. Now he was third. There's about 130 packages in the third. What did the autumn forecast of Death show us? That it will not only be negative economic growth and a lower social gross product and negative signs in private, public consumption, investments, stocks, exports and imports, but that this will even change into a trend. This is said to be a longer trend of negative growth than we take. We are now already in 2014 when there is likely to be very negative economic growth. If it is a management strategy to get on your knees until 2014 and then slowly starts to rise up 2015 to keep someone in power, it is the devil's fault. Because something's going to happen sooner because we're falling so steeply down. These measures to increase economic growth are saloon. They have no effect immediately over a period of 6 months. What Positive Slovenia has announced is the need to do, state infrastructure projects, to build, new jobs with eco-industry, thermal protection in Slovenia, social entrepreneurship and so on. These are the things that need to be done, not written. The excuse to clean up the pension fund, the excuse that there are no projects, these are excuses that cannot justify the situation that is today. I cannot agree with what you say will accelerate economic growth if a property is transferred from the country to the municipal level, and you insist stubbornly on a double-faced face so as not to introduce a fuse so that it cannot be sold at the level of the municipality for 5 years. But we in companies have to do this, before I was in the company, but we have to accept your proposals and sign that we will not be alienated if we receive a European and state subsidy, 5 years of this from our territory or from our company. That's true duplicity. And that's stubborn insistence. You're all saying there won't be any corruption, one, two, three. Then why not write it down for five years, for example, that it should not be sold in the congregation? And we're all, 99%, as was said, for this marriage and we accept it and let it go on. I don't understand if you have such instructions from the top that none of you hope to accept it. If you're all saying there won't be any corruption and I don't know what else to do without putting a security guard in there for five years?Oh, my God! It's got to be something mental, something's got to kill you. You have a command that you do not have in your conscience. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u76	Mr. Stephnik, let's leave psychoanalysis for some other occasion. Good. We have thus concluded the debate on the amendment to Article 10. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 13. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mrs. Damjana Petavar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you, President, for your word. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The amendment submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, which reads as adding a new ninth indent: "If the assets are transferred to the lessor for the purpose of carrying out the activity for which they are established, and for which the Council of the Self-Governmental Local Community decides that this is in the interest of the self-government local community" and so on. I also believe that the explanation states that every society cannot acquire a status in the public interest, especially a society operating in small and medium-sized municipalities where they also have their own registered seat. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u78	Colleague Petavar Dobovšek, you are now discussing the amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u79	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u80	But we're at 13.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u81	By the time you were 14, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u82	No, no, I said 13. Reliable.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u83	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u84	It's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u85	I'll call you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u86	May I ask if anyone would like to discuss the amendment to Article 13? [[No, no, ……]] Then you can just keep going. We are already discussing the amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much again. I'm sorry, but I heard wrong. So I'm moving on. These are societies for which this amendment, which is prepared, I believe, in a positive direction and with the intention of being included in this amendment of the law, as well as in the procedure for obtaining certain rental properties, including those operating at the local level. However, these are companies which, on the basis of the call for proposals, derive funds from local budgets, operate to a lesser extent and usually do not have an employee. They operate in most cases on a voluntary basis and it is questionable whether these companies have sufficient own funds to pay rent, even below the estimated value. To this amendment, I am most skeptical precisely for systemic reasons or legal reasons, but otherwise I feel fine. As such, societies cannot be equated with those governed by public law. The status of operation of various associations in the public interest in different fields may be obtained by companies or other private legal persons under the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest, on the basis of the Social Act and on the basis of the various sectoral rules specifying the criteria for the granting of the status of society. It also lays down general conditions for the granting of this status, advantages and facilitation, as well as the obligations of all these societies which they have towards different institutions. I believe that the amendment has a good purpose, but, as I have already mentioned, we cannot compare it with those of public law. That's why I can't support this amendment. If we only look at the content of the amendment, even the world of the local self-governing community would conclude with a decision to grant the status of public interest, if that is in the interest of the local self-governance community. The municipal council or the city council cannot grant this status. For this reason, I cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal, which is also related to the discussion of the colleague before me and the debate that took place on the working body of the mother. I believe that it is the local community, the municipal or city council that can tell what is in the public interest of the local community. Earlier we listened when you wanted to instill in us our perception and perception that the local community is the one, the municipal council, the mayor who can decide when selling property, what is in the public interest of a local community. In this case, you tell us the opposite, or you tell us — I wrote down — that the local community or the self-governing local community cannot decide what its public interest is. That's a little contradictory, but nothing. I would like to, and this is also my procedural proposal that the Legislative and Legal Service deliver an opinion on whether the amendment we have drafted in Positive Slovenia is an appropriate systemic solution. This is what we asked and called for the legal and legal service already on the home labour body, but we did not get an opinion. Given that the amendment was also substantively acceptable to all Members of Parliament and Members of the Committee, although the coalition did not express itself positively, it allowed for an open opportunity to be decided on about it, because we promised to re-invest it in the National Assembly, on the basis of an opinion that we will all receive together from the Legislative and Legal Service. President, my procedural proposal is that the Legislative and Legal Service, before continuing the debate on the amendment that we have prepared, draw up an opinion and make the opinion known to Members and Members of the National Assembly. And that. I believe that we all know well that the status of society in the public interest is granted by the Minister of State, it is said at national level, and that this often makes smaller municipalities and those societies or non-profit organisations that operate on a smaller scale in smaller municipalities, smaller towns. With this amendment, we want to approach or give a chance to smaller municipalities, smaller local communities, smaller non-profit organizations, so that they can in some way benefit from the benefits of the law itself. The amendment is absolutely positive and well-meaning. But he also has a security guard. And this protected the congregation’s world.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I cannot accept this procedural proposal because the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in this case is pointless, unnecessary. No one's saying we don't recognize the legal correctness of this amendment. It is a matter of appropriateness whether the amendment is accepted or not accepted. Members and Members of Parliament will decide on this on the basis of the debate that has taken place. And it would also be extremely unusual for any amendment and its legal accuracy to be defined by the Legislative and Legal Service now. This would be some completely new practice, so I find this inappropriate. This would close the debate on the amendment to Article 14. Is there still a debate? Good. I then open an application to discuss the amendments to Article 14. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u91	Very briefly, because time is practically gone. President, you're wrong. My colleague pointed out that, while the substantive amendment was acceptable and good to her, she wondered about its systemic regularity. It is said that the amendment from a systemic point of view is correctly placed. I would expect an opinion from the Legal and Legal Service here. This was also the promise on the parent’s working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u92	Mr. Mirko Brulz, Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment because I think it is true that the self-governing local community is also deciding on these matters. The explanation is somewhat inconsistent and difficult to understand. I read twice that I knew what it was. See, throughout the adoption of the amendments, not only on this agenda item, but also on the other hand, Members and Members from the largest party are mostly advertised. It is said that there is one deadline that coordinates everything and commands everything, so also the proposal of Positive Slovenia to regulate the matter at this level, to know whether we are within the legal framework or not, does not come up with an expression. Maybe it's just by chance, there are puppet puppets in the exhibitions, because the other members of the coalition don't discuss, they're just here to vote and confirm what one hand says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u94	Mr Matjaž Zanoskar, then Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you. See, with this amendment, tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we want the same attitude towards all municipalities, large and small. And you know that big congregations have more societies that have a status of public importance. Small municipalities have many societies that do not have this status, but are very important for the development of local communities in all areas, cultural, sports and so on. With this amendment, we could achieve that these societies, which are of great importance to small congregations, could live, rent or manage a property and thus enrich the development of the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Positive Slovenia has run out of time. We conclude the debate on the amendments. The decision on the amendments will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on infringements. The proposal for this law was submitted by a group of 10 Members and Members, with Mr Jank Webro, first signed. The Group of Ten Members and Members with the same initial signature also requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate, which we will now hold. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Webar for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have decided to introduce a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Offences, because we believe that we can reward safe drivers by cancelling any penalty imposed on them by a minor traffic offence that does not affect and threaten other road users. The profession is also the one that has determined which are minor offences for which a fine is sufficient, so in our opinion we can also make a fine in a warning if the offender has not committed any traffic offence three years or more before the day of the sentence. Thus, the purpose of the law was to change the fine into a pronunciation if the offender has not committed a road traffic offence since the date of the offence’s service for three years or more. In our view, the change in thinking about road safety is also very important, as road safety is a topic and an area that is much under discussion, as well as legislation in this area is changing relatively rapidly. In our opinion, it's too fast. The vast majority of people who take part in road transport in one form or another on a daily basis are, in one way or another, always under some stress, always under some challenge of what might happen. And it should be in the interest of all of us to arrive at the goal safely. Of course, opinions differ as to the details of security: whether it is enough to force or to pay more attention to incentives or prevention. The dilemma is also how strict sanctions should be and what incentives should be and whether it is appropriate to encourage drivers to drive safely. If we look around the world, we find that there are known examples of indirect incentives for drivers who are not violators of road traffic regulations. One of these interesting examples, in our opinion, is Sweden, where they even moved on to the idea of a so-called radar lottery. What's this all about? Following this idea, the driver driving within the speed permit, and this speed permit is also measured by radar in a specific location, automatically included in the draw for the financial prize. And in Sweden, this prize is financed from funds derived from the payment of penalties for traffic offences. The Stockholm prize amounted to 20,000 crowns for the driver, recorded by the radar and driven at a lower speed than allowed, or the largest, as permitted on that particular road under control. So we know cases where they want to encourage safe drivers to drive even safer with rewards. It is true that there is no system of regulation in the laws of European countries, but it is true that there are additional points for good drivers or otherwise a certain form of stimulation for driving without offence. In Slovenia this principle has not been known at all or tried to enforce, but if we look at how the Dictionary of the Slovenian Language defines the award – the prize is something that can be given to someone as evidence, recognition of a noble act. So if we come from this, the proponents argue that there is no more noble act than protecting life and health. That's why we think safe drivers deserve a reward. We hope that this law will be challenging enough in the general debate to reflect on this and also decide to support this way of awarding safe drivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you. The opinion of the Government will be presented by the Secretary of State, Mr Helmut Hartman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The draft law regulates changes to the sentence of the sentence of the notice under certain conditions if the offender has committed an offence against road traffic safety where no penalty is imposed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal of the law mainly for substantive and systemic reasons. In the light of the Act on Offences, under the conditions and in the manner laid down in Article 7(4) of the Act, a warning may be given instead of the imposition of an infringement procedure or the issuance of a decision on the offence of the offender. This means that no decision on the offence may be issued before the notice is given, meaning no payment order or decision on the offence. Where an authorised official considers that a criminal procedure must be instituted but not a fine imposed, he shall apply the third paragraph of this Article of the Offences Act in order to give a warning and not a sanction instead of a fine. The warning is not a sanction for offences, whereas the reminder itself is regarded as a sanction for offences. However, the offence law also provides in Article 53 when an authorised person of a criminal authority may, instead of imposing sanctions on the offender, only warn the offender, namely, two conditions: if the offence is of minor importance and if the authorised official considers that, in view of the importance of the act, he has warned of a sufficient measure. This means that this warning, in the opinion of the authorised person, is somehow sufficient in terms of the severity of the offence. These are also the main reasons for the nonconsistency of the proposal. On this basis, it was decided by the Government not to support the proposal itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. First, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thanks again for saying that. This time on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In addition, in the introduction, let me explain that in our parliamentary group we have introduced before this law a law on road traffic rules that allowed for the award of safe drivers in a way that allowed the driver to collect a positive bonus point if for more than three years he has not infringed road traffic rules punishable by a sentence of criminal penalties. We have introduced this law before the adoption of the Road Traffic Rules Act by the Government, which has dramatically reduced the penalties for road traffic offences, has in particular reduced the sentence of the penalty points. Therefore, we considered it unwise to introduce a system of awarding drivers with positive points, which you can then count down if you get a penalty point, because under this new law on road traffic rules, only the worst offences are punishable by criminal points. Even in the Group of the Social Democrats, it is of interest that we do not reward those who commit the worst crimes, but those who do not actually endanger other actors in transport. And the Act on Offences, which is in the procedure, actually wants to turn the fine into a warning for drivers who have not committed a violation for three or more years. The fact is that such cases are also encountered in insurance companies. In fact, these have an established system of reduced premiums for good drivers. Obviously, insurance companies are paid to reward such drivers as the lower inflows from premiums are successfully offset by lower costs due to disaster damage. And if the reward system has successfully introduced insurance companies in order to generate profits, the State should also introduce it in order to protect people's lives and health. This is also, in our view, the greatest profit and the greatest contribution the country can make to someone. The reward of drivers, safe drivers in a way that changes the fine into a warning, is also defined in the Offences Act and regardless of the warnings given by the Government's representative in his implementation, we see the possibility that a so-called change in the payment of the fine may also be made in this Offences Act with a warning. Indeed, the fact is that any payment order received by the perpetrator gives the possibility of a complaint. And in this appeal, you can write or identify that you have not committed any wrongdoing for three years and that it is very easy to find that you have done so. This also gives effect to this practice of awarding safe drivers. Thus, we believe that there are precisely all the reasons and grounds in the rules currently in force to enforce the award of drivers. We are also convinced that in this general debate held today by the National Assembly, there is an opportunity and a need to exchange views and also to see where there is any other regulation or procedure that should be analysed and complemented in order to actually legitimise the award of drivers in Slovenia. As the Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the award of safe drivers will indeed be one of the important challenges for all other parliamentary groups, and that we will, with the support of the continuation of this procedure, accompany this law to a second reading, where, if necessary, we will complement it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u102	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The quality of life of all of us also depends on road safety. Ensuring greater security can be achieved by encouraging road users to behave more responsibly in transport, by ensuring consistent compliance with regulations and creating awareness of the importance of traffic safety, as well as by providing safer vehicles and road infrastructure. The novelty proposal therefore proposes that we reward safe drivers by writing down any penalties and giving a warning about minor traffic offences committed that do not affect or threaten other road users. In the Civil Gazette, we note that the proposed institute is not new in our legal order, as the legislation already in force allows for a warning. In view of the development of society in the last century and the multitude of legal provisions adopted that provide for different forms of sanctions and, in view of the efficiency of the greater mobility and speed of the procedure, it is also necessary for the administrative authorities to decide on the infringements. In 2005 the police, as a criminal body, were given certain powers of decision that had previously been in the jurisdiction of the criminal judge. The police are the biggest criminal organ today. According to statistics on police work, in 2011, the police found 355 000 road traffic violations, which is 15% less than in 2010. Of this, 42 thousand warnings were issued, which is 23% less than in 2010. Statistical data show that many proposals have been made for the initiation of an offence procedure for minor and minor offences. Police, radar and inspectors are under-applying a warning statement, and this institution, which is offered by the law in force, could be used several times and thus burden the judges with easier procedures in order to have more time for more difficult cases. In the Civil Gazette, we estimate that the proposed amendment is not suitable for further consideration, as it does not include solutions that would simplify the operations of criminal authorities, enable more cost-effectiveness of procedures and consequently reduce the financial burden of the State budget, allow faster closure of procedures and introduce more operationality of criminal authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u104	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In a natural, ideal state, all people should have an equally high sense of justice and a view of what is right and what is wrong. However, there is no ideal, it is only a state in which we create society as such by individuals with different views, different interests and yes, even with a different degree of moral commitment to ourselves and others. On the basis of our diversity, we are forced to arrange the most urgent relations in society if we are to avoid anarchy and governments or to survive. To this end, law, law, as a system of rules, which are socially acceptable and with respect to which there is a certain consensus in society. The law is not just its purpose, but it introduces into society some legal order, determines what is permissible and what is unacceptable. He's drawing the boundaries of my lawful and your forbidden. It allows every individual to exercise his or her rights and demands that his or her duties be fulfilled. Human and social life consists of an infinite number of individual actions, behaviors, actions, and actions. With them, we satisfy our needs and carry out our duties. We do not meet our needs, and we do not do our duty when it seems appropriate, pleasant, easy, but we are bound by certain rules. These rules arise because of co-existence with other people, these rules, which are commands and prohibitions, and they are ordinary, moral, social, legal, but we know that idealism is not, so it is not possible to expect individuals to always and everywhere to respect the rights and duties that apply in society itself. Although undesirable, but actually living, the occurrence of behaviours that a particular social group or society considers to be completely unusual, harmful, immoral, a social and social hazards. If such behaviours are to be minimised in society, we need to establish an appropriate response to their occurrence. We must report that we do not approve or tolerate such acts as society. To this end, we have developed a system of penal law which, through sanctions, condemns violations of the rules morally and seeks to strengthen social morality and influence the development of social responsibility and discipline of people on the one hand, and to deter the offender from refracting the rules on the other. Certain rules are therefore mandatory. They represent our duty, our moral duty, and not just the possibility of being able to respect them. Proposers of the Law on Offences believe that good drivers should be stimulated by their efforts to be among the best. And if we were rewarded, we would be proud and strive to stay on the right path. Normative traffic safety arrangements should be regarded as forcing them to remove only when the driver is caught in a breach. The purpose of the proposal for a new law is, according to the proposal, to focus not only on punishing the bad, but also on rewarding good deeds. They also argue that there is no more noble act than protecting life and health, so they feel that safe drivers deserve a reward. It is difficult to agree with this argument that a driver for a careful and slow ride near schools where scattered children play deserves a prize. Such driving is not his option or his noble act; it is his duty — to protect the lives and health of these children. It's my duty to protect your life as a trafficker. I have no choice here. I can't choose between whether or not, depending on the reward that awaits me, by speeding down the biker or by phone calling, I'm going to crash into a car where my family is going on vacation. Respect for road traffic rules in order to prevent such events is not only my legal one, but above all my moral obligation, for which I cannot and cannot expect any reward. The proposal to reward offenders continues to open up debates as quickly as possible on whether the award of beneficiaries can extend to other areas of criminal law, such as criminal offences. In time, will we begin to think that thieves who steal items of small value will be rewarded in time if they abandon their activities? Will we be able to talk about an effective system of penal law at that time? The Institute of Warning already contains the Act on Offences in force, which provides for an expression of a warning in respect of offences of minor importance, i.e. one that has been committed in circumstances that make it particularly light and that do not cause or result in harmful consequences. With the proposed amendment to the Law on Offences, which is being prepared at the Ministry, this institution is expected to have an even clearer definition, thus expecting a greater number of warnings given instead of a repressive measure. It is therefore an act that is particularly easy to treat on its own and not on the basis of some prior good and exemplary behavior. Citizens and citizens must also respect and fulfil the duties we have, and not only refer to the rights that should belong to us. Each of us has his own duties in this society, for which we cannot expect a reward. Not particularly if these duties relate to the life and health of people around us. For this reason and because of the facts already mentioned in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we consider that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Offences is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia fully agree with the proposed amendment to the Law on Offences, that it is the interest of all of us to arrive safely for our purpose and that we also have incentives in the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia for safe driving in the form of erasure of criminal points. With a view to increasing traffic safety, the applicant therefore proposes to stimulate drivers in terms of awarding or simply warning by police officers of those whose offences are not punishable by a sentence of criminal justice, provided that the offender has used a legal remedy against the fine, i.e. to appeal, and that he has not committed any traffic offence in the last three years. In the DeSUS Group, we fully understand the proposaler's efforts and agree with it in principle, but we point out that our legislation foresees special action in the event of violations of minor importance. Thus, this institute is not a novelty and the proposal is practically already included in the criminal provisions. Otherwise, our legislation provides for the expression of a sanction of a warning in specific cases. Thus, a warning, which is one of the nicest police measures, can be expressed orally or in writing using technical means or via public media, must be clearly and briefly expressed. In the framework of police powers, the legislation currently in force is a warning when there has been no breach or threat. Police officers can say it in a preventive sense or to prevent any violation or threat or harmful consequences as a warning when the violation has already occurred. Police officers may also give oral warning on the basis of the Offences Act to persons who have committed an offence, but only if they find that it is a minor offence and if they assess that they will warn of a sufficient measure. For example, a police officer may decide to simply warn a driver who does not have a driving licence while driving, or he has not violated road traffic rules. Thus, only a warning is not a sanction as defined by criminal law. Penalties are fines, reminders, road traffic criminal points, termination of driving licences and prohibition of the use of driving licences, prohibition of driving a motor vehicle, expulsion of a foreigner from the country, removal of items, exclusion from public procurement procedures and other educational measures. The warning provides an alternative to sanctions for an offence which can be imposed instead of all sanctions for an offence. Nor is it necessary to carry out any procedure, especially the infringement procedure, but it is a preventive measure, by which it can be said to save the issuance of a decision on the offence. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we estimate that the proposed amendment to the Law on Offences is irrelevant and that it does not follow the purpose for which the proposer joined the amendment. We will therefore vote against the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u108	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Novel of the Law on Offences tabled in the legislative procedure by Members of the Social Democrats' Group with the first-signed Mr Webro is intended to give incentives to safe drivers. In explaining this law, the applicant himself finds that other countries around the world, apart from bonuses in insurance companies or in some cases occasional prizes for good drivers in the form of fuel vouchers, do not know the incentives. In some countries of the European Union, however, there are incentives for safe drivers to allocate additional points. Members of the New Slovenia Group welcome the idea of encouraging safe road users. However, the solution proposed by the proposer in this proposal is weak and selective. In general, the fact that a single infringement of road traffic rules is prescribed as the only penalty for a fine does not mean that it is a matter of facilitating infringement of road traffic rules. Traffic participants are not only motor vehicle drivers. It is only there that they are prescribed as criminal sanctions in addition to fines that are also criminal points. Other road users, such as cyclists, pedestrians and drivers, cannot be penalised. However, they may pose a serious threat to the safety of road users or even cause a traffic accident, and only a fine is imposed on them to violate road traffic rules. Therefore, the criteria laid down in the fine are too wide to include all offenders of lighter road traffic rules in this framework. The criteria of the action brought against the offence issued do not guarantee the principle of equal treatment. Indeed, we need to know that many infringements of road traffic regulations, which are safe drivers, are limited in the exercise of this right. The legal remedy in question requires certain knowledge, but only with regard to the correct form, but also with regard to the content. And for that reason alone, some do not take advantage of this right. In particular, a large proportion of offenders benefit from the half-penalty bonus they pay within 8 days. In the view of Members of the New Slovenia Group, any legislative solutions to encourage safe drivers should be taken more systematically and, above all, these incentives should be regulated in such a way as to give equal treatment to all road users who have not been punished at a certain time prior to consideration, either in the form of a lower fine or in the form of a warning sanction. In any event, such a measure should be limited to those road traffic violations which do not pose a greater threat to road safety and which are not offered by the proposed legal solution. Members of the New Slovenia Group, for these reasons, will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you. On behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you. Your Honor! In the draft law and its explanation, we were particularly disturbed by the fact that the applicant is primarily referring to drivers, although it would be right to call all participants, including pedestrians, bikers, motorists and so on, to respect, conscientious and responsible behaviour in traffic. However, since the provision of the bill is very clear and speaks of the fact that the penalty imposed on a traffic offence can be changed into a warning to the offender who has been fined for a traffic offence, not only for drivers but also for other road users, we support the bill in the Positive Slovenia Group. We would only draw attention to the problem that arose when the Law on Road Traffic Rules was last amended, which was adopted by the National Assembly 18. Seven. In 2012, it started to apply 1. 9. 2012. The motion for an amendment to the Law on Offences in the Proposal for a Law states that it is the profession which has determined which are the offences for which a fine is sufficient. They therefore believe that under exceptional circumstances it can be turned into a warning. With this claim, unfortunately, with regard to the last amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act in Positive Slovenia, we cannot agree, as the penalties for individual traffic offences have been reduced very much, both to the point of being able to express themselves, as the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out in its opinion on the proposed Road Traffic Rules Act. The Novela A on road traffic rules has reached into certain provisions in which the original law imposed a stricter sanctioning regime, namely a step towards slightly sanctioning infringements of road traffic rules. Notwithstanding the fact that it is, in principle, a free field of assessment of the proposed law, the substance of the draft law did not show on the basis of which criteria the applicant decided to choose the offences in which the applicant proposed a lighter sanction than then in force, nor was the criteria for the reduction of the prescribed sanctions explained. Novela A thus did not introduce a systematic criterion for which offences are heavier than others and what sanctions should be prescribed for them. For example, novel A deleted the penalty points in the event of an offence when the driver exceeds the permitted speed in the pedestrian area and in the calmed traffic area for more than 10 kilometres per hour. This is a very serious offence that gravely endangers the safety of weaker road users, such as children, because we know that the area of calm traffic is usually established around schools and kindergartens. We allow even impunity to be given to such a new offender, since, as has already been said, such an offence does not contain any more criminal points, but only a fine. However, since this is a lonely case that will otherwise be in the eyes, in Positive Slovenia we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u112	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you, President. The proposal to supplement the Law on Offences contains only one article which provides for a provision of a warning in order to change the sentence imposed for certain offences into a warning if the offender submits a legal remedy against the offence and at the same time the criminal authority finds in the legal proceedings that the offender has committed no traffic offence for three or more years prior to the sentence. Proposals in the introduction to the law state that the purpose of the law is to encourage drivers to drive safely through the incentive system and thus to increase road safety. The solution to the law is to establish the award of safe drivers and thereby increase awareness of the importance, respect for road traffic rules. According to the SDS, this would be an inadequate systemic solution, as the applicants propose to include in the Offences Act a provision that would apply only to traffic offences, the legal system does not fall within the Offences Act, but rather into the Road Traffic Rules Act. The proposed regime also discriminates between different offenders, since traffic violators would have the possibility of changing the fine into a warning but not the perpetrators of the other offences. This would also mean a reduction in prevention, since the general purpose of prevention is that the participant in transport does not intend to commit or is intended to "do not do so" because he knows that he will be subject to sanctions. The proposed solution would allow a person not to commit a crime for three years, and then he would know that only a warning can be given when serving a new offence that is not punishable by criminal matters. Even if the offender is not penalized by criminal points, this does not mean that the offender has not compromised the safety or life of the transport participants, including his or her own, or threatened the property of other persons. Even the simplest offence not punishable by criminal points may in certain circumstances pose a serious threat to the safety and life of other road users, such as walking in the pedestrian area under the Road Traffic Act. If some penalties have already been proposed for drivers who have not committed an offence for a long time, this should be done at least in respect of offences which do not constitute a threat to the safety or traffic operators. The proposed warnings relate to certain infringements, namely, cases, infringements of the restriction or prohibition of traffic of road users, infringements of the provisions relating to winter equipment, cleaning of vehicles, snow and ice, and so on, certain infringements, restrictions on the use of motorways, infringements on the use of mobile telephones during driving, infringements of the prohibition on driving on the wrong lane when it comes to motor vehicles, violations of certain speed violations, violations of the rules on the meeting of vehicles, violations of the rules on the approximation, classification and driving of vehicles, violations of the rules on stopping and packing of vehicles, violations of the prohibition on parking in spaces for persons with disabilities, violations of the rules on the use of vehicle lights and on the use of multiple types of vehicles. It is only in these cases that such a change in law would in many cases pose a serious threat to the safety and life of road users. In the previous mandate, the SDS Group has tabled a proposal to amend the Road Traffic Rules Act, where it has proposed a statement of warning if the participant does not interfere with or threaten other participants or does not cause them harm, it shall make the offences listed more easily. We also believe that, while the prizes should be awarded to insurance companies in existing legislation, some awards have already been awarded, namely the possibility of paying all the fines in half within 8 days, the possibility of paying the fines. Let us also draw from the view that we must all respect the laws and that we cannot be rewarded if we respect certain laws or if we are not caught in breaking certain laws. We therefore believe that the proposal for a law in this proposed form is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u114	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. And we are going to have a general debate between Members and Members. First, he has the word Mr. Only Bevk and then the Mag. Jana Jenko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the proposal for a law that has been tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. It is surprising, however, that even with such a well-intentioned proposal, we do not have the support of a government coalition. The argument that the law will be rejected by the coalition is implausible, because our proposal for stimulation is considered to be a small offense, punishable by a maximum of 250 euros, and if we consider another half, it is 125 euros and less. That is why I would expect the coalition to support this proposal, even because they themselves stimulated in the government proposal such offences as, say, in Article 42, integration into the market, a change in direction and movement with the vehicle, where the initial penalty was 300 euros and 3 criminal points, and according to a new government and current proposal, this is only 120 euros. And to tell us that we are going to pose a risk to traffic with this new regime is not related to any specific arguments. Well, there are only additional points allocated to good drivers across Europe, and in Slovenia there are no additional points provided for good drivers or any other legally defined form of incentive for driving without offence. The prize is something that can be given to someone's code proof of recognition for a noble act. As a result of this, we argue that there is no more noble act than protecting life and health, so we believe that safe drivers deserve some kind of reward and reward usually positively motivates people and encourages them to act consciously in the common good. Insurance companies also have an established system of reduced premiums for good drivers, so they are obviously paid to reward good drivers as the lower premium inflow is effectively replaced by lower costs for disaster damage. We also believe that this option will have an impact on road users. Such legislation will no longer be based solely on repression and sanctioning of offences, but will in fact reward safe driving and thus encourage positive behaviour by drivers. Given that the Minister is also in charge of this area, Minister Cernač said in July on the working body that he could listen to the ideas of the Social Democrats if they were elaborated in detail, I expected representatives of the coalition's parliamentary groups to support this law today. In our proposal, as it is said, the amendments to the Offences Act turn fines into a warning sentence, i.e. a fine imposed for a traffic offence which, under the law governing traffic rules, is not punishable by a sentence of criminal justice, is converted into a sentence of warning, in two cases, if the offender who has been fined for a traffic offence is subjected to an offence by the criminal authority to a remedy and if, in the proceedings, the criminal authority finds that the offender has not committed a traffic offence three years or more before the day of the sentence, it is said that it will really stimulate those extremely good drivers who have committed no offence for three years or more. And I appeal to respectable colleagues to support this proposal at first reading as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u116	The following was reported for the debate of the Magi. Jana Jenko, who's not here. Mr. Franz Puksich. He's not here either. Then Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. He's not here either. Mr. Mirko Brulc, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u117	Oh, finally, thank you very much. Clearly, the search for reasons why we should not support this law in our first reading is a very difficult task. I hear you're supposed to get a reward for driving slowly past school. That's not what this is about. But if he never gets punished for driving slowly past school, he deserves a reward. I wonder if we can do anything for citizens and citizens who respect the laws in this country. Such examples are in the world, including those who are regular taxpayers and so on. And I think that decent and exemplary citizens and citizens should also be rewarded. This bill does not impose any material burden on the state budget. Many drivers, drivers, road users – and I agree with the need to add a number of participants because there is really too much focus on drivers and drivers – need to be rewarded. I haven't been punished myself in probably 10 years. But when I was, I was driving too fast in the neighborhood. But not the wild ones, but the normal ones, 15 miles more than usual. And you might be proud if you could have a sticker on your car, a model driver, or whatever. And if I had that sticker, I'd think hard about where I'm going to do a little stupidity with a quick ride or some preconceived overture or anything. And that would help improve road relations. Today, if you're driving on our roads, if you're listening to radio reports, that's one slaughterhouse, that's killing, that's nervousness, overtaking, blackmailing, on the highway you're always in mortal danger, because we're extremely uncultivated drivers and drivers. If this is one small contribution to greater security, then I immediately accept it, I support this law. Look, it's not a serious violation, there's no discount. If you are driving an alcoholic or otherwise drugged and so forth, a discount does not apply. If you're driving in such a way that you're threatening someone all the time, it doesn't count. Otherwise, it would help people to behave differently, of course. It was said if we're looking for rewards for all the thieves now. Now tell me if a thief, or a thief, if a tycoon admits damage to the state property, however, we encounter it, whether he has a discount on his sentence – he has it, and he threw it out of bankruptcy all over the country, literally. And the ones who played with the guns, the ones who played with the Patriots. And if they confess, they'll be punished so much less. So they're getting a prize. One exemplary driver, a model road user, and we are afraid to reward him. This is a first reading, and we have plenty of time to really make this law better. We got the government's opinion on the table today. There were many readings at the previous point because the anti-corruption commission sent its opinion three days before the law was considered. We have now received this and I could now comment on this fourth article, which actually bears the title of the Penalty for Offences and so on. Here's a comment from the government to alert us to what is sanction, what is offence, what is warning, and so on. It is too little time, take it and let us push this law into further consideration, prepare a good bill and adopt it to the benefit of all those who are cultivated users or contractors or whatever I say road traffic rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u118	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. After him, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar or if he does not exist, Mr Franz Jurša. If not, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, then Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye! I support the candidates in their intentions, and I believe they mean well. I'm not a fan of strict penal policy. But also as a teacher, the principal always insisted and stuck to some arrangements. But if someone didn't stick to him, I didn't always punish him, and I'm sure that's the right thing to do. We in our country need to increasingly trust people, and above all we need to help them to start taking responsibility. When you warn a person that he has made a mistake, you give him a chance to think that he is starting to think, and I am sure that he will respond in this way, that he will never again make a mistake or start to think about his actions. But if you punish someone, he gets the feeling that he's already done, he pays the fine, and we move on. With him, we have triggered hatred and, of course, the desire to massage, many times this is happening. Strict criminal policy has led the countries that are sticking to it, to even worse crimes, to even worse crimes, and I fear, given the implementation of the individuals who asked ministers yesterday, that more powers should be given to the minister, to give all the powers, etc., to go to the police state. On the left hand side, however, you are more oriented, your Christian values are even more important, and forgiveness is what you should know. It is not about forgiving those worst sins or crimes, but it is about warning and forgiving the current weaknesses that we individuals naturally receive and perform. Look, just one case. My friend called me, I just picked up my cell phone, and I said I can't because I'm driving, I hung up. The policeman stopped me, I told him what it was, and he sent him so he could give me a warning. He said no way. That's not the point. I paid the 60 euros. It was 120. But we have people who, of course, react differently, who press the gas even harder, drive faster, or respond in an inappropriate way. I will support this proposed law, which is not ideal as no law that we have adopted is ideal, and it needs to be finalized, and so it also needs to be given the opportunity and the opportunity to fix it and make it better than it has been so far. That is why we are going — to do better than we have been before — step in step toward a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u120	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, who is not in the Chamber, is also not a colleague of France Jurša, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, and therefore has the word mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek. There's a mag for her. Vogrin. If he's not here, she'll have the word mag. Majda Potter. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Once again, a nice hello to you all! I'm sure the proposaler's intention is good. However, I do not know if only one article proposed by the proposer makes such a significant change in the preventive area in this field of road transport rules. The aim of the proposer in the introduction is to encourage drivers to drive safely through the incentive system, thereby increasing road safety. A solution to the law is to establish the award of safe drivers and thereby increase awareness of the importance of compliance with road traffic rules. Once again, the proposal is well-intentioned, but I cannot vote in favour of this proposal. My decision is as follows: Article 53 of the Law on Offences specifies exactly when an authorised official may warn the offender. It reads: "The authorised official of the criminal authority may, instead of imposing sanctions, alert the offender if the offence is of minor importance and if the authorised official considers that, in view of the importance of the act, the alert is sufficient." And in the third paragraph, after that, I will not read everything: "The violating authority may keep a record of the warnings given, but it must not process personal data." Well, I'd like to draw attention to the word "may". Infringement authority, i.e. an authorised official, is a police officer in a particular case, and pursuant to Article 53 of the Offences Act, when the word “may” is used, a police officer shall have the discretion to act on a discretionary basis. And with this proposal for a new law, i.e. in just one article, when the proposer spells out exactly how the sentence should be warned, namely, that for certain offences the fine shall be converted into an extract of a warning, interfering with this discretionary right of an authorised official, in a particular case of a policeman who has a legal discretion. Let me just remember. The administrative authority, in a particular case, an authorised official, i.e. a policeman, may decide on a discretionary basis, an exception to the principle of legality, provided that such a decision fulfils certain conditions which must be laid down in the law. That's what we're talking about. Thus, the criminal authority, i.e. the policeman, has a discretionary right under the Law on Offences and may decide not to deal with the case and not to issue a decision on the offence or to deepen the offender if the facts and evidence collected show that the offence is not a minor offence or if the offence committed is of minor importance and if the authorised official considers that, in view of the importance of the act, it has warned of a sufficient measure. Well, we said if it was a minor offense. The essence of discretionary decision-making is that, on the basis of the legal power vested in the police officer, he can issue two substantively different decisions under the same established state of law, both of which are correct. In this respect, the difference between individual administrative acts and legally binding individual legal acts is essential. This explicit legal authority, which the police officer has, is a public benefit and a legal purpose for which the administrative authority is even authorised to issue acts and to decide freely, would have been withdrawn from the police if this 54th proposed article had been confirmed. For this reason, I will vote against the proposed novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u122	A mag has been reported for discussion. Ivan Vogrin, who isn't in the hall. That's why he's got the word "magic." Majda Potrat, followed by Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Last time we adopted the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, I was the only one who voted against that novel. Not because I lacked the social sense of pardoning certain penalties, but simply because I believe that the profession at the time of the preparation of the original law, says not this last novel, had in mind the general benefit, the public good and the improvement of road safety, although many warnings were heard in the public that only through repression we will not improve a situation that is certainly not satisfactory. This means that the number of victims of accidents has not decreased so much that the effects are only directly within one year of the adoption of the law and then the effects are slowly softened. You see, and it was just that every time we found that the effect was short-lived, that led me not to support the novel because I felt that the law was too short a time, so that we could think carefully about what was good in it and where it really needed to be corrected by professional standards and judgements. The warnings that it was not possible to detect any great consistency, but often also arbitrariness in amending individual provisions, directed me to press the "against" button. Just what a colleague from Positive Slovenia said in the delegation's opinion that the speeding of 10 kilometres on the highway could not be the same as the speeding of a 10-mile drive in a narrow village, and possibly even around the school, things that, as a matter of fact, bothered me very much, to some things – and they broke up, and it was also possible to read about this in public – that some changes were premature and underthinking. Even those assurances that offences of the worst nature were not exempt did not stand. Now why do I support this change? This amendment is actually a change in the same article, and I may also be approaching those who feel that it is possible to achieve more by encouraging it than by punishing it. I believe that transport culture in Slovenia is lower than elsewhere. And I'm going to give you a very specific example. In the summer, I met my high school classmate, who has been living in Norway for 42 years. And when the vehicle was too fast and caught up in it, it was, not without paying the fine immediately, but also writing an apology that she really didn't know how it could have happened to her, despite the ban or restriction of the vehicle. I don't know anyone in Slovenia who would do that. I want to say that Slovenia, or in this case Slovenia, in new circumstances, in a different respect for the observance of road traffic rules, can do otherwise and is used to this. I also know that in Sweden, it rarely comes to mind not to take into account, say, the deadlines for replacing winter tires or belts or anything else. It's simply a constant thing to realize that you have to do right and right in accordance with the rules, not only when you're afraid of being caught, but always. And it seems to me that the moral or the teaching of this proposal of ours is that you're used to referring to some respect for regulations. And then if it happens to you that you haven't been caught for three years in any violation, you can also claim that some minor offence is being committed to you, I'll say minor because it's not being punished by sanctions points, it turns into a warning. What has been said is that there is no legal remedy, that it is not possible to be well settled – since the possibility of a complaint is, indeed, and must be fulfilled, that you have not been punished or misled for three years, that this is not a serious breach, and then you can, if they do not believe you, or if you cannot enforce it, also complain and introduce this instrument, which was previously spoken of as missing us. So I think it would be an indication of the promotion of respect for order – but not only that "The Order is always attached" – if you remember what we were warned by the giant posters on the road – to respect those rules that are in favour of all those involved in the traffic, that it may also be subject to some recognition if you are doing well, but then you are not in depth. Now, whether the insurance company should do it or not, insurance companies have other options. Remember that an insurance company advertised lower premiums for drivers because they were not so many times the cause of accidents, or something like that, and then it was also the subject of a test whether it was discriminatory behaviour or not. We are very quick to be sensitive here, rather than following what can stimulate us to comply with the general rules in force. And I consider the legislation to be a general rule. And I would be glad that a rule that is not written as unwritten as people like to call it when they talk so freely that the laws are meant to be broken. I am convinced that laws are designed to help us to live in an orderly relationship. In this general disregard and failure to comply with standards, something would be encouraging, but it is welcome, so I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u124	Mr. Michael Prevc, followed by Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! True, this amendment does not bring any financial burdens. Indeed, I am sure that this amendment to the law is prepared for a very good reason, but I do not see any point in supporting this amendment of the law. You point out that good drivers need to be stimulated. You further state that the emphasis of the law should not only be on punishing the wicked but also on rewarding good deeds. Then you also state, in defense of this novel law, that there is no more noble act than the protection of life and health. Of course, I agree with this last one. Of course, I ask myself here whether it is necessary to reward someone for driving carefully and slowly past the schools where children play and to protect the lives and health of these children. I think it's a duty. It is the duty of all of us to protect the lives and health of other road users by driving safely, and we do not have to do this simply because we expect to be rewarded. I agree that there must be some line between those minor offenses that do not, in fact, have some harmful consequences. For this existing law on offences has a so-called institute of warnings which provides for a statement of warning in cases of a minor offence, i.e. one which has been committed in certain circumstances that make it particularly light and which does not give rise to or will not cause any harmful consequences. I would therefore like to stress once again that I see nothing wrong with such a proposal. I am sure that the intention of the applicants was good, but at the end of the day, I do not see any point in supporting such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u126	Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Happy Meh, and earlier Mr Weber, on behalf of the proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I think that, however, certain additional information or explanations should be provided, according to the Government's views and also some discussions. Let me take a walk through the government's opinions on this law first. In fact, our basic starting point, when we introduced the law, was actually an existing law on offences because it has a 4th Article, where the title says very clearly: Penalties for Offences. So if we are talking about sanctions for offences, then this first paragraph also states that "a prescribed sanction or warning shall be pronounced from this law". And from this we also concluded that it would be more appropriate to give a warning when you initiate judicial proceedings. However, in the opinion of the Government and the warning that once you have initiated a legal remedy, a reminder can be given. Thus, as a proposaler, we do not see any difficulty in actually replacing the word with a warning in the text of the law and thereby fully align the position of the Government, which points to this fact, particularly in the context of Article 63 of the Law on Offences, where it speaks of the possibility of giving a warning and not a warning in the event of judicial protection. So we have no problem replacing the word with warnings and we are fully coordinated in line with the warnings of the Government. Also with regard to the Government's concerns that this law should cause inequality before the law, because the right to change the fine should only be warned by those violators who have filed a legal remedy. We are not restricting anyone to file a legal remedy, so it would be very difficult for us to talk here about causing inequalities. In fact, each individual decides whether or not to use a legal remedy to change the fine into a reminder. It should also be noted, however, that paragraph 7 of Article 4 of the current law on offences relating to sanctions for offences, and in which it is actually possible to warn the perpetrator of the offence instead of initiating the infringement or issuing the decision, it should be noted that the police officer may, on his own discretion, decide whether to take a warning or to initiate the infringement procedure. And this is often our legislation. In particular, this Article 4 is, in this seventh paragraph, in force, flawed because it actually allows for a fully arbitrary decision by a police officer, whether he decides to issue a warning or whether he will institute an offence procedure. By adopting our law, because we are amending this 54th article, which speaks of a warning saying, or in this case, if we are given the option, a reminder, of course, let us remedy this flaw. Even so, this observation, which has somehow been given, does not stand, if we already have in our present law a warning defined and possible. However, the fact is that there is no proper procedure, how and when a policeman can actually decide to give a warning. Therefore, it makes sense to remove this ambiguity from the Offences Act. So our solution actually eliminates the confusion in the law currently in force. The Government also points out that it is not clear in the transitional provisions when this new Article should be applied. I think it is still necessary to point out here once again that, if adopted, the law shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal and shall apply from 1. 1. 2013 So, whoever's before 1. 1. 2013 has committed an offence, of course he cannot enforce a change in the fine to a reminder, because it is also very clear from this article that the date of the offence is valid from the date of the service, when you can use this legal remedy to change the fine to a reminder. So that the uncertainties in this law can be overcome with great ease, and we are grateful to the Government for some warnings and instructions. With regard to the other concerns that some have expressed in the debates themselves, however, I would like to add that the reference to changing the fine to a reminder will already be using a new term that is more appropriate, of course not meant to reward those who violate the rules in schools far from it. We also objected to the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act at this very point, where penalties have been drastically reduced if you exceed speed in the vicinity of schools. Before I remind you, it was legal for you to get a fine of 300 euros if you exceed a speed of 10 km/h and at the same time get 3 penalty points. Under the new regime, if you drive near schools, you get a fine of 40 euros, if you go over speeds of up to 5 km/h and 80 euros, if you go over the speed limit of 5 to 10 km/h. Therefore, a logical question would be raised because the answer to this question, which we have also raised when the Government was proposing the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, why this change has taken place, has not been given. So we can conclude that they decided on the basis of some criteria, based on assessments and by no means did they, I would say, put the law into the procedure without sober judgment. Although we know and have also warned today in the debate that the law in force before this has in fact been amended after the change of power. Therefore, the reason for the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act was the commitment of the largest political party in the coalition to reduce road traffic penalties, a completely political decision. It was not a professional decision, it was a political decision, and it is still on our side the greatest indication that this change has taken place without serious analysis. That is why we have also proposed that this law, which we have tabled, be dealt with on a regular basis and that we have also made a request for the general debate that we are having here today. And the fact is, therefore, we are convinced as proposing that with the system of awarding safe drivers, we can encourage safer driving for everyone who is involved in road transport. Sanctions and penalties are the last measure you take if someone really commits these offences often, unless at least three years have passed since you committed an offence in road traffic, so that in this case the difference is made which the Government wanted to warn or the Ministry representatives – those who are safe drivers – must be rewarded. But I'm sorry, it's a positive discrimination, if I may say so. I think that good examples would be good for us in Slovenia, too, are a guide that we can follow, and we want to be included in the system of awarding safe drivers. This may indeed be one of such first serious attempts to make it work in practice. I think the next step really could be that you can have as a safe driver when you register a vehicle, when you also buy it by the state a gifted sign, some symbolic recognition that you can also put on a car and warn that you belong to a category of safe drivers. And you can be sure that anyone who has such a mark will be even more careful in transport and will also try to justify in public the confidence given by the State on a daily basis. So a country can assign a kind of symbolic label to someone to be a safe driver. I wouldn’t mind thinking about someone who is constantly in violation of road regulations, giving him just the right place to be, so that any police officer who stops such a driver will immediately determine who the driver is or what the driver’s relationship is to road safety. As a proposaler, we do not see any difficulty in following the Government's opinion and changing the word "warning" into the word "remongering". This strips off a whole series of readings and warns that the government cannot support this law because the admonition is more correct than just a warning. I am also convinced that the actual impact on all transport participants will be very positive if we decide positively too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u128	Mr. Peter Wilphan. After him, Mr. Lucky Meh. Mr. Wilfan is giving up. Then Mr. Lucky Meh and after him Mrs. Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u129	In fact, in these extremely critical situations today, in which Slovenia, the Slovenian people, probably also, did not like to talk about one of the appearances of a meaningless law. But do we, ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members of Parliament, have in the legislative procedure any important law that goes by normal procedure? So that we can discuss it so that we can give our opinion, our contribution? So, is there enough time for us to discuss such things, in the form of a meaningless law going on on a regular basis? Here I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we take it by procedure, because we have enough time and also the opportunity to say a word in our relations, I do not mean that we have relations just here in the National Assembly, I am talking about our human relations. Look how we react as road users. We say that even if we drive past school five, ten kilometers, that it is not a serious offense because we were driving too fast, Mrs Majda Potter has told us how it is in some other countries that I have not been in. How we drive in Slovenia and how we drive in Austria, Germany or any other country. The point is that with all the interventions we've done, with the penalties we've done, these relationships, this aggression, which is reflected on the road in the relationship of the driver who controls the car and wants to force the advantage over every driver, in front of every pedestrian, everywhere, through red and any other traffic lights, it turns out that this aggression, incompetence, inhumanity is embedded in every marriage. Perhaps this is an attempt to make our interpersonal relations more complimentary. But so far, you, who have pleaded on the side of the position and also on the part of the Government, have determined that this law is not suitable for further consideration. However, it does not require any costs, we are demanding the treatment and corrections proposed by Mr Weber, which in fact mean that we can change the content of an action by one word. But we show spirit in our conduct. Are we ready to say good - bye, or are we ready to give priority, wait, do anything — we are not. I therefore propose that we give a positive green light further consideration so that the law may be rectified so that the Government can also make an effort. This is a regular legislative process at this time, which, once again, is extremely turbulent, critical, which would require many debates by Members and Members, but by listening to all those who have something to say in Slovenia in any area, including in the security field. I am grateful where people deserve commendation, and for punishing absolutely everything that can happen to you after the accident, but it happened and it was not as it would have been, even in road traffic and otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, with us the most responsible public function holders do not respect the legislative or judicial and all other branches of government, do not go to the courts, do not respect this, so we should be those who respect the laws that walk through the pedestrian crossings here before the parliaments, and should behave as it would be nice and right. Therefore, it would be right to discuss this and perhaps say some more good things about improving this law and all other laws that will contribute much to the maybe more friendly relations between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor. I see he's not here. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. She's not either. Mr. Ivan Hršak. He's not here either. Mr. Jože Tanko. Not at all. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Not at all. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. You don't want to? Oh, you already have. I'm sorry. Mr. Ivan Pišek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. All recognition to citizens who respect or respect, I am among them, legislation, but I think we live in the rule of law and that this is not our right, but it is our duty. I am sure that we cannot be rewarded for following some of the norms established in the democratic world. I would say to the proponents, if they want changes in this area, that they might consider a change in direction, that, I don't know, I mean, I'm talking about, the thing about the non-use of light in a day, it's not a offense because, I don't know, maybe it doesn't affect road safety or anything like that. I'm sure it's probably a bigger punishment if I get 250 euros in fines because I'm going to make a phone call while driving, because I'm going to put others at risk, and I'm actually happy if the police tell me in such a way that they're going to punish me, that I'm going to feel in my pocket, that maybe I won't do this again, because if they thank me very much and say, "Happy driving, try again without the phone, I'm going to rent it or not." It's worse to take into account some things where others are involved. This means that other road users are also at risk. If this were to be specified in some way, we might consider some kind of support or support in this direction. I'd like to give you another case. The law, whatever it is now or if it has been amended, will apply to all persons. I mentioned earlier in this direction, imagine a young driver who, after this proposal, could telephone, drive, change belts, without a seat belt, and eventually only get a warning when they get it, maybe after the 10th such offense, because he'll probably have a little luck, but not for the first time. I think the laws are to be respected. Earlier it was said that laws apply to help us live in an orderly environment. However, we can live in an orderly environment, only with respect to laws. Transport safety in Slovenia has improved considerably in recent years. If we ask ourselves why, we can probably find out that the reason for this is that a criminal policy has changed a few years ago and this may have come to the attention of citizens. I'm just defending some point of view, that's my personal opinion that punishment has to be brought up, not just a warning, because then it's not educational.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Mr Helmut Hartman, has the floor. Then there is the proposaler, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Vice President. Perhaps in this part I would only comment on the proposals put forward by the applicant in terms of changes, and thus somehow that the proposal itself would go in the direction that the Government proposes. Let me say in general that the proposal of the law is somehow a sui generis between the system of the law on offences, which on the one hand regulates the procedure of warning and on the other hand the procedure of warning. Regardless of what the content of the proposal itself is called, this is a systemic mismatch or a substantive problem where the current law is set up so that it has both the conditions in which warnings can be given and the conditions in which warnings can be given. Now, the motioner here mentioned that there are no specific preconditions that the police officer has to give a warning about. However, I should like to point out that when a police officer may give a warning in the proceedings, it is specified in Article 53 of the Law itself, in two cases, as has already been said when a minor offence has been committed, that the article 6a also explicitly states when it is. An offence of minor importance shall be considered to have been committed in circumstances which make it particularly light and which do not result in or will not result in a harmful effect. Which means that the procedure is fairly precise as to the extent to which an official authorised person may move when giving a warning. Furthermore, another criterion which has already been stated in the procedure should the authorised official consider that, in view of the importance of the act, a sufficient measure has been alerted. Here I would point out exactly what was said when the Government's opinion was presented that this consistency of the law itself, by changing not only the name, was at risk in the essence of the procedure itself. Which means that in changing or adding certain conditions, where it is not a sentence that is defined in the law as obtaining criminal points, it is a warning or now following a new proposal by the applicant for a reminder. Therefore, we certainly understand the proposal, which is in fact a good one to be rewarded. However, the proposal itself, which was presented both in the sense of a reminder and in the sense of a warning, does not fall within the context of the current system of the offence law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber has the floor as the first to be signed on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Well, I think it would be good if we listened very carefully. The fact is, if a saying were to remain in law, there would be a systemic problem as to how to implement the law on offences. I therefore stress that this systemic problem can easily be resolved, the warning of compensation with a warning and then all the procedures already provided for in the Offences Act under the law currently in force are under way, and there are no problems in implementing and understanding this law. In particular, I could in fact point out once again that it does not adhere to the Government's claim that the procedure for a declaration has been made clear. It depends on the officer's assessment. So, once you can have a good day, you have a bad day, someone you like, someone you don't like, someone you can even intentionally, I'll say, you try to monitor and then you react in a way that you prefer to initiate an offence procedure and not give a warning. And that's the problem. So, I think if we both listened, there could be a better text by eliminating this problem by giving a warning. At the same time, of course, I would like to stress once again that if we are to be able to get a warning from the court, it is still necessary to carry out this procedure. In the context of the procedure, when we establish judicial protection, the decision, at least I hope, is incontrovertible and the court will certainly examine whether the conditions are met so that a warning can be given or not. Even all those who have had doubts about whether or not someone is breaking the law and that we all have to respect the law 100 percent in all areas, I agree. If that were the case, then we would not need a third branch of power, courts, and matters would be very simple. But in this case, we are only talking about the fact that it is a real possibility that a safe driver can use, not every driver, a safe driver, to prove through judicial proceedings that the law allows him not to pay a fine for a minor offence, but to give a warning to the court. So this is a perfectly clear and truly coordinated procedure with our legal order and there will be no problem if this law is adopted. In general, once again, I agree, let us all respect 100 percent of the laws, and the courts will not be necessary. True, many laws are sometimes written in a way that we interpret them or understand them, not least in a different way. And that is why I am also reminding the Government that this procedure should be fixed, that it is not up to a policeman to decide whether to initiate the infringement procedure or to issue a warning. So we are very close to a common solution if we want to listen and really agree to improve the Law on Offences. And I am sure that the procedure initiated by MEPs and members of the Social Democrats supports this possibility in second reading. I would therefore point out once again that it is appropriate to continue this procedure, and it shows that, at least by the applicants, we are prepared very constructively and at all borders that are very important in the field of road safety, to adapt and improve this text so that the law is clear and can be understood by both road users and those who control traffic and have the opportunity to also sanction anyone who commits these offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Since I can see that there is no longer a desire to discuss it, I conclude it. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday 26 September 2012 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE POLICE LAW, RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u137	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me express my satisfaction that I can stand here again before you today and speak again about our proposal for this law on police powers, because this means that our proposal has received support both at first reading and at the Home Committee or the Home Affairs Committee. And that is a fact that further strengthens me in the belief that this proposal and such a law - I myself have said this since the start of the procedure - is appropriate, good and also urgently needed. But the last one, I think we're all united anyway. The proposal provides for two new police powers, namely the prohibition of participation in sports events and the suspension of travel to a sports event. Both, in the event of a possible saying, are, of course, following all the other consequences that are precisely described in our proposal, which today would not be discussed for a long and wide period of time and on the fact that practically everything has been said on this subject since the first reading and also on the Committee on Home Affairs. Our proposal also received the support of the Police Union. In the fact that the proposal is good and that the concept is not only so wrong, we are also strengthened by the opinion of the Government, which says that our proposal does not bring new solutions or nothing, which would not already include the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police, which is currently in inter-departmental coordination. And here's the big difference. These powers, which the Government does not substantively oppose, would enter into force if our proposal was adopted at the beginning of the next month. Here is the advantage of our proposal for a law, especially if I recall our very correct talks with the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the promises at the time of their submission to the parliamentary procedure. First, it was a May session this year, and then at the June session they announced that it would be in September. Not one or the other has happened, and with all due respect and understanding of the work that this ministry has done, I simply do not believe that this will happen in due course. And time is what's driving us so far. Some international sports competitions have already begun and others are at the door. Finally, it is now clear that Slovenia will also organise the European Basketball Championship next year in accordance with the agreement between the Government, the basketball association, the organizers and the FIBO International Basketball Federation, and this is certainly a competition that falls within the category of those high-risk competitions, clearly when we are talking about the fans' themes. And that is why it is so important that such a law, by the way, most European countries already have it, and that much more stringent than we would have it, we accept it as soon as possible and send a signal or message to the world that there will be no joke in Slovenia in this area. Then perhaps what would have happened before Euroliga's last football game in Maribor, when this time visiting fans in the city centre caused an incident that not only threatened them, but everyone who was nearby. The police, the special police unit, the cops on horseback, even the helicopter was involved. Fortunately, except for a few scratches, this time there was no worse damage. Who knows, but maybe if we already had the Fans Act in Slovenia, we would also know about it by the guest breakers and then we would do something different. They might not even have thought of doing something so inappropriate in Maribor. Our proposal has also raised concerns about the protection of human rights and freedoms. Here we must ask ourselves whose rights and freedoms are more important. Those rioters that are precisely due to their socially unacceptable behaviour need to be restricted, or those of most sports lovers who attend sports events come with good intentions to enjoy the beautiful, good performances of Slovenian athletes and teams in the company of friends, families and others. We also listen to comments over the course of the proceedings on the high additional costs that would result from the adoption of our proposal for a law. It involves additional training of police officers, preparation of relevant documentation and forms, computer applications and so on. I don't think that's such a big problem either, because the ministry will have to carry out the education in one way or another, and if part of that is done earlier, I don't think it will increase costs. However, there may be a more severe outbreak of violent fans or even more of them in the time of place, and we will not yet have a suitable marriage. There are also some concerns about the implementation of both powers in police work. I'm sure our police, the Ministry, justice, courts are more than capable of doing this in the shortest possible time. This is also because we have compared the proposal for a new mandate with the mandate that the police have had since the adoption of novel B, namely the prohibition of approaching a certain person, place or area, and the same concept has also been maintained with regard to the powers of the police to prohibit participation in sports events and to suspend travel to a sports event. I could list a few more arguments in favour of this proposal, but I will also keep some of them on tomorrow's explanations of vote. I thank you at the end of all those who have supported and also supported our proposal at the first reading, and also at the Committee on Home Affairs, and I call on you to do the same tomorrow and to do something good not only for those true fans and sports fans, but for the entire Slovenian sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! At its 4th meeting, the Committee of the Interior considered the amendment of the Police Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan. At the request of the Group of Members, the National Assembly held a general debate at its 5th regular session on the proposal for a law and then adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Complementary explanation of the bill was given by the first-signed motioner, Mr Peter Wilfan. The bill, as already mentioned, introduces two new police powers to ensure safety and order at sports events, namely the prohibition of participation in sports events and the suspension of travel to a sports event. The proposal stressed that the proposed law is primarily needed due to the Slovenian organisation of the European Basketball Championship next year, which will be one of the largest international competitions with a high level of security risk. However, the need for prior regulation is also highlighted by some incidents which could be prevented when properly regulated. With regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed regulation was controversial in view of excessive interference with certain human rights, the applicant considered that it was necessary to weigh out which human rights required greater protection, or of fans or all participants. Nor does the proposer accept the Government’s argument on the non-systematicity and non-necessity of regulation for the reason that it is preparing new system-wide legislation. In view of the fact that the season of sports competitions is under way, it is important for the applicant to regulate the field of cheerleading as soon as possible. Representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior Robert Marolt said that the Government was in principle in favour of the proposal for the legal regulation of these two new police powers, but said that the Ministry of the Interior was preparing a new system proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police, which, together with the draft law on organisation and work in the police, formed a substantive whole. They will both be attending next week's meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the view of the Government, it is non-systematic that only two articles of the current law on police should now be supplemented. Such a partial change would, in the opinion of the Government, also encourage additional unnecessary costs for the budget, associated with preparations for the implementation of the law. In addition to the non-systemic approach, the government also identifies some of the uncertainties and inconsistencies of the proposed provisions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the key points of their written opinion. It drew attention to some of the uncertainties and inconsistencies of the proposed solutions, including the unclear relationship between the procedure for determining the measures and the procedure for the offence or offence on the other hand, the lack of a procedure for determining the measures, the unclear condition of the plausibleness of the method of detection, the unclear solutions to the procedure before the investigating judge and the lack of a specific reporting procedure at the police station. Since some of the solutions related to the regulation of both new police powers constitute a significant intervention in human rights, the Legislative and Legal Service also proposes further reflection in these parts of the proposed regulation. The President of the Commission of the National Council for State Procedure presented a written opinion from the Commission, which does not support the bill. The president of the Police Union of Slovenia and the President of the Police Union of Slovenia, who expressed their support for the bill, also presented their opinion on the draft law. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, Members who expressed their support for the bill justified this on the basis of the need to regulate police powers as soon as possible to ensure safety at sports events. The Government's arguments that it is more reasonable and rational to wait for government law have not been confirmed, since given that the Government has not yet tabled the bill in the legislative procedure, it is not yet possible to predict when this will happen. They also confirmed that the season of sports events was already under way and that the legislator would send an important message to all participants in sports competitions related to their security aspect, so it is reasonable to support the law even if it is valid for only a few months or weeks and will later be replaced by a new one. Members of the SDS Group and DeSUS agreed with the content of the bill, but announced its support. Finally, before the time comes, let me say that they were not put into the amendment bill. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them by 8 votes to 7 with 7 votes. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on the Interior proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, and here I also welcome the mag. Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With regard to the proposal of the Group of Members and Members of the National Assembly with the first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan on the amendment of the Law on Police in Work relating to more effective action against violent fans, the Ministry of the Interior agrees in principle and supports the efforts of the proposer to regulate the two new police-authorised institutions. However, it opposes non-systematic changes for the following reasons. The proposal for a new law on police tasks and powers, which regulates police powers in a systematic and comprehensive manner, including the issue mentioned above, concerns more than 20 police powers or institutions, of which 9 new measures, was already adopted during the previous week at the regular meeting of the Government on Thursday. The proposal for a law on police tasks and powers, together with the law on the organisation and work of the police, which was adopted at the same meeting of the Government, forms a substantively linked whole. It is therefore totally non-systematic to complement only two articles of the current law on police because the law on police duties and powers is a substantive whole. In addition to legal solutions that are substantively identical with the proposed measures against fans, a new law on police duties and powers also provides for more precise regulation in a sub-legislative act, a regulation on police powers, and the proposed amendment to the police law you are considering is not appropriate. And here the matter remains open and unclear. It is true that the proposed solutions to the proposed amendment to the Police Law are summarized in accordance with the draft Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which the National Assembly had already discussed in its previous mandate and was then closed. In those preliminary discussions, we must not forget that more concerns and dilemmas have been raised, including the very important comments and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which are not taken into account in this proposal you are currently considering. In addition, I must reiterate that the regulation of new powers in the Police Act brings a number of unnecessary costs, and I can say double costs, which would otherwise be combined with preparations for the implementation of the new Systemic Law on Police Tasks and Powers. As the Member has already mentioned, the preparation of a comprehensive sub-legislative act, training of police officers, preparation of forms, preparation of records, then preparation of computer programmes, all of which should take place twice if this law were adopted, so more than 3 000 police officers should be educated twice, two times should be prepared computer applications, namely, for these two measures and, in particular, for 9 new measures or powers, or for comprehensive system legislation awaiting consideration in the National Assembly. In doing so, I must reiterate that these summary or proposed solutions to the law on police bring about and open up certain uncertainties, inconsistencies, and this bill also contains a series of inconsistent and legally questionable solutions, which, as I have already mentioned, is recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Here I would stress only that the proposal for a new system law on the tasks and powers of the police has practically taken full account of all the comments made so far by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In particular, I must point out that this bill, because the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service have not been taken into account and, therefore, have not been adopted by appropriate amendments on the home committee, has caused the police great difficulties in implementing it in practice. Moreover, we must not forget that there is also a very short, only 15-day deadline for the implementation of the law. It's practically impossible to train cops. In addition, we must not forget that, pending the adoption of the new Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, pronunciation measures, reasons and conditions should be enforced under one law, and different conditions and procedures should be laid down under the new Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, and therefore the question of the constitutional principle of equality and the application of the lesser regulation should be raised. That is why we are opposed to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 5th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment was received by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Wednesday 26 September 2012 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — First draft of the Act amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. Before I give the floor to the representative of the Government, I welcome here the Minister present and the Director of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u143	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In these five minutes available, I will try to present a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to certain laws on safe food. This is a very important area where the proposed legislation brings together the Veterinary Administration, the Phytosanitary Authority, the Directorate for Food Safety in Much of the Work and part of the Agricultural Inspectorate into a single institution, the status form of the body composed within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Department of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. Legislation in the Republic of Slovenia provides professional independence to bodies in the composition of ministries, in particular for the exercise of supervisory tasks. In particular, the tasks of the new institution will be: to prepare safety food regulations, to manage risks to human, animal and plant health, to carry out uniform official controls in the safe food chain, including monitoring of risks. The law also clearly sets out the so-called chain of command, which is essential for rapid and effective action in the event of threats to human, animal and plant health or consumer protection. The new administration will cover plant health, plant protection products, seeds, feed, animal health, animal protection, safety and quality of food of animal and plant origin, both in administrative and control work, with the exception of administrative tasks in the field of protection of agricultural crops and foodstuffs, the so-called quality schemes within the Directorate for Agriculture. This is why the proposed law is an intervention in the following 10 laws: the Law on Agriculture, on Wine, on Animal Health, on Veterinary Care, the Law on Veterinary Criteria, the Law on Blood, the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, the Law on the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, the Law on Mineral Fertilizers and the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. With the implementation of the proposed law, there will be approximately 415 public servants from four bodies to the new administration, with the following administrative and inspection tasks: the whole of today's VURS, the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, with 295 civil servants, of which 203 are official veterinarians, responsible for the preparation of regulations and the implementation of veterinary legislation, the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, 18 public servants preparing rules on plant protection products, plant health and seminary. It is then a major part of the Directorate for Food Safety, where today 24 civil servants, the preparation of safety and quality regulations for food and feed, except in part, as I have already mentioned, of quality schemes and the identification and registration of animals, including part of the inspectorate. We're talking about phytosanitary inspectors, where there are 26 inspectors today. Food quality inspectors. This requires 39 inspectors to carry out this control. In the case of agricultural inspectors, some details still need to be agreed, so we cannot talk about the number today. However, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as an organ in the composition remains normal. In this part we see opportunities for rationalisation, that it is a single strategy and to prepare legal bases for the implementation of specialised professional tasks, including official supervision within one institution. We believe that it is a great advantage for the new administration to provide for a single inspection carried out by the official veterinarians, phytosanitary inspectors, i.e. food inspectors. This is certainly a matter of more friendly access to those to be monitored in terms of the non-division of inspections in the yard, but these tasks can be much more uniform. It will certainly be easier to draw up common laws, including in implementing European legislation, so as not to have these so-called grey zones. We also expect advantages in the field of information technology. Also in the uniform way of naming laboratories. But most importantly, good communication with consumers is also important. And I think that this is also a key basic objective, namely to further strengthen the current, well-functioning area of safe food with a new amendment to the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Citizens, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u145	Well-known, distinguished Minister, Director, Ambassadors and Members of Parliament! At first glance, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Laws in the Field of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection acts as a small ZUJF. In fact, it is also a matter of rationalising services within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and it is a step towards more effective implementation of procedures within the Ministry. The explanation of the bill's proposal in one sentence is that it combines the area of safe food under one roof, one organisational unit, that is, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection. In the Citizens' List, we welcome such an approach and organisation. The paper safe food strategy has been waiting for us to implement it in an organisational sense since 2001. With this law, this strategy will be a step forward in food security next year. The preparation of legislation in the field of safe food and related supervision is currently divided into as many as four bodies within the Ministry. Food security is an important priority for each country. The biggest problem with current regulation is fragmentation. In practice, it even happened that different inspections had different opinions. But the food producer didn't know how to act. The new administration will allow for uniform legislative procedures and comprehensive risk management. The official control laboratory and the national reference laboratory will be unified. Data will be the basis for linking and strengthening the current risk assessment system, food chain information systems, and a uniform and transparent way of communicating with business operators and consumers will be provided. Given that a single work programme will be provided for all inspectors who control the food chain, the key added value that the draft law brings to our legal order by combining inspection services that control the safety and quality of food, animal health and plant protection, as well as economic legislation in this field. Let me briefly take away the advantages of the law for individual entities. So, what do farmers or business operators get? They will be burdened with fewer checks, in the future they will communicate with one institution instead of four. What does the consumer gain? A greater guarantee that food in the food chain is safe. The new administration will also represent an information post on consumer information and risks. And in the end, what do public finances and our budget gain? There'll be no more duplicating. By linking as many as four independent information systems into one, there will also be better use of both human resources and financial resources. Since we are advocates of rationalisation and simplification in the National Gazette, while at the same time amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection also introduces a single entry point for the food producer, we will support the law in the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u146	Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Zveglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u147	Good day to you all! Your Honor! With the signing of the Treaty on Slovenia, we have also committed ourselves to increasing the importance of safe food, protecting human health and improving consumer protection. We have committed ourselves to the implementation of the principle from field to table and from villa to fork, which would take place in a unified approach to the preparation of legislation on safe food and with more effective control of the agri-food industry. This can only be achieved by combining the entire area of safe food under one organisation, which must strive for greater efficiency and greater safety for consumers. Since the word is not a horse, we have moved from words to actions by the coalition partners, the Government and, to the greatest extent, the competent Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, so today we are just before the establishment of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection. As it is said, the first step towards bringing together the entire area of safe food was the coalition contract's commitment. This was followed by a decision on 23 February this year by which the Government decided to bring together the Department of Agriculture and the Environment, the Veterinary Administration, the Phytosanitary Authority, the Directorate for Safe Food and part of the Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. Since such a reorganisation cannot be carried out solely by a decision of the Government, the competent ministry has decided to draw up laws of some kind of mini ULJF which amends the provisions of the sectoral laws governing the competence of individual authorities, following the newly merged Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret the fact that there was no consensus between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Health in the inter-departmental coordination of the new administration, so that the whole control of the food chain would actually be brought together in one institution. However, food safety issues in the final food chain segment and safety issues in food supplements and food for specific nutritional purposes, which are subject to the supervision of the Health Inspectorate and also to a large extent to the most vulnerable population groups, such as children, young people, patients and elderly, have a high weight and a high public health significance. It is therefore justified to retain the powers of the Ministry of Health or the Health Inspectorate in the opinion of our Group of Members. However, the reasons for maintaining nutrition control under the Health Inspectorate are sufficiently justified. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection, resulting in the establishment of the Directorate for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection, will rationalise work in the administrative field and in the field of official control. A single risk management strategy will be developed and a way of communicating with business operators and consumers will be simplified. In view of the unification of official controls and the pooling of laboratories and human resources, the number of inspections carried out by the Slovenian People's Party will be reduced in the case of operators, but these reviews will be more thorough and more efficient and the transparency of the results will be increased. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendments are administratively burdensome for both agriculture and processors, as instead of three entry points, one entry point is being established, with all doubts about the competence of an individual body and also the mutual disputes about jurisdiction between authorities falling away, as it will be known who is responsible for what. This is good for everyone, for the farmer, for the processor, for the country and, of course, for the consumer. All foods intended for human consumption must be safe and healthy. Pika. Trust is a wonderful thing, but control is also needed. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we assess that the proposed law on amendments and additions to certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u148	Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u149	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. I welcome all of this, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State! The areas of safe food, veterinary and plant protection should be regulated. The fact is that the field of safe food is increasingly important for consumers and the public at large. It is the country which is obliged by the preparation and adoption of appropriate food legislation to enable consumer protection and to provide a legal basis for consumers to be informed of the origin and quality of the food they eat. Food safety means providing such food that is not harmful to human health and takes into account any likely, immediate short-term or long-term effects on the health of the person who eats the food and also on the later generations. That quality food is one of the most important aspects of human health and quality life, we are not only aware in Slovenia, but also elsewhere, especially when the food crisis in the 1990s, when dioxins in food, mad cow diseases and similar threats to human health, revealed some of the weaknesses of existing European legislation in the field of safe food. This led the European Commission to place the promotion of a high level of food safety among the priority short-term objectives. To this end, it was necessary to revise the existing requirements of food law and to strengthen control systems throughout the food chain. The first direct result of these activities was the adoption of the so-called White Paper on Food Safety, which represents an integrated approach in the field of food law. This means the inclusion of the entire food chain, trade between Member States and trade with third countries. For the production of safe food, food business operators are primarily responsible. The competent authority shall, by means of national control programmes, be responsible for the official control of compliance with the requirements of food law regarding the conditions for the provision of safe food. Consumers are an important link in the chain because they have a significant impact on food safety through proper storage, handling and preparation. Legislation must consistently cover all areas of the food chain, feed production, primary production, processing, storage, transport and retail sales. The traceability of feed foods and their ingredients must be ensured in such a way that their withdrawal or withdrawal is possible where there is a risk to consumer health. The basis for preparing legislation on safe food is a risk analysis consisting of risk assessment, risk management and risk communication. Temporary risk management measures may be taken because of the potential for adverse reactions to human health or if there is a scientific uncertainty about the impact on health. It's a precautionary principle. Our country is also trying to establish the best and most effective control of food safety and to draw up appropriate legislation in order to achieve the objective. One step towards this goal is to propose the law before us. With this proposal, four existing authorities covering the control of safe food will be merged with the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection Board as of 2013. The proposal for an amendment to certain laws in the field of food safety, veterinary and plant protection provides for the reorganisation of the current four bodies: Veterinary Administrations of the Republic of Slovenia, the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Directorate for Food Safety and the Works of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, in order to bring together the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection and both separate administrations. Thus, within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, rationalisation will be achieved by reducing the number of Directorates and Authorities in the composition, effective monitoring and ensuring the implementation of the Safe Food Policy in Slovenia. The gap between the agricultural policy and the institution responsible for the protection of human health will only be established by this law, thus preventing conflicts of interest between promoting food production and controlling food production. In the Group of the Democratic Party, we support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u150	New Slovenia delegation group, Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u151	Dear colleagues, my fellow President, Madam Director of VURS, Mr Minister! Safe food is primarily in the interest of us who enjoy it. Providing such food that is not harmful to human health and takes into account any likely effects on the health of the person who eats the food, as well as on later generations. So this is a very important area. Food safety may be affected by several factors, such as the way animals are reared, the new production and processing procedures, the rapid development of trade, imports, exports, changes in consumer lifestyle, the trend in the increased consumption of food for direct consumption, which is also called "ready to eat", and it is also important how we treat and store consumers with food we already have at home. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the area covered in the Republic of Slovenia is already quite well regulated at a relatively high level, but we can do our best because nothing is so good that it could not be even better. In February 2012 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the merger of VURS, FURS, the Directorate for Food Safety and part of the Inspectorate dealing with safe food into a single institution called the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. This will provide a more precise separation between the agricultural policy and the institution responsible for protecting human health, which will prevent conflicts of interest between promoting food production and controlling food production. In addition, some shortcomings in current legislation will be addressed. The proposal will also allow, inter alia, the establishment of a comprehensive horizontal and in-depth approach to monitor, assess and manage individual risk phenomena at national level, the central implementation of the monitoring activities currently under the responsibility of the different supervisory authorities, and the elimination of duplication of powers in the control and difference in the criminal policy of the supervisory authorities. The draft law will be supported by Members and Members of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u153	Good day to you all! Your Honor! Proposal for a position of Positive Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of safe food. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia states in its paper that it is an integrated approach to ensuring food safety, which means the integration of all areas that directly or indirectly affect food safety in the food chain from field to consumer. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia is aware of the critical importance of food safety control and we fully agree with the comprehensive approach. Also, the coalition contract, specifically in the field of safe food, promises, "we will bring together the entire area of safe food under the auspices of an organisational unit". The system of provision of safe food must be efficient, uniform and most safe for consumers, but not distributed among several competent authorities, and thus imprecise. We will also merge all inspection services covering the entire area of safe food into a single inspection. It will operate within the framework of the above-mentioned organisational unit or independently, directly under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. For the purposes of the inspection services, we will organize the official laboratories in a uniform manner. Keep going. In the field of information systems related to safe food, a consolidation and integration of all separate but similar systems will be introduced. However, the proposed law on amendments and additions to certain laws in the field of safe food does not suffice with these guidelines. It makes it clear that this is not a comprehensive and systematic regulation of the area. This is mainly a single approach within one sector or resource. The area of safe food remains divided among the departments, says the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, both in the administrative field and in the official control of risk management, in communication with business operators and consumers, in information systems and in laboratory diagnostics. Inspection services remain divided between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. However, the merger of inspection services within the Ministry of Agriculture is taking place in the opposite direction, in a way that, according to our assessment, is seriously threatened by the quality control of this area, which has at least so far worked properly. Previously, specialized inspectors are now joining up with some kind of superintendent food inspector who has all-encompassing powers. We find it difficult to believe that such a complex area can be managed without inspectors specialising in specific areas. Official laboratories and information systems continue to be materially divided, which means that the comprehensive treatment of this problem will not be in any aspect of the control of safe food, although on the other hand we are witnessing the proposal to reorganise laboratories belonging to health care institutions. In Positive Slovenia, we are also against the principle of amending laws under the omnibus system. Our view is that the system creates needless transparency in the regulation of an area of national importance – the protection of human health. We always have to take into account those that matter to matter. In this case, they are importers, exporters or all those engaged in the production, processing and transport of food and feed. For them, this omnibus is completely incomprehensible and opaque and makes it impossible for them to know the legal order of the area. If we want to regulate the area systematically and comprehensively, at least at the declaration level, the objective of this coalition and the objective of this minister, a system-wide law on food security should be drawn up which will regulate the organisation and supervision of this area in a comprehensive manner. It is also clear that the relevant cooperation of the professional public has not been ensured, as evidenced by the reactions of professional and interest associations and trade unions, which are also the result of today's debate. In our view, the proposal for a novel is another example of how the current authority is shaping individual institutions in the image of influential individuals within its own departments. Putting political, loyal people in key places and thus subjugating all social systems and ensuring control over all of society's spendings is fundamental and solely leading the operation of this government and coalition. This bulldozer human resources campaign can be monitored from the first day of our appointment. Large-scale reorganisations by ministries have also been aimed at transferring staff, which continue to be carried on by bodies in the composition of public institutions. And if the National Assembly approves the proposed law, we can now confidently tell who will lead the new united body. This is also confirmed by the envisaged conditions for this situation. We will not support this bill from all the above-mentioned proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u154	Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Republic, and this has also been enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, that the system of ensuring safe food must be effective, uniform and most secure for the consumer. In addition to the general objectives of ensuring safe food, food safety and the promotion of a balanced diet, the Coalition Treaty provides that attention will also be paid to bringing together the area of all safe food to be organised under the auspices of an organisational unit. Today there is a law that follows a goal that we set ourselves six months ago. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment proposes that the area of safe food, veterinary and health of plants be organised in one organisational unit as a body within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which would be called the Directorate of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. It is proposed that the tasks identified so far in the current Regulation on Compositional Organs and carried out by the Veterinary Administration, the Phytosanitary Authority, the Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment Inspectorate and in the second Regulation, be carried out in a single organisational unit. Of course, the abolition of the Directorate for Safe Food is essential as a result of the reorganisation of four organizational units. In the context of the envisaged reorganisation, it is also envisaged to transfer part of the competences of the current Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, in part of the inspection tasks relating to the exercise of official control in the field of food of animal origin and the merger with the control of foodstuffs of animal origin carried out by the official veterinarians in the exercise of VURS powers. This pursues the objective of ensuring uniform control of the safety of all foodstuffs in accordance with the objectives of the Coalition Treaty. Such a solution is also in line with European food law. This is what Regulation 178 and Regulation 828 are talking about. The chairman of the newly established Food Safety Authority will therefore lead and decide on the preparation of the Safe Food Strategy, prepare legislative acts, professional solutions, authorize accredited laboratories to analyse food safety samples to support inspection work. In this context, he will also lead inspection services in the field of food safety control. However, the proposed solution does not include control of safe food in catering facilities, in institutional establishments of public nutrition, control of drinking water and materials that come into contact with food, nor food supplements. This type of surveillance remains in the health sector. Practice and experience will show if this solution is most rational. However, the proposed control in the food chain ensures effective control in the agri-food sector in accordance with the principle of land to the table, which in practice means control of the whole activity from primary production to processing and transport. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed law follows the principle of prudent use of funds, and in particular the aim is to achieve the greatest possible impact in the implementation by law of certain tasks within the single body. The area of quality food security is closely linked to agriculture, so we must all work together to preserve agricultural land, to ensure the economic status of the farmer, to promote processing areas, to preserve development and farms, to take measures to reduce agricultural growth, and to implement measures in the food supply chain to establish fair relations between participants involved in food production. We need to ensure the promotion of home-grown food, which is certainly better and safer than imported food. All of this means that agricultural policy measures and the combination of specific environmental measures must take care of and accelerate the production of domestic, quality and safe food. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the adoption of this law will have positive consequences for the Ministry, which will only ensure the resolution of ongoing matters and communication with European institutions, with national representatives of interests and with consumers. The merger means simplification in operation and a comprehensive approach and simplification of supervisory practices throughout the field for the parties. We will also unanimously support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u156	Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u157	Dear President, Honourable Members and Members, Dear Minister, Dear Director, a lovely greeting! I believe that the functioning of the safe food chain is not an area, because political parties would be a fight between themselves, a political struggle, because we are not looking at political parties here, but at our parents, friends, children, whom we all want to ensure that food does not endanger them when we talk about safe food. Secondly, we are probably aware that the security that the country currently provides through its institutions in Slovenia is European over average. This has provided the last inspection, the last two or three years, which are visited too often by the new EU countries in particular, and often by some of the old members, where the affairs are absent. So, the system is working at this point, but it's not working optimally. What, then, are the reasons for the change in legislation? The first reason for agriculture and nutrition is always and often new directions and directives of the European Union. In this area, it must be said that the regulation of institutions within the European Union is very different. In the last major affair in the European Union, this is the contamination of lettuce with the pathogen Escherichia coli, Germany found that the worst country that we trust very much in Slovenia is working. It shall have three stages of action that the person responsible shall not be liable to the person responsible. On this basis, last year the Commission, at least as Commissioner Dalli announced, decided to scan operations in all European countries and on the basis of some more binding guidance on how the Food Security Institution should be regulated in European countries. In the European Union, this is usually a process of a year, two or even three. This will also happen to us in a year, two or three, and then, like all other European countries, we will probably have to adapt the system of safe food to the stronger orientations of the European Union, but that is not the case now. Another reason why the system of safe food is changing may be the presence of an affair. Here we can see that those who are filled with the mouth of good functioning of countries, from one large country, from another large country, from another large country, from a third large country, have much more affairs than in Slovenia, where we do not have any food affairs at all. We also note that the Slovenian state authorities react quickly. Sometimes it is obvious that too fast, too strong, too harsh, but it benefits consumers. So the system works, but it's not optimal. The next reason why things can change is also simply to make it easier for the public to carry out its business, from which we have citizens and citizens once again benefit. What we need to know is that at the moment two relatively separate systems operate in Slovenia. One system is a system of the green food chain, food of plant origin, and the other is a system of the red chain, i.e. food of animal origin. To this point, these systems are somewhat separate, although they are subject to the same Ministry, sometimes overlap, which is also the reason for the merger of these two systems. In doing so, we have the fact that whether food is safe or not is affected by health care, which is also not good. Today’s arrangement solves some problems. It solves the problem of sometimes parallel operation of a chain of green and red safe food system, and this is good. It does not, however, work in an area where the most open questions are, where the point of contact is between the safe food chain and health care. In most European countries, this point is very clearly defined. When a person eats food, from here on out, there's good health. By the time it's on the table and we eat it, food is safe, it guarantees a system of safe food as a single system. In Slovenia the system works additionally for two or three reasons, I think. The first reason is quite unusual – our system comes from the former Yugoslavia. Although many years have passed since then, in the current system the state has guaranteed that the food was medically appropriate. This means more control and, in particular, a substantial number of laboratory investigations. This, under the terms of good practice, has also remained in the genes of current inspectors. From this we have the benefit of Slovenia and Slovenia, the European consumer on this side is not as safe as Slovenia. That's why the system works. The system also works well because, in particular, the red food chain has been under considerable pressure to enter the European Union. They have done their job well, and it is also impossible to read anything. It is also in the system of safe food in plants. If we remember the successes of the last two or three years, he's proved that he can work. So both systems are working. What we do not understand about the Social Democrats is the following. In recent years, the Slovenian administration has seen quite a few good systems of food control in the European Union. She looked at Bavaria, looked at the neighbouring country, and she looked at the system currently in force in the European Union as a model, which is the Finnish system. For we often want to be like Finland in the area of agriculture and nutrition. Finland is slightly larger, forested and also farmed in a rather sonar way. The Slovenian delegation, which visited Finland at the time, also referred to the Finnish system as the best, as I recall. The Finnish system is based on the unity of all institutions. Finland, before moving to a single agency for safe food, which is typical of Northerners, took enough time in the shade to discuss possible solutions with employees, with expertise and also with neighbouring countries. When they came to a common position supported by the staff, supported by the profession, they went to set up an agency. The Finnish Food Safety Agency became operational in practice in 2007. I still remember the words of the Finnish Minister responsible when she told me in 2010 that after three years she finally realized that the Agency was operating. What do I mean by that? What I'm trying to say is that the system of safe food is extremely complex, a lot of skills are needed, a lot of knowledge. With such a system, official handball is not in place, and if we ask ourselves whether this solution is long-term, whether this solution is similar to Finnish, the answers are different as we wish. Therefore, we cannot support the Social Democrats of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u158	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Get Mrs. Maria Plevčak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! With regard to the involvement of the professional public in this proposal, I would like to reiterate that the Safe Food Strategy was adopted in 2001. Many expert groups in the department have also dealt with this issue. In the meantime, quite a few ministers have changed, they have studied models in European countries, and we only get a single institution now. I will try very plasticly to illustrate some of the practices or anomalies that have taken place and, in my opinion, are being abolished by the new law. If we start at the barn, in the red food, in the numbering of animals or ear numbers. In the current system, these numbers are controlled by as many as two inspectors; agricultural and veterinary. Why? Because two individual bodies have implemented European legislation into our legal order. In practice, it even happened that the penalty for offenders was different. With the unified administration of these anomalies, there will be no more. Come in. Wheat is feed. What kind of anomaly did the aflatoxin case bring to the plan? The feed in the warehouse was the subject of a veterinary inspector in the cage, but if they wanted to look at the wheat in the field, the farm inspector had to come. Please, is this an example of an effective public sector that we have set ourselves a goal? Let's just say the Cranium sausage is finally going to be sampled by one inspector himself after the new one. Now the veterinary inspector has taken care of the safety and since the crane sausage is also in the quality scheme, it has been sampled or controlled by the agricultural inspector from this qualitative point of view. This anomaly also removes this bill and, in my opinion, simplifies procedures, reduces the number of checks, and I cannot help but vote that this law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u160	Lady Maria Plevčak is not here. Mag. Leila Hercegovac has the floor. Then get ready, Mr. Janko Weber. [[He won't be here.]] After him, Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u161	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a safe food law under consideration is not optimal. Why? It is not optimal because it does not meet the conditions of the government coalition, but it is that we will combine the entire areas of safe food under the auspices of one organisation, that we will join all inspection services and that there will be an unification and unification of all so far separate and similar systems. Remember that safe food is a food supply that is suitable for human consumption and is not harmful to health, i.e. immediate and short-term and long-term effects of food on the health of the person who eats the food, as well as for later generations likely cumulative toxic effects. Here food safety must be separated from food safety and must not be equated because this means that the provision of sufficient food produced at home or imported or purchased on the European Union market is sufficient. Finally, healthy food should be separated, meaning a balanced diet according to the daily needs of individual populations; that is, children, elderly people, athletes and so on. In the Republic of Slovenia, the regulation of safe food is currently divided between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Veterinary Administration, but of course all three inspections and inspections are present. Therefore, the implementation of a single and comprehensive strategy is a national strategy that is dispersed. Multiple transpositions and regulations are carried out, a comprehensive horizontal and in-depth approach is not established, monitoring is not centrally regulated, but dispersed, there is a duplication of competences, communication is not real and reference laboratories are not. The vision is intended to provide an independent, uniform, transparent and efficient institution with a view to ensuring safety in the food chain farm-to-table, including ensuring the protection of human, animal and plant health and the protection of consumer interests, to gain a high level of confidence from Slovenian consumers in meeting the criteria for safe food in the Republic of Slovenia. The objectives are to be a single and comprehensive strategy, uniform legislation, uniform official controls, single laboratories, linked systems, linked information systems and a uniform way of communication. Why isn't this optimal solution in the proposed law? Because it is not a comprehensive regulation, because inspection services are divided, because official laboratories remain segregated, because the cooperation of the professional public has not been ensured, and ultimately what is always evident by the current government, the transfer of personnel and the background always shows any other purpose. So the proposed law is not optimal, it is not the right one, and it is difficult to support it, because it does not meet what we need in the Republic of Slovenia to be aligned with the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u162	Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Greetings from me. The official position of Positive Slovenia has already been expressed by colleague Ficko, so I would not repeat this, but I would say my concerns, which mainly relate to the inspection. We have heard: merger within the Ministry of Agriculture, separate from the Ministry of Health – for the time being or as envisaged. I'm a little concerned about this merger mainly because of the work that talks about genetically modified organisms. In fact, I would like more expertise in the inspection, of course without anomalies than the colleague mentioned. Those are precedents, I think we're all thinking the same way. Why am I worried? Because food is genetically altered — so to speak, organisms are relatively new when we think in decades. As a result, we do not have some longitudinal studies to discuss the consequences. Here I think certain things even need to be anticipated. We have experienced the surprise of the Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease and similar, which were news to us. In principle, not because some purely anthropological things were then passed on to veterinary matters. In fact, this would be a problem with the merger of inspectors and their competences. Once again, with all due respect to the comments that were in place. One more thing, if I were talking about the welfare of this merger, then I wouldn't personally refer to the mini-ZUJF as a reference, because the mini-ZUJF is not some kind of reference for me. Finally: before I finish there is another illogicality which here speaks of organizational autonomy; it is said to be directly under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I imagine my independence is different; it's not under the cover of anything. But a key consideration goes to inspection services, especially in relation to genetically modified food or organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u164	Mr Jože Veliki has the floor to prepare, please, Mr Franz Jurša or if he will not be a magician. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Director, Members and Members of Parliament! The law under consideration is just another rule that does not touch on the regulation of the issue in the title of the law. Its objective is only to cover the recruitment and concentration of political power and the impact of certain politically appropriate senior staff at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. While its content affects 10 laws in the field of food production and quality control, it is only by changing the names and transferring certain powers from the current operators to other operators of the country's food safety policy. That the law itself has no specific substantive weight, the proposaler himself says in the introduction of the proposal, as it clearly states that the current system of control of production and quality control of safe food in the Republic of Slovenia is appropriate and in accordance with all the rules in the European Community. Moreover, the control services of the European Community have also confirmed an appropriate level of quality in food quality control activities from villas to forks. The applicant himself also points out that there is no prescribed form of organisation at European Community level of the services concerned with the quality of production and the appropriate quality assurance of food produced, since these institutions within the European Community are written between the different national authorities and independent institutions. The substance of the law is to rationalise the operation of all services associated with the provision of safe food to our consumers at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. To this end, the applicants would combine the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Directorate for Safe Food at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and part of the agricultural inspection. This would, however, leave the function of two directors of the bodies in the composition and this would be the right argument for the rational functioning of the new administration. Despite the tendency to combine services that are supposed to take care of safe food, it does not provide for the association of the Ministry of Health's material-related work, this is the packaging that comes into contact with food, but also includes within VURS the area of health care, such as small animals that have no connection to safe food. Despite its written purpose, the law does not in any way distinguish the management of agricultural policy from control over the production of safe food, which is particularly evident within VURS, where veterinary policies, legislative functions, the management of public animal health and official supervision have been under the same roof for years and are certainly in conflict of interest. The new law doesn't solve these problems. The problem is evidenced by the example of the labelling and registration of bovine animals, as it has been repeatedly found by agricultural inspectors on the ground that certain breeders on agricultural holdings also manage unmarked animals. Although the system of labelling and registration has been introduced, as we know, precisely for health reasons when BSE occurs. The same unmarked animals have been vaccinated and artificial insemination by official veterinarians, who have not even notified the competent inspectors of non-labelled irregularities. According to them, they had no interest in harming customers who paid for their services. One of the stated objectives of the law is also to separate the conflict of interest between promoting food production and exercising control over food production. I also believe that food production cannot be meaningfully separated from food quality control. However, the proposal in question and the amendment of the Act on plant protection products make matters substantively confusing and illogical. The law under consideration, for example, places the topic of mineral fertilisers in the field of food production without consideration, while it places the whole area of plant protection products on the subject of safe food. This area also includes inspections of the testing of sprinklers, marketing of plant protection products in pharmacies, compliance with conditions, control of the use and storage of such products in users. This is true in the field of food production with the same weight as the use of mineral fertilisers and, on the other hand, the reckless use of mineral fertilisers may also have an impact on the quality of food production. These are leftovers of heavy metals, nitrates in food and the like. The area of plant protection products is also not only the control of residues of plant protection products in the production of plant food. In short, confusion and impossibility. The law is intended to contribute to more rational official controls, which should, inter alia, prevent the duplication of field inspections. That's not true. I'm quoting the case again. Food production control has been carried out by agricultural inspectors in plant food and feed producers so far. On one visit, the review covered the control of the use of plant protection products in the manufacturer, hygiene in the production of feed, the labelling of livestock, the control of fertilisers, the use of fertilisers and the like. This review will be carried out by the food inspector from now on, and the farm inspector is likely to be an official veterinarian. So, where's rationalization? Does that mean forgiveness? It follows from all of this that the provisions of the new law are essentially empty, incomplete and do not solve the problem that is being addressed. At the time of stagnation, I believe that the spread of tax money for individual staff appetites should be stopped and only consistently and effectively implemented in a tested and appropriate manner. The European Commission inspection also assessed the existing method of control as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u166	Mr. Franz Jursha. I see he's not here. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! No doubt we're making progress. We have begun to adopt legislation on a regular basis, and this is it. This is good, because it is an important law that certainly makes progress, it has some good solutions, but I expect that the proposal that will be presented to us for a second reading, for a second reading, will contain those useful comments that have been made by Members and Members now, as well as by the professional public. I am sure that Minister Bogovic will take into account some of the very correct comments made by former Minister of the Jews and that we will cross the border once, that it does not matter who is right, but what is right; and in this law, let us implement what is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u168	The word has magic. Majda Potrat, please prepare yourself for Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! I cannot go down to the level of professional debate that some have before me. But I know about healthy food, and I love to swear on it, and I care for those who are given safe and healthy food. But the bill opens up some other issues that I would like to discuss at the general level. We have already met several times in this mandate with proposals for a law that affects various other laws from one law, and whenever this has happened, we have concluded that the consequences of such interventions have often not been sufficiently conceived and have not been sufficiently studied and not all the consequences of such changes have been carefully tested. The question that comes to me is why should such a procedure be pursued if, in the opinion of some who actually know, this bill would not bring about or bring about significant improvements and would still leave open certain things that should be open in that law or in that area, which is not covered by this proposal of law. This is all about health and health. I can't decide if there are other purposes back here, but I can say another experience. We often hear that – and I quote myself – I think some 128 worlds and organs have been disbanded to reduce the cost of operating: reorganizations by horizontal, things change completely, they combine not to say spill. The question, once again, which comes to mind here, is, will these changes really have such an effect that they will bring better – what is also meant to be – or what has actually been so unacceptable so far that it has to change, are we really changing those things that are urgently needed? In fact, one of the views I have also read is that so far there have been no serious threats, or errors, or any such. So, logically, I wonder whether I would rather not be able to improve the existing one and then think thoroughly about how this could be done further without haste, without undue doubt, so to speak, who open up to individuals, to find really what will lead us to the best solutions. In Slovenia, however, I think we have a number of very high-quality institutions that have already done a lot in individual areas of providing safe and healthy food, but this is also an area where many interests cross. I recall, for example, at least one constitutional opinion which reads that it restricts market interest when we banned, for example, in the primary school law, that there should be refrigerated cabinets or some other cabinets with sweet drinks or as many as possible in school premises, and the Constitutional Court ruled that this is not against the Constitution because the proportionality of both measures or rights is necessary – the right to healthy food and the right to free economics were weighed there. That way, I would prefer to be alone in the society of those who would call for reflection on whether this is now absolutely necessary and whether we already have all the parameters to say that what is written in the bill will also have enough good effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. In front of Mr Horvato, Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. In fact, the list was mislabeled so you wouldn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u171	Hello again, everyone. I'm actually the one thing that bothers me the most is that we promise one thing, we make the other one. We're saying that we're going to take a comprehensive approach, that we're going to systematically solve the matter, even as they have, let's say, in some other countries. Above all, it is the independence and independence of the agency as an agency. A fellow Jew used to talk about Finland. Even in Austria, the matter is almost as similar as I could read it. It includes veterinary medicine even under the Ministry of Health, Feed and Plants under the Ministry of Agriculture, and, most importantly, the agency is independent, in 100% ownership of the country, and under which all authorities, all inspections – everything that belongs to this department – are then united. I think this is about independence and independence. We are now under the Ministry of Agriculture, which is watching over farmers, over the food processing industry – this means that one kind is self-control. How are you now going to put within the Ministry of Agriculture a matter which may sometimes be of interest to the food processing industry, on the disgraceful pillar? In fact, there is no independence or autonomy in this whole matter. Also in the analysis carried out by the Court of Auditors, there was a conflict of interest between producers, processors and consumers' interests. If we had already wanted the consumer to be truly insured, we would have drawn up a system law where we would actually have an independent agency. I personally believe that, regardless of the adoption or non-admission of this law, our consumer will not be more secure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u172	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Maja Dimitrovski ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I warmly welcome you, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister, Director General of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia! I submit that the implementation of the safe food policy in the Republic of Slovenia is of paramount importance. This area actually touches all of us; each of the 2 million Slovenes and Slovenes. It seems to me that this area, which is now being addressed within the framework of legal matter, is extremely important. There was something, I closely monitored, extremely good debates, and I am glad that the Minister has written down some comments from Members and Members. Finally, the legislative process is actually starting and, through the legislative procedure, it will be possible that this text, this proposal of the law, if necessary, will be substantially improved. At the outset, I would like to express my support for this law. I don't mind if one marriage interferes with 10 marriages. I'm going to make a comparison here again with the Austrians we like to compare with. They made two savings packages this spring and reached into 92 laws and the country did not collapse; on the contrary, they are making progress! I will also touch on food issues myself, perhaps with a slightly different aspect. Slovenia is one of the most open countries in the field of agrifood in the European Union. We have the largest share of food consumed from imports, and all other countries are very well protected by their agricultural economy, and this will be avenged in the future. Do not mind the dramatic tone of this forecast, but I firmly believe that in the future, when we pay more for less quality food, which will be dumped on the Slovenian market by great multinationals. There are several reasons why we are so open. Openness is marked here by a negative sign, and the fact is that we have a very competitive food processing industry around us; let's look at Italy, Austria and Hungary. For Slovenian food products, therefore, it is not a problem of competitiveness, but of the low conservation drive of the nation, if I may quote here my cousin Agrarian economist Dr. Aleš Kuhar. So we have a low-preservation drive. One of the most critical aspects is that Slovenian food loses its seat on shelves due to illicit practices. Foreign competitors want to reduce the power of domestic suppliers to the extent that they begin to dictate market conditions. When this happens, they start to lower quality and raise prices. In neighbouring countries, there are large meat buyers who, prior to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, have prepared for entry into our market and have significantly strengthened their capacity to defeat domestic meat processors. The irregular situation in Slovenia also helped. Perhaps the word on organic agriculture, which I welcome, is in the optimal proportion in relation to all agricultural production. Ecological agriculture is not a solution to Slovenian agriculture, because it is even more complicated than conventional agriculture and will remain marginally within conventional agriculture. Slovenian food is better quality and safer than imported food. I wonder why cheap food doesn't turn on the red light in our heads that something must be wrong with food like that. The answer to the question why Slovenians get the goods of the multinationals of the poorer quality is simple: the multinationals dictated to our Grosis what goods they would sell before Slovenia enters the European Union. Since there were still customs duties, the importer bought the weaker goods, nailed the customs, so that the final purchase was only slightly above zero. Following the entry into the European Union, customs duties have fallen but the quality of the goods and the price has not changed. A profit that had previously gone to the country has now been distributed by the importer and the multinational. Colleagues and colleagues, allow only one piece of information that has moved me, and I have read about the amount and value of discarded food in Europe before the day I prepared for today's debate. This is a research conducted by the institution Wrap West and Resources Action Programme. It says that it is part of discarded food that could be avoided – that is, food that is discarded by households and that could be avoided – and represents a value of about €14 billion per year or an average of €565 per household per year. This is the data for the 27 European Union and is for 2010. Here I have the idea and the claim that food should be treated as one of the most important values. We know how to deal with values. There was a time when the Slovenian proverb, which we heard several times from the greatest Slovenian Anton Martin Slomšk, who died last day 150 years ago and goes, "If the bread falls on your floor, pick it up and kiss it." Is that still valid today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr Peter Wilphan was next reported to the debate. I don't know if he's going to talk. He won't. Mr. Darko Jazbec. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Jana Jenko. [[She's not here.]] Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko. Next up is Mr. Roman Žveglich. Get ready, Mr. Ivan Hršak. [[He's not here.]] Then it's mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. What is not much to add, but perhaps some things still need to be clarified. Solutions certainly go in the direction of less bureaucracy and also greater transparency. What Katarina said earlier were those classic cases, but there are others, of course. In my opinion, several agricultural ministers have already prepared and set up working groups in the past. I can just say when this started: there, sometime in 2003, before the entry into the European Union under Minister But's Ministry, then, for a short time, Mr Pogačnik continued the matter, and Minister Lukačič continued the matter, then Mr Jarc continued and then again Mr Pogačnik, not least our fellow Member Dejan Židan, but he had quite a number of these groups and also visits to this account. What were those solutions and how they were being prepared there and whether the current minister took it and prepared this law, I don't know. But I hope that those solutions that were good — and that are also in here — I think are good — have partly been taken into account. The thing is not completely systemic, it is said that everything in one place would be, but in my knowledge what I have experienced as a food producer and what I am experiencing, all these controllers and inspectors have been independent, professional so far. Of course, we used to have a lot of them on farms — so I won't tell you what. But the fact is, the ultimate goal is that food is safe. And I hope the food on our shelves is safe. But it is true that overeating is sometimes a little dangerous, which is also evident when we walk down the street. When I was a kid, there wasn't one in those rigs where the electricity didn't have all the homes, and there wasn't one kid fat. Today, when I go to school, I barely see one that's not too fat. Of course, this is not only the result of safe or not safe food, but I think there are other reasons behind. But I have something else to say; here today I have heard the true interest. A colleague who is no longer in the hall said earlier that the official veterinarians inseminated breeding animals; the official veterinarians monitor, control and do not inseminated breeding animals. Maybe he can do something else, but not farm animals, of course, because they have another job. So sometimes it is good that those soufflés who tell us something also need to be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please. Then there's the government's representative if he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! By the way, there was only one group, and this group visited three countries. I hope the Minister has used any of this or not, and the Minister will say so himself, but the Director-General has nodded. So it's obviously something. Now allow me to read to you what Mr. Minister wrote – Minister, can I read your sentences? "However, it must be stressed that the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the form of organisation, already has an adequate food safety system in place, which provides safe, quality food for Slovenian consumers." So the system isn't that bad or worse. This system is also recognised in the European Union as one of the best. Inspectors often say that, of course, mostly in conversations with four or six or similar eyes; they don't want to write that, but I don't know why not. But it would be wise for them to sometimes describe something positive, not just negative. Then in the same material, the ministry, the minister and those who actually prepared the material show that at this moment the Finnish model is the best model. This is clearly described, so I will not read it, and read it, honourable Members, because it is actually a good model. For the Finnish people, it is even significant that they are rational, and that is why we want to be much like them and to imitate them in many ways; and I hope that they will imitate us in what area. In doing so, we must not forget that Finland has offered to advise and help us build an institution; I do not know how much this has been used in this. As I said before, I believe that the area of food safety is not an area where politicians can argue with each other. Otherwise, I am saying why the Group of Social Democrats cannot support the law at this stage. We are not exactly going to say that it is bad or anything like that because the safe food sector is too important. We all want to improve it, so it is too much to hunt for political points wrong. However, I must say that in the way the law is put in, unfortunately there is not a lot left for us Members of Parliament to get involved in the law. With only a few articles opened in a large number of laws, we cannot cut into what is the greatest disadvantage of this, namely that we still have two systems, agri-food and health systems, and we cannot improve this. We will try to improve some of the things within the ministries, probably because of prestige rather than for some substantive reason, we have shared, but this does not significantly affect the quality of this law. In the end, I just want to say the following. The Honourable Minister, the Honourable Director, according to the coalition before you, will in any case be passed. I hope you will take into account what the union wrote, whose last letter we received today. They protest because they were not involved, which they said they were promised. This is the Pergam union – make a deal with them as well. If the employees represented by the union are satisfied, they will work with a larger elan, we will benefit consumers, as more energy will then be invested in the safe food system. I would be very happy if our farms, the food industry and anyone else were less burdened, but more efficient. From this law, this is not the case. However, it is still possible to do so easily with the procedure of work. I believe that the Veterinary Administration, the agricultural inspection and some other authorities in Slovenia involved have often shown that they can follow and are well-led in the European Union. Finally, I'd like to say that I want a good path to this marriage. But you yourself have assessed why you do not have to comply with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for everyone's discussion. In view of the fact that I was in the previous composition of the National Assembly, I must say that I have missed such substantive discussions as they were today, and this is confirmed by the participation. So thank you so much again for that. I would like to give answers to some of the concerns or controversial thoughts that have been expressed. First; once again, I confirm what has been written and what has been read in the end – surely and happily in Slovenia we do not accept this law because anything would be wrong and we should act in some way curative, but we act preventively or otherwise, we improve the system that works. I think it's also a basic dilemma, or some fundamental system law that would go into a lot of things, or regulation, optimizing processes, take a step by step. Our decision was to go this way. Ambassador Zveglič told us today how many ministers have already dealt with this topic. I have a study with me that was done at the time of the Ministry of Magi. Diana jeedan, 12. 1. 2011. It is said that it will soon be two years of what the conclusions of this study have been made. This was also one of the documents we exchanged at the pre-transmission meeting, and I must say that these conclusions are largely taken into account in the preparation of this document. It's not ours or my way of working to rip and tap into some back-up human resources stories. Yesterday, I also explained here that in a certain decision that was in the past about the promotion of agriculture, we must have been of a uniform opinion that something could be done. We didn't go back because the signed document had to be respected. The same is true of these starting points. At these starting points, which I have already said will be written down, in January will be two years, we continued our work in such a way that a group within the Ministry was formed. The group was attended by all the chairpersons of these bodies in the composition or Directorates involved in this optimisation process. Then this proposal, along with many others, was finally developed within a good two-month period. So we're on the e-democracy portal 18. 6. immediately this product has also been published. 21. 6. The unions were informed and received a proposal for a law inviting them to participate. The government procedure has taken 14. 8. It has been said two months since this law was promulgated. There was another 22 meetings with the union representatives. 8th and certainly there are still opportunities for us to meet and possibly discuss this law. 30. 8. the law has been passed in the Government and we are investing it, as has been said today, following a regular procedure and we are pleased that this general treatment has also been carried out today in the National Assembly. Surely what some have claimed to be a transfer of personnel — there is no interest, no goal. As I said before, the groups were made up of people who are doing this work today. Perhaps it is a little unusual – I also see no need for people who are not currently in responsible positions in this area to be involved after the adoption of this law. This I would certainly do if I did not start this debate in such a way that there are no reasons for the poor situation in this area, but that we have the area of safe food in Slovenia certainly on an enviable level. I can say calmly that those of you who have trouble supporting this law are here in the back looking for some human resources for, I don't know, political soldiers. That's just not gonna happen. As for this mini-ZUJF and the decision why we went into this process to give a package of ten laws. Easy. As you've seen, it's a matter that interferes with one department and three bodies in its composition, it's called the Veterinary Authority, the Phytosanitary Authority, and also the inspection. There is no law to be adopted by one law and another by another in a different form. This is a package where, with different organisational forms, it is necessary, as a result, in all these laws, where today there is some jurisdiction, I don't know, in the wine law, and it talks about the agricultural inspector, and this is moving to the administration, this issue needs to be settled in the package. This is why this technical part is concerned, and this was an assessment in the end. I myself had this idea that the association to this package adoption of laws would be great, but it was easy to conclude that it was wise to go this way, and that if we fix anything, it is said that we are making substantive changes, making changes in all the necessary laws that are changing. As far as this controversy, which was opened here today around the systemic approach, the Finnish model was also mentioned. The key difference between Slovenia and Finland is that, in addition to the legislative work, we have not added the inspection work to this joint administration. That's the key difference. However, the fact is that through such an administration it will be significantly easier to identify reference laboratories, institutes and then manage this difficult area. This area is covered by: National Veterinary Institute, Institute of Health Care Maribor, Institute of Health Care Nova Gorica, National Institute of Biology, Agricultural Institute of Slovenia and Institute of Agriculture and Brewery from Žalac. Yesterday, I was here two minutes before midnight when we were answering our questions. There were several questions and controversy here yesterday, and also in public, when the other minister decided to connect the Institute for Health Protection and eight regional health care institutions into some institutional work. So I suppose and hope to set this thesis too, that if we went the other way, we would get another clue. When we saw the material and content of these institutes, we decided, given that our system is functioning, that it would be too harsh to have all these institutes, which I mentioned earlier and which are also written in the material, squeezed into a story of this institution. That's why it was this step of graduality. I must say that I myself have had the opportunity to get to know Finland in another area, as a local politician, and we have talked about putting a landfill for high radioactive waste. Not to be any kind of association, but when we asked the Central- and South-Europeans how these processes were going on, whether people would end up making decisions at the referendum or others, the Finnish people looked at us and asked us if they were elected to make decisions on behalf of people. We watched hard because we know how this is happening in Central Europe, let alone in the Mediterranean. I think that this would be a step – and that's why we decided on this type – that we would push into this institution – to use this term – to use seven more institutions, eight more institutions, a grave and we simply decided – maybe this time will bring – but the proposal is what you got on the tables. Otherwise, I'm afraid they'll get other readings. One of the things that we are also at the beginning of the drafting of this law – and this is also open in this material that I mentioned earlier – is the health and food control sector by health inspection. I must say that at the time of the drafting of the law, we had a very broad debate later on this subject during the coalition coordination period. In the end, this intervention, which took place in 2009, which has already passed through the framework of the official veterinarians, is sufficient at this point to avoid literally disposing of health inspectors from schools, from hospitals, from the homes of older citizens and similar institutions. Even after the assurance and in the words of Minister Gantar, who participated in these discussions with his services, these inspectors, in addition to these tasks in the hospital, do something else in the home of older citizens. In this way, we would also have reduced the already narrower inspection, which is numerical, if I'm not mistaken, there are 34 inspectors out there. Finally, I took note with me of this conversation, where in the end, even after the controversy about it, we wrote down and also wrote both ministers, together with all the people on both sides of the team who prepared this law with us, and on the other hand those who know more about the health inspection area, decided to propose in such a form. Therefore, as I have already said, the law is at this stage of the general debate, it goes through the normal procedure and again thank you for these comments today. Together, it will be necessary to determine and assess whether any further changes need to be made. Welcome to the cooperation of all to hold this debate, and I hope that we will adopt the best possible law in the regular process. However, the aim is to try and, therefore, the calendar allows this year, following a regular procedure of this procedure, and to start a new calendar year with a different organisational structure. There's a cut date of 31. 12. As I have already said, the matter has certainly not been taken by hand, but was based on a decade of work in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We continue with this point if there is any further desire for discussion. The time for discussion has not yet come. Please give me a signal – there is no desire to discuss, so I am closing the debate on this point. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On a daily basis, this is a particularly special report on Romani residence rates in the South-East region. The Ombudsman submitted a special report to the National Assembly for its consideration. To further explain the special report, we will give the floor to the Ombudsman. I'm informed by the professional services that the guardian is in these rooms and is coming towards the hall. Dear Mrs. Chebašek Travnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u181	Your Honor! Thank you for your words, but in particular, thank you for having placed this item at the meeting of the National Assembly. In 2011, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia addressed several cases of human rights violations against members of the Roma community in the South-East Slovenia area, Dolenjska in particular. For example, an example of access to drinking water in the village of Dobroška Vase in the Municipality of Škocjan is attached to this special report, which you are considering here today. At the same time, we received a large number of initiatives from the area of Dolenjska or the surrounding area of the New Town, which live in the immediate vicinity of illegal Roma settlements and feel threatened by the conduct of the Roma population. On the basis of these initiatives, we have found that the relationship between Roma settlements and their surroundings threatens the realization of human and special rights of the Roma community on the one hand and the realization of human rights of Roma people on the other. Both are affected by their dignity, personal rights, property rights, equality before the law, and ultimately by their trust in the rule of law. On the basis of the relevant cases and other information, particularly interviews with Roma and their representatives and with the surrounding population, we find that the main cause of the worrying situation in Dolenjska is the legal and municipal irregularities of Roma settlements. In order to regulate these settlements legally and municipally, the congregation is primarily in charge of the rules in force, but time has shown that some municipalities as carriers of measures for the legal and municipal regulation of Roma settlements for various reasons, both objective and subjective, ineffective and ineffective. With regard to the regulation of illegal Roma settlements in the Dolenjska region, the Ombudsman is a witness to the multi-annual adjustment of responsibility from the municipalities to the country and back. The slow regulation of Roma settlements is also reflected in the data on accepted spatial acts. There is no accurate data on this, either by the government or by the guardians, since some congregations do not answer any questions. This also testifies to the attitude of the mayors and mayors of some municipalities to the regulation of Roma settlements in their area. The reasons for the failure of municipalities to regulate Romani settlements are also linked to a certain resistance of the majority population, so local authorities often ignore the active or more active solution to the regulation of Roma settlements in caring for their political existence. Moreover, the legalisation and municipal regulation of these settlements is a very difficult project for which there is often a lack of professional staff in the local authorities. In our opinion, too, too, the reason for the slow legalisation procedures is that no sanctions are imposed on municipalities that do not implement settlement legal and municipal measures. We note that the situation in and around Roma settlements is serious and requires an appropriate response from the country, so we have decided that worrying situations and delays in the integration of Roma community members into Slovenian society should be brought to the attention of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This report is also intended to encourage national authorities and local authorities to accelerate the implementation of the national programme of action for Roma. We have also attached recommendations to the Special Report, which we believe can contribute to the urgent movement and elimination of congestion. We estimate that it is necessary to include the country directly and actively in the regulation of Roma settlements instead of failing municipalities. The legal basis for this is in Article 5 of the Law on the Roma Community and other rules. I'm just gonna finish for a minute. The Ombudsman's recommendations attached to this special report were supported by all the debaters at the Commission's petition meeting. Unfortunately, most of the Ombudsman's recommendations were not supported at the conclusion of the debate. Yesterday, I visited a Roma settlement and a civilian near them. The situation has not changed on either side. Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much to the Ombudsman for her presentation. The Special Report addressed the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as the parent labour force and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to Mrs Tamari Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities at its 4th meeting, held on 22 June, as stated, discussed the Special Report on the resident situation of Roma in the area of south-eastern Slovenia. The Ombudsman is in the context of a complementary explanation and, as we have heard before today, said that the result of years of work on the subject of Roma issues is in various ways: access to drinking water, the power of municipalities to obtain appropriate permits and funds for municipal and infrastructure management of Roma settlements, complaints or proposals from residents living near Roma settlements. The special report deals with the living situation in the South-Eastern Slovenia region, because this is a particular problem in this part of Slovenia. It has also pointed out, once again today, the transfer of the responsibility of the competent national authorities in the implementation of individual recommendations and of the Ombudsman's proposals. The representative of the Council of State expressed his full support for the report and the recommendations. The representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space agreed with the Ombudsman's findings and recommendations and welcomed them, said that the spatial problems of Roma settlements were being resolved under three laws, causing many complications, but that the regulation of the spatial problem of Roma settlements could be handled in a similar manner as provided for in Article 13 of the Spatial Planning Act, whereby the State could take measures instead of an inactive municipality, but at the expense of the municipality. But a solution will not be possible without a partnership between the country, the congregation and the Roma community. It also proposed that larger Roma settlements should be integrated into the settlement system of Slovenia and that funding from the relevant European Union funds should be obtained to regulate them. The president of the Roma Councilors Forum warned that the municipalities were not interested in including Roma settlements in municipal spatial plans. They're pleading for the country. In his view, the law makes it clear that the local community is the one responsible for regulating space and considers the national programme for Roma to be a mere letter of paper. He also misses the partnership between the country, the municipalities and the Roma organisations. Romani children are difficult to succeed in school if they do not have water and electricity at home. Because of their low education, they will, of course, find it difficult to get a job later, so, as he said, they are "obsessed on the social hub of the state", which again disturbs the other inhabitants and thus increases the anti-Roma mood. He also proposed the evaluation of the existing law on Roma. The representative of Amnesty International warned that living in separate Roma settlements is often the only way of life, as in cases where they want to move, they face discrimination against both local authorities and private people. Sometimes they don't even let them buy land or anything. In the debate, members and alternate members stressed the need for the Ombudsman's special reports for a more effective wedding for positive changes and pointed out that a government commission for the protection of the Roma community had not yet been appointed – this was in June. The decision to discuss the report was adopted by the National Assembly. The proposal for a recommendation from the Ombudsman, as it has been said, was not adopted by the Commission, and a proposal was adopted by members of the coalition arguing that the Ombudsman's recommendation should interfere with the Constitution on equality between the Roma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly! The Roma issue is also one of the constant debates in this House. The Roma question is not from today or yesterday, but there is a whole time since we have our own country, which has inherited this issue from the previous country. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are pleased to see that one of the representatives of the Roma community at the Symposium of Intercultural Dialogue on the first day of autumn, 21. 9. in Velenje said that the situation of Roma in Slovenia is improving in some segments. He also pointed out that there are no improvements in some segments. The situation of the Roma is significantly better in Prekmurje than in Dolenjska, White landscape and Posavje. It is also known that many members of the Roma community live in larger urban areas where they have successfully integrated. In considering the Ombudsman's special report, we have again learned that, in order to effectively address the most pressing situations and effectively control the competent authorities for the prevention and control of the illegal behaviour of the Roma population, it is essential to establish the legal and municipal regulation of Roma settlements. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we add that it is unacceptable to endanger the security of the people and their property and that such causes must not mean tolerance or even omission of crimes or crimes already committed. We are aware of the cultural specificities of the Roma, and among them there is no way that we can count on non-compliance with regulations or, for example, carrying weapons without weapons, working in black and similar ways. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we know the problems of regulating settlements with long-term spatial procedures, which must be managed by municipalities that want to adopt spatial and regulatory documents. We also know the doubts of the surrounding population and the disputes within the Roma communities, which further hampers and makes it more difficult to resolve them. Nevertheless, we must leave the main initiative to the municipalities which the state must provide professional assistance in doing so, for which a special expert committee has been established by the Government, which has recently met for the first time in this mandate and which has spent the most of its 13 meetings on resolving the situation of the Roma. We also hope that the Government's actions will be taken as soon as possible, as they also cover the area of space regulation, so that the procedures for obtaining spatial documentation will run faster and cheaper. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the Ombudsman's recommendations in a special report on this part of the problem, as it supports the efforts of the municipalities and the Government through this commission to improve the living situation of Roma. And in the end, let me re-emphasize. However, without any good further cooperation from all the competent and active and constructive cooperation of the Roma communities themselves, it will not be possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone who's in the hall! A special report on the living conditions of Roma in the area of south-eastern Slovenia shows that Roma as a special ethnic group in Slovenia are still isolated from the rest of the population. They live under minimum housing standards, emergency shelters, barracks, containers, trailers and the like. Roma are not the only inhabitants of Slovenia living in poor housing conditions, but the housing situation in most Roma communities is significantly worse than in the general population. As many as 21 of the total 25 Roma settlements in Slovenia do not have access to drinking water and sanitation for members of the Roma community. Their dwellings are modest, crowded, often without access to water, electricity and sewerage. The absence of basic municipal care makes it difficult for them to provide the most basic personal hygiene. Unregulated housing is also the cause of many other problems facing Roma, particularly in achieving an appropriate level of education, professional qualifications, information, access to health and social services, performance in the labour market and housing in various areas. It is impossible to expect the successful integration of members of the Roma community into Slovenian society if they have not been guaranteed the basic level of housing culture since their birth. The Ombudsman notes that the situation in Roma settlements threatens the enjoyment of the human and special rights of Roma communities and the human rights of the inhabitants of surrounding settlements. It has been confirmed that the conduct of some of the inhabitants of illegal Roma settlements threatens the basic security of the inhabitants of Roma settlements and the security of their property. Unworthy housing conditions constitute a vicious cycle of exclusion, non-education, unemployment, violence, attacks on foreign property and lack of action by the authorities. In Slovenia, the importance of regulating housing issues of the Roma community was recognised in the National Programme of Action for the Roma Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2010-2015, but many municipalities as carriers of measures for the legal and municipal regulation of Roma settlements do not follow the national programme. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it has clearly been insufficient to raise awareness of the advantages and shortcomings of the legalisation of existing Roma settlements. This is a prerequisite for the successful integration of members of the Roma community into Slovenian society. In doing so, we must be aware that the problem is only a matter of cooperation between the State and the Roma communities. It would also be necessary to provide adequate education for adult Roma, as this could help them to understand their settled housing conditions. As a result, the possibility of regulating the economic, social and social situation of the Roma would be increased, and a more patient relationship between the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements and the members of the Roma community could also be expected. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the positive aspect of the special report of the Ombudsman on the housing situation of Roma in the south-eastern Slovenia is that the report is the result of an investigation into the initiatives of members of the Roma community and the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements and that the conclusions and recommendations on this basis are conclusions and recommendations. For this reason, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We have taken a systematic approach to solving the Roma problem in Slovenia from a legislative point of view and adopted the Law on Roma Communities in 2007, which Nova Slovenije also supported. This law has offered frameworks to provide conditions for the placement of Roma settlements in a space, their organisation at local and national level, the framework for education and employment, and this is also the basis for inclusion in society, acceptance and equal treatment. In the Republic of Slovenia, certain Roma groups still live in an enviable position, as regards housing and other conditions, particularly as regards the supply of drinking water to Roma settlements. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the problems of the Roma community, but we must stress that this is not a problem in the whole country, but only in individual regions. The responsibility of solving the problem is within the competence of local communities, and it depends largely on the activities of Roma saints and Roma communities in the Republic of Slovenia. An example of an effective solution to the Roma problem is certainly the municipalities of Pomur, which have prepared a programme to solve the problem and have carried it out to a large extent. In Novi Slovenija we advocate a more effective solution to the Roma problem in the future and especially for the participation of local communities dealing with such problems and for the transfer of good practices.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you. I'll dare take a slightly different path, some sort of European introduction to the subject, if you'll excuse me. Only a few thousand Roma survived the Holocaust and German concentration camps. When they wanted to rebuild their lives, they faced great problems, they lost their possessions, many of them had their health destroyed, but most of the attempts to get any compensation for it were in vain. Their demands were rejected. The numerous killings of the Roma were not the subject of the Nuremberg trial. You won't hear much about the genocide of Roma. In many European countries, Roma or so-called travelling populations still do not recognise basic human rights and are still the target of misunderstanding, even racism. They have limited access to education, employment, living and health standards and have no representative in the legislative branch of government. The anti-Roma mood is widespread and associated with the complete misunderstanding of the majority population on the history of repression against the Roma population in Europe. In economically acute situations, the tendency to accumulate guilt or hatred is even stronger, as they are extremely convenient targets. Roma are collectively stigmatized as criminals. Today, we can monitor with concern, for example, the deportations of Roma in France, the use of anti-Roma rhetoric, the Roma community as a whole, as a whole, and not as individuals, but as a whole. The European Commissioner for Human Rights is convinced that we can take some concrete steps to change these relations. The historical persecution of the Roma could be devoted, say, to what hour of history in school. One important point is political participation – that's what he's talking about, that's not my idea. Since the discussions on the Roma are often misused, I would like to stress the following. The situation is a reality that we must accept, a difference is a fact that does not allow persecution, an opportunity that we do not all get. Maybe the kids will convince you. In Prekmurje, for example, they successfully graduate from school, in the south-eastern part of our country rarely. Is that why the kids are guilty? So are children in southeast Slovenia dumber than those in Prekmurje? The ghettoisation and later paternalism created by the bad conscience of so-called civilians, as we are told, are not the answer to these pressing questions. Addressing the topic is not as much about money as it is about the actual willingness of the State or the company to participate and accept it. It is therefore necessary to discuss Roma with Roma; the integration of ministries, cooperation and support for local communities are essential. If there is a water pipe on the pastures in this country, which I welcome, it is unreasonable to deny this same right to humans. The Ombudsman's special report on the living situation of Roma in south-eastern Slovenia in Positive Slovenia is supported and we hope it will cause a shift. We'll be happy to have the least of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, respectable Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Chebašek Travnik! As has already been said, we have before us a special report of the Ombudsman on the housing situation of the Roma in the area of south-eastern Slovenia. The report, as the Ombudsman explains in the introduction, largely summarises the content that is also included in the Ombudsman's 2011 annual report and will be considered by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities in the coming month as well as at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, in my view, it is not too much to look a little wider at the history of the Roma issue, but especially at the adoption of legislation in this area. Under the first government of Janez Janša, the Office of Nationality prepared a bill on Roma communities, which was supported and actively participated in the creation by both the Union of Roma Slovenia and the Forum of Roma Saints. At that time, as the first Member State of the European Union, we have arranged this area in a comprehensive manner and with the desire that both the municipalities in their midst of the Roma settlement and the country try to listen to and solve the Roma problem. Other countries, as you know, have such issues either within their constitutions or in their field laws, some have such issues covered in the common minority law, and some are used to solve them through various specific projects. The legal basis, as the Ombudsman has already stated in the introductions to the regulation of the situation of the Roma community, is Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the situation and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law. In addition to the general rights applicable to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the Roma community, as a special ethnic community with its culture, its language, its way of life, must also ensure the so-called special rights and the principle of positive discrimination, which is not limited to the principle of equality. The regulation of the legal situation of Roma or Roma communities, which does not have the status of a classical minority, began in 1989 when a provision was adopted with constitutional amendments to regulate the legal situation of Roma by law. Then, as you know, we resolved Roma issues within twelve sectoral laws, but they only partially regulated the problem, and today all of this, the real regulation of the situation of the Roma community itself in the Republic of Slovenia, their special rights, organisation and, above all, the creation of conditions for better communication between Roma and national and local authorities is governed by the Law on Roma Communities. And more. With the establishment of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia, which represents the interests of the Roma in relation to the state authorities, we have achieved significantly better and, above all, faster communication years ago, and thus more effective action on problems within the Roma population. It is not possible to ignore the fact that, on the basis of the law adopted or prepared by the Yangtze Government, the State and local authorities must provide a prior opinion of the Roma community before they adopt anything in relation to the situation of the Roma. Before that, there were other governments. In the report we have before us, the Ombudsman explains that in 2011, a large number of initiatives related to the situation of the Roma community, living in illegal and socially unregulated settlements, were being addressed. It is a geographical area, especially the surrounding area of the New City. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not object to improving the housing situation in Roma settlements, but we cannot agree to equal treatment of the Roma population. We believe that Roma coming from south-eastern Slovenia as well as those coming from Prekmur must be treated equally. Otherwise, discriminatory treatment could occur within the Roma population. We have Roma in Prekmurje, who have taken care of their own living conditions, have also successfully integrated themselves and socialized themselves into the environment, but have also been able to draw funds from municipalities; they can certainly set the example for Roma in south-eastern Slovenia, who today expect everyone else to provide suitable living conditions for them. The Ombudsman points out that the basic condition for improving the Roma problem is the establishment of legal and municipal regulation of Roma settlements, with which the vicious cycle of exclusion, non-education, unemployment, violence and attacks on foreign property will be interrupted. Therefore, the key emphasis of the report on Article 5 of the Law on Roma Communities, which is why the Ombudsman expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so itself in the event that municipalities do not properly regulate settlements. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejected such interpretation of the Ombudsman and explained that it cannot interfere with the regulation of Romani settlements instead of municipalities. For the government claims, I quote from the Ombudsman's report that: "Article 5 does not list the criteria on the basis of which municipal and legal irregularities are measured and considers that the applicable legislation in the area of spatial planning shows that municipalities are the first to approach the spatial regulation of Roma settlements. The Government also considers that the intervention of the State in municipal jurisdiction would destroy the work and efforts of all those municipalities, which, with the assistance of the State, and in particular the participation of the Roma population, are seeking to regulate the long-term living conditions in Roma settlements. The final conclusion of the Government, however, is that the living situation in Roma settlements is improving and that there is no reason under the given circumstances to interfere with the jurisdiction of the State." End of quote. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance and sensitivity of the issue that we are dealing with, but at the same time we agree with the Government's explanation that the municipalities in which Roma settlements are located are responsible for such problems by law, as has already been said. At the same time, we are convinced that more attention needs to be paid to the educational field, because only education and in some way a changed system of values can contribute to greater socialisation of the Roma and, consequently, to reducing the differences between the majority and Roma populations and also between the Roma themselves. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Ombudsman's report and we will also support the recommendation already adopted by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities at its meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madame Guardian Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik with fellow Members, Members and Members! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have carefully reviewed the Special Report on the living situation of the Roma in the South-Eastern Slovenia area and we understand it as one of the eight special reports which, in addition to the 17 regular guards, he transmitted to the National Assembly. Let me remind you that among the hot topics that the Ombudsman has addressed so far in special reports, this is the order of action: on the realization of the rights of the owners of the fall for Slovenia in 1991, the first report of 1998, in 1999, two special reports on the treatment of prisoners and persons with mental disabilities, in 2002 on the issue of sub-legal acts and on tenants in denationalized apartments, in 2004 on domestic violence and deleted, and this, as stated, is the eighth. The introduction specifically states that the ambition of this special report is not to make an analytical, comprehensive report which would have a comprehensive view of the situation of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia, because in Slovenia we have specific national authorities which are empowered to do so, but it is only an overview of the situation that the Ombudsman has created on the basis of concrete initiatives and indications of the initiators. Taking into account this introductory explanation and the recommendation, which concerns the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia as a whole, we see no reason to attach to those who speak of the discriminatoryness of the recommendation, which should not treat the Roma in Slovenia in the same way. Social Democrats understand that this report deals with the provision of adequate housing for all Roma in Slovenia, and the fact is that they are not all in the same situation. And perhaps we would turn the matter around and say that we might consider what civilians in the south-eastern part of Slovenia can learn from civilians in Prekmurje. According to various institutions, I mean social work centres, administrative units, NGOs, live in Slovenia about 10,000 Roma, can also give you 12,000. They live in Prekmurje, Dolenjska, Bela krajina and Posavje and in larger cities such as Maribor, Velenje, Ljubljana, Jesenice, Radovljica; Sinti are also located in Jesenica and Radovljica. On the basis of the 2002 census, 3 000 246 people and residents were identified as members of the Roma community, while 3 000 834 people were identified as native to the Roma language. The legal basis for regulating the situation of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia is Article 65 of the Constitution and all legal regulations are based on this Article of the Constitution. So we could say that we have no problems with legal documents, but the question is how do we implement these documents. I am confident that we will also face the Roma issue in the annual report of the Ombudsman. However, I would like to point out that, with what we have heard in the opinions of the parliamentary groups and which, in my judgment, this opinion of the parliamentary groups, among them, departs from what we have accepted as a recommendation at the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, because I have seen that the vast majority support the recommendation contained in the special report of the Ombudsman. I should therefore point out once again that the Council of State has stated that it fully supports the report of the Ombudsman and the recommendations made to the Government, the municipalities and the Roma communities to take the recommendations into account. Indeed, the Council of State has also proposed that, where necessary, the National Programme of Action for Roma 2010-2015 be supplemented. Among the civilian groups, I should mention only Amnesty International Slovenia, which on this year's International Roma Day on 8 April stressed the education of Roma children, the right to adequate accommodation, access to water, sanitation, regulation of the legal situation of Roma settlements and spatial segregation and discrimination. I also stress in particular that in February this year the Council of Europe issued a comprehensive publication entitled Human Rights of Roma and Traveling Groups in Europe. This publication is the first review of the situation of human rights of Roma and travelling groups in all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. The aim of this publication is to encourage a constructive debate on policies towards Roma in Europe by focusing on measures to end their discrimination and marginalisation. They are still far behind others, especially with regard to educational achievements, employment, housing and health standards. Anti-discrimination is still very widespread and intertwines with the surprising lack of knowledge of the majority population about the history of Roma repression in Europe. Here, in particular, let me point out that, in fact, the Social Democrats find it difficult to understand the decision of the government of Ivan Janša to decide to shorten the programme by a Roma assistant who has been financed from European funds and to draw on them, some of whom are also citing themselves to a large extent, because this programme as a Roma assistant has proved to be an extremely successful programme that would help a Roma child to improve education, and we all say that the lack of education is a major obstacle to Roma's more equitable integration into Slovenian society. With regard to Slovenia, the Council of Europe is concerned about the promotion of racial hatred and other forms of expression by public servants against Roma. It further notes that in Slovenia there is discrimination in access to suitable accommodation and that housing segregation is also visible in other countries. As far as Slovenia is concerned, many Roma in Slovenia live in settlements without heating, running water and sewage. During his visit to Slovenia in April 2011, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights visited Dolenjska and found that there is still no access to running water and electricity and that "the inhabitants live in isolated settlements with substandard conditions" – this was a literal reference. Otherwise, as positive in Slovenia, the report assesses progress in the field of minority representation, including Roma in elected bodies – Roma representatives know that they have the right to represent their interests in 20 municipalities – and calls on Slovenia to do everything for the education of Roma saints. If we look further at the Ombudsman's special report on the situation of Roma in the South-Eastern Slovenia region, you have also highlighted that there are several cases of human rights violations committed by members of the Roma community in the area concerned by the report, and on the basis of these initiatives, it has also found that the situation in Roma settlements and their surroundings threatens the realization of human rights and special rights of the Roma community on the one hand and the realization of human rights of the Roma population on the other. Both are affected in their dignity, personal rights, property rights, equality before laws and ultimately trust in the rule of law. The main and main causes of the worrying situation in Dolenjska are the legal and communal irregularities of Roma settlements, for which the congregation is primarily in charge of the applicable rules and documents. The Ombudsman notes that some municipalities, as carriers of measures for the legal and municipal regulation of Roma settlements, are ineffective and therefore proposes to replace, in justified and urgent cases, their actions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministries, on the basis of the mandate provided for in the Law on the Roma Community in Slovenia. At this point, I will stop analysing the content of the special report and I would like to say the position of the Social Democrats only with regard to the recommendation. The Ombudsman's recommendations and the Commission's adoption of the recommendation differ in two fundamental things, in our view. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have decided to propose to the National Assembly that the recommendations adopted by the Commission should be amended with a recommendation which would include recommendations made by the Ombudsman. In fact, they would do what the vast majority of the panel’s panellists acknowledged – both representatives of the Roma community and civil associations and representatives of individual ministries, so that there would be no mistake. I would therefore like to draw particular attention to the essential difference in why such a recommendation as we propose should be adopted and which I have initially seen and also to say that it is supported by individual parliamentary groups. The fundamental point was that there is no shortage of legislation, the fundamental problem is that problems have arisen or the non-implementation of legislation and the responsibility for this is given as the hot skeleton of the municipality to the state and the state to the municipalities or local communities. Therefore, it seems to me that the words "to expect greater activity of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia" are insufficient and that it is an essential better recommendation, "The Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia should be more actively involved in the procedures for regulating Roma settlements in the municipalities with its proposals and initiatives under its legal powers. If necessary, it should also be included as an intermediary between the Roma community and local communities in affected areas." It is therefore a concrete recommendation, what we expect on the one hand, also from the Council of the Roma Community. The third recommendation, say, what has been adopted, such, very general nature and so far has not produced any results. Why not follow the Ombudsman’s recommendation? Five indents specify the proposals to be made: to specify the legal and municipal arrangements of settlements at individual rates; to provide for a time limit for each individual level of settlement arrangements; to establish a supervisory authority to monitor the implementation of individual stages of settlement arrangements by means of monthly reports. For municipalities which would not have implemented measures within the prescribed time limits, sanctions should be provided for, as is known by all laws, and the actions of municipalities which would have missed out on any of the stages of implementation of settlement regulation should be replaced. I will only point to one more recommendation, where I see a significant difference – it is the modality. It's one thing to say something happens, another thing to say something has to happen. And here the Ombudsman is irresistible: "Civilities must ensure that citizens have adequate access to drinking water without distinction..." and so on. It's a major difference. And what is roughly the same is that "the Government shall report to the National Assembly at least once a year on the implementation of all that is recorded in the national programme on the implementation of these recommendations, paying particular attention to the situation in Roma settlements in the wider area of Dolenjska." However, if I am reading recommendations from the Special Ombudsman's report, which builds on individual cases from southern Dolenjska, it is necessary to see and acknowledge that these recommendations are such that they are of general nature and relate to the entire Roma population and to the relations of the State : municipalities : Roma communities throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore recommend that you support the amendment, by which the Social Democrats have only been included in the recommendation of the Ombudsman in the special report this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much, mag. Majda Potter. Now it's mag. Truda Cinderella Member Group National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, president, others present! The findings and proposals in the special report of the Ombudsman on the situation of Roma in the south-eastern Slovenia are based solely on the initiatives of the affected individuals and are the result of an investigation into concrete initiatives and indications by the initiators. The problem is explained and illustrated by concrete examples in the report. The Special Report deals with the living situation in the South-Eastern Slovenia area, because such problems as inadequate legal and municipal regulation of Roma settlements and the exercise of drinking water rights in an unlawfully established Roma settlement are occurring in this particular area. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette supports the Special Report on the living situation of Roma in the South-Eastern Slovenia area and the proposal for recommendations adopted by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, Mrs Tamara Vont is on the list of Mrs Marija Plevčak, if not followed by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Otherwise, we've said quite a few things. Perhaps she would have touched some of the points that had been exposed. We can be legislative – I mean, we can say that we have the Law on the Roma, that we have a law that protects the Roma. Of course we do, but if we've been talking about this for so long, it probably means it doesn't work the way it should. As far as mayors are concerned, all these matters are essentially a matter of the local community and that it is necessary to cooperate with the mayors. I must say that we, as the Commission, sometimes have problems with cooperation with mayors who do not recognize these problems and do not attend the meetings to which they are invited, and they do not want to hear this because it seems quite often that this does not concern them, and, on the other hand, they also express some anger at the country as well, at the Government as it does not help them to resolve these problems. Of course, we are talking about two different things: Roma in Prekmurje and Roma in Dolenjska, as well as in Posavje. It's hard to compare this matter. It is also difficult to attribute this to them alone. That would be extremely unfair and unfair. As Mrs Póteta said, perhaps civilians from Dolenjska and Posavje should learn some of the civilians from Prekmurje, because they are essentially relations that are actually going in both directions. I'm talking about some kind of action, which, of course, also causes some kind of reaction. I would like to point out another problem that is often discussed and that is, in fact, an obstacle to solving these things. In fact, the Roma have also been very dispersed by individual organizations, and then they argue with each other. In short, there is no oneness. I think that a lot of times, I can tell you from my own experience, we are guilty of this because we actually like to cause these differences very much. This in some ways also reduces the power of the Roma population as a single, as a whole group. But see if we can look back. In the area of education, however, we can see the commendable movements that are taking place; and this must be a sign that we are on the right track, but that education cannot act alone as such, it is said, without any involvement in all other areas, in the areas of all other ministries. Here I would like to commend Minister Bogovic, who has also done a great deal as mayor of Krske to solve problems in the municipality of Krško or Posavje in general with regard to Roma settlements, and I hear that he has also taken over the government commission. I hope it will work successfully, because sometimes you really don't need more than one visit, than one call, but as one conversation, very many things can be resolved and this really doesn't concern any big financial means. But it is true that man must have some will and that he cannot seek only excuses at all times to do nothing; and we have done this too long in this country. When I spoke to paternalism earlier, I am talking mainly about the fact that it was fitting for us to withdraw the Roma to the ghettoised areas where they should live their lives to give us peace. But with this we somehow dug a cave to say, even to myself, because after groups that strongly opposed it appeared, there was some sort of parallelist attitude towards the Roma, and so the Roma thought they would do everything in their place. And don’t think — because it’s likely to be discussed today — that I will condemn the karst company Kostak, which turned off the water in Kerin’s village because the Roma did not pay for water there. No, I won't! That's the only thing right. And that's the way to go. But first they were provided with water, and then, if they don't stick to it, it's the same as everyone else; but first they have to give these people an option because they don't start with the same basics that we all start with. You need to be aware of that. That is why we are obliged to take care of ourselves and not to encourage ourselves, I do not know any practice from other European countries, where they are proud to say how they are being pushed from one place to another. Look, this story's over; this story's over. It will also end in France, because it is simply not possible for Europe to see this and not watch it and it must not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleague and colleague, respectable Ombudsman, Mrs. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, distinguished representative of the Government! The most north-eastern part of Slovenia, called Prekmurje, is characterised by the fact that the living laboratory is a minority, with members of different ethnic groups, including Roma communities, living in Slovenia. Today I listened with attention to the discussions of almost all representatives of parliamentary parties, where you praised how the Roma issue was resolved in Prekmurje, and also called on all actors to transfer good practices. It's actually a recipe. Sometimes, or always, it is necessary to be extremely sensitive, extremely sensitive, in solving the Roma problem. I just remember when we adopted Romani law in the 2004-2008 term. I remember how much negotiations were needed, how much effort had to be made on the part of the Government and also on the part of the National Assembly. At that time, we had a great deal of contact with the Roma communities across Slovenia, and I am glad that I was there for us to adopt such a law. Sometimes it is difficult for the majority of the people to explain why, for example, the country pays for Roma violence, or even more, and Europe, when we build sewerage ourselves, we have to invest mostly ourselves. But here's my local community's job to properly communicate this issue. As an example of really good practice, I would like not to resent my local debate, showing the example of the Romani settlement of Kamenci. This is in my congregation, the congregation of Črenšovci. They have their website, you type in the romi-stones.si and you will get more information than I will put here on my own. Here is actually a thank-you to France's Prešerna Črenšovci Primary School, which has been concerned about Roma children leaving primary school for 40 years. But it started with a bicycle teacher taking three gypsies to elementary school. We'd be laughing about it today, or maybe someone's laughing about it. But those were the beginnings. And that the municipality actually provided normal living conditions, sewerage, asphalt road to the settlement, to the construction of an intergenerational facility where computers, photocopying machines and so on are. Now they will also build horse stables there, so that colleagues and colleagues, if anyone has a love of horses, maybe even horses owned, I have a solution, put it in the barn in the Roma village of Kamenci and I want it to be well provided for. But it is certainly also – this is now again from practice – that rights must always be tied up – or if you want privileges, as we sometimes say – on civic duties. This link must, of course, be within the framework of legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspard Gaspard Music is not with us. It's mag. Dean Jedhan, then, some of them checked out, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, honourable Members and Members, a lovely greeting! Of course, we also have examples of the Roma community operating in Slovenia in such a way that the Slovenian state can also be proud of its Roma community. This happened recently in Murski Sobota, where we opened only the third museum in the world, the third museum of Romani culture and history. Unfortunately, though, through the report presented by the Ombudsman to this National Assembly, we note that there is no progress everywhere. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I really suggest that you accept the amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, as we will show together by adopting this amendment that we want to change the situation. Let me just read you the difference between what you have accepted as a coalition and what the Ombudsman has proposed and you will understand what the difference is. The coalition adopted the following text: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should explore the possibilities for joint participation of the State and municipalities in the regulation of Roma settlements." Do you know when politics makes up such a sentence? That's when he's serious about doing nothing. What is the recommendation of the Ombudsman? "The Government should, on the basis of Article 5(3) of the Law on the Roma itself, take the necessary measures to regulate the situation in those municipalities where there is a serious health risk in Roma settlements, a prolonged disturbance of public order and peace or a more permanent threat to the environment." Ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity to decide: to do nothing or to give the Slovenian Government the task of actively addressing this area and to find solutions that will also be proud of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin's failing. It's mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u205	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I do not want to be impatient in my debate, perhaps someone will understand this debate, but I would like to point out both sides of the problem. I absolutely agree that the municipality and the mayor are responsible for providing clean drinking water, for the plumbing of all their citizens and citizens. I also agree that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that electricity is provided, that the State is obliged to provide for the education of children and so on. But, on the other hand, it is hard to imagine or either: Roma have no right to occupy private land, they have no right to alienate private property, even though it is purely classic gardening. [[...]] And it is difficult to understand that they are allowed to drive in unregistered vehicles while other citizens are not. I didn't invent these things myself because I live in an area where the Roma don't live, but I heard these things when our delegation visited the White Land. When we talked to people there, there was a terrible sense of inequality that some were allowed more, others less, to overlook certain things, others not. I'd say that's what civilians think. Yes, you can. On the other hand, I believe that the Roma are also thinking that they do not have access to clean drinking water, sewerage and could still be listed. The Ombudsman drew attention to the unresponsiveness and slowness of Slovenian municipalities in regulating the Roma problem. When it comes to a Romani settlement, this Romani settlement is most often set up on a private land, with a lot of problems — from redemption, spatial regulation, and so on. I hope that I will not say too hard that sometimes it is understandable slowness when some lands have to buy and pay regulation, while some others expect these lands to be settled at the expense of taxpayers. My opinion is that we should make every effort to educate the Roma. I think it's the only thing that matters and our future together. There are examples of good practices. One such practice has already been spoken of by my predecessors. Prekmurje is such a case where things work perfectly, and if they work there, then I see no reason why we should not work at any other end of Slovenia. And we, as representatives of the government or as a state, should do more for a system that would encourage Roma to send their children to school, and strictly so. If I finish, I'd say we all have to work together for a better co-existence. If I use the Roma term, we civilians must make every effort to reduce or eliminate all possible prejudices that they actually are, and many of them are also unjustifiable. A number of individual Roma may sometimes set a bad example, and not all Roma are to blame for it. On the other hand, Roma will also have to work for a better generation. If we all do our part, then I believe that all these reports that we are considering now will be better every year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much. There's a few more debaters on the list. Many have checked out. I do not see Mrs Franca Jurša here, nor Michael Prevac, Ivan Hršak. It's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. When I think about our expectations of how to integrate Roma into the environment in which we live, I think I have already told someone a typical Maribor case or a Maribor experience. On the right bank of Drava there are many block settlements, and in one of these blocks, Roma also received an apartment. The housing community dealt with the situations they were disturbed by: the dirty staircase, the door slamming, and I don't know what else, and then they chose my colleague to talk to this Roma family and they found a common agreement and for that Roma family they found in Maribor a small old private house, where the Roma family moved to their own delight. The Roma family was no longer in the bloc, but the staircase was still dirty and the door slamming remained. Morale or science is implicit in this story. Now, here's to what you want me to say. The Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is the title of the act. That is what we should know when we always associate and condition something with another: human rights — already, but also duties! Well, here in civilized society and regulated society are laws. But I would like to warn you that the laws and institutions of the rule of law do not respect even those who should be an example to us – I will not say names, I think we can bring them to memory. As for respect for property. This is a big problem for me, and I advocate that those who do not respect foreign property must also take our consequences for this disrespect. But for me, the problem arises when a Roma family is prepared, or any other family: they have money, they are willing to pay for land and housing, and the environment does not allow that family to move into the environment. We also had an attempt at such a visit in the field, and then those who needed to talk to us preferred to give up their visit. I don't think everything is perfect in Prekmur. I have been in Prekmurje many times, and there are also some scratches, just like scratches everywhere; and also as the truth is that if there is something already settled as a good practice, every next generation should be obliged not only to observe this good practice but also to upgrade it. Here it can happen that, for example, Roma youth have the opportunity to have their own football company, football club and that this club is very successful. The fact is, we all have in common that we want to have a positive self-image. The same is true when it cannot be realized, often we find ourselves in a vicious circle from which it is difficult to find a way out. But it is essential to me that we have a national programme of measures for the Roma, that there is a lot of beautiful writing in that, that you will even find that topic that is so kind to me, that the principle of gender is taken into account when taking measures, but if you go to see what is really going on, how many opportunities to achieve, to implement these measures, I stress, but the struggle is small. What worries me – look, I mentioned earlier in the opinion of the parliamentary group the programme of the Roma assistant. This ran in Slovenia because it was a programme from European funds. It would be good, because it was very large, I think the largest number of Roma assistants was 31, now I read that according to some records this program has been cancelled at all; according to other records it is only reduced; well, I hope that the minister will answer the question raised and I will find out what is true and at the same time find out why the programme is a Roma assistant. Because what people don't understand is that the resources we get from Europe for Roma integration are for education, for work training, for resource allocations and for something other than for Roma and for which they can't be spent. And that's a problem some people can't face. When I was once at the Social Work Center asking if the experience in Maribor with Roma families was worse than with others, they said, "Like with everyone; you have good families and you have bad ones." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Maybe the government representative still has a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members, the distinguished Lady Guardian and fellow Members! I would like to make an immediate response to Mrs Majde Potrat's remarks on the programme by a Roma assistant. This programme has not been reduced or discontinued by a Roma assistant, but it has been carried out smoothly, but it is a question of who is implementing this programme. It is, therefore, another educational institution working on this programme, but you will also get an appropriate response from the Minister to your question of the mission, as you said. With regard to the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of the Roma community. As Mrs Bokovic has already found, she is headed by Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, who also has experience with such a problem from the past when he was Mayor of the Municipality of Krško. This Commission has already met at its first constitutional meeting on 20 September, last week. The Commission took note of the work of the Commission in its previous mandate, the conclusions and tasks adopted and decided to continue its work as it had already begun. Of course, one of the priorities of this Commission in the new mandate will also be the issue of possible amendments to the Law on the Roma Community and the issue of regulating the living situation of members of the Roma community in general. This Commission will meet in a short time at the second meeting, according to the latest information. In this way, I can also reply to Mr Židan that the Government or the government commission will actively continue to work as it has done in the past. As regards the report on the situation of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to point out that a second report relating to the period of the second half of 2010 and 2011 has already been prepared – this report has already been brought to the attention of this government commission at its first constitutional session – and this report will then be dealt with appropriately in government committees, in government and then sent to you to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Madam Ombudsman, Dr Zdenka Čebašek Travnik would have had a chance to speak, but I do not see her in the hall. Look, the guardian lady has been here, she knows how the debate is going on, let's be right and wait for her for half a minute. You want a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. I take it that you have very well examined Members and Members of Parliament and you have understood our message. This message is that the problem of Roma settlements must be addressed in a coordinated and thorough manner. And when I say it thoroughly, it means that we have to predict who is responsible for what and what happens if this responsibility is not carried out. If we look at the information from the congregations — I am sure that you too can obtain it — we will see how the congregations are failing to report this information to the government. The government — not now or this one or the previous one — does not have the tools to respond to this flawed response. Nothing happens if a congregation does not provide an answer about what it is like to have spatial acts in a certain congregation. Now we have to ask ourselves the following question: How can we act in municipalities where they refuse – that is, they have already told us clearly and have shown us – how to deal with the issues of the Roma community? Or a little better: How can we encourage mayors and mayors to take a more active approach to resolution? We have some good examples in Slovenia, of course. Whether this change can be achieved by some kind of reward, let's say that the country contributes a few more resources to such municipalities, or by sanctioning only. I hope that this will be decided once in the future by you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Speaking of state analyses, I would like to say that the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, called FRA, has done analyses on the situation of the Roma community, but Slovenia has never been included in these analyses. Also, the fact that we were released from this and a number of other research, popularly referred to as FRA, has led me to run for office as a member of the board of directors. I hope that those who will represent Slovenia in this European institution, which can support us with comparable data, will achieve greater involvement in other programmes. I am pleased that I have heard that the Romani assistant will remain as a term and that, as I have seen, he will continue successfully or will continue his mission successfully. I don't know if anyone here has been here so many times during this time period in Roma settlements as I have been with my fellow workers, and I have also been among the civilians who complain about the treatment of the Roma. I know what I'm talking about. I want to tell you that things are stressful. If you want to understand or experience what the chairman of the petition commission has been talking about, then what day you spend there, in Kamenci, where it's nice and where I always like to go, and also go to Dobroško village, where you don't feel good. The emerging Roma population is a ghost. They act like all of us: they express their different interests in different ways. Why should we demand of them and expect some unity? It is true, however, that we must provide them with the same information and, above all, enable them to participate actively. Let's see. Information on whose ownership Roma settlements are – and you can get them at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment – and this data shows only for South-Eastern Slovenia that there are plenty of Roma owners, as well as the country, as well as the Fund of Agricultural Lands and, of course, private people, so each settlement needs to be discussed separately. It is therefore important that what we have done in the Ombudsman respond to individual initiatives and that our findings are not general. Of course, we can at least partially generalise them, but they are specific and come from specific data. The Group of Social Democrats drew attention to the differences between the recommendations in our special report and those adopted by the Commission. They also explained the difference, and I don't have to. It is up to you to decide whether you will accept their amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate and brings us to the debate on the amendment to the draft report of the parent working body, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled, dated 24. 9. 2012. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group to the proposal for a recommendation. I am opening the application and I would like to ask the attention of those to whom the time for discussion has passed. We've got one registered. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to the Ombudsman. Colleagues and colleagues! I applied to discuss this amendment. I must say I am sorry to have listened to the previous debate on this report. I hope you've all read it well, that you've also tracked inside that part of the determination of the Ombudsman concerning the surrounding population. I agree with the Ombudsman's finding. I come from a municipality that is close to the village of Žabjek, where I was mayor for 13 years and we also feel the consequences of nearing the settlement. Let me tell you a little bit about history. I also heard that years ago that the Roma once lived here on the hill of Frog because only the village is Brezje, where there was tromje. On one occasion, the Roma could stay in the congregation because they were considered nomads for only a month. Since it was at the top of this hill of Tromey, and they lived in tents, they moved so much each month that they were in another congregation. That was the way to stay. Then they moved to the valley along the road, and there was a large village called Brezje. The population around them has become increasingly dismayed and trying to organize themselves. They talk about self-organizing themselves into so-called village guards, because the excesses that appear are virtually insufferable. If you have read the report, the Ombudsman's conclusion will also read: "The complexity of the situation also increases the fact that the Ombudsman also addresses initiatives that point to discord within and between the Roma communities themselves. We note that some members of the Roma community agree with the isolation and integration of Slovenian society as a threat to their traditions and culture. For example, weddings of teenage girls or lifestyles, such as weapons with no weapons, resistance to formal education and the like." I see here the essence, the origin of all the disagreement that occurs during dealing with so-called civilians and Roma in this area. To see if we have any information on how many of these Roma children finish primary school. How many Roma from the village of Brezje are employed? I think we can count them on the fingers of one hand. Why? Because social policy is such that it does not encourage employment, because in some children it receives more support than if it were employed, or just as much as if it were employed. That's what they claim. As far as this settlement and the legalization of the settlement are concerned. I just have to commend the police for always taking action, but I think it has limited powers here and is not an investigation or impossible to explore various excesses. As far as carrying weapons without a firearm is concerned: in the middle of the year, in the six months of 2012, the police received 26 reports of shootings in the Roma village of Brezje. In the past year 2010, in the middle of 33 cases. I don't know who would be happy when you get home, but you see a broken bullet bar when you get in the front or in the windows of the bullets coming from the neighborhood. People are scared to hear the shooting. Police have done a lot of housework, and they've also seized a lot of weapons. Not to mention the primary school, what is going on in Irslin, where there are already about 30% of Roma children, and parents do not want to put their children in this school. If they don't go, the concentration will be even higher. As far as illegal construction is concerned. I'll read only one case listed here. One of the instigators in the New Town District Attorney's Office filed a criminal complaint against Roma for the seizure of foreign property for the purpose of construction. The Court has issued a conditional judgment on the case for unlawful possession of property under Article 338 of the Penal Code and the sanction has not abolished the unlawful situation despite the court’s finding that it is illegal construction on foreign land. The removal of construction was not imposed in the context of criminal proceedings, as the Penal Code 1 does not even allow this. While the instigator is aware that a civil claim is also available against the convict, it has a low pension which does not allow it to pay a lawyer and a court fee, the recovery of these, even in a very likely success in justice, cannot promise it, since the potential defendant does not have the property. So the epilogue can't be here either. The Municipality of Novo Mesto even disbanded some owners in order to legalise this construction and it did not happen. The building inspector by law has no jurisdiction over the use of land, the establishment of various housing and other commissions and so on. In most cases, Roma facilities are placed on agricultural land, so that primary inspection of these land is under the jurisdiction of the agricultural inspection, as far as forest land is concerned, and under the jurisdiction of the forestry inspection. Thus, even the construction inspector cannot act in these cases when it comes to illegal construction on foreign land. One of the municipalities is also supposed to acquire European funds for the purchase of land in a Roma settlement and Roma do not want this land. Why? Because they have property with it, and if they have property, any fine they receive for a misdemeanor can be expungable. If they have nothing, they can't take anything from them. They cannot take or withdraw fines for offences from social support in the law. Cars are driven by children under the age of 13, because the state can't hurt them. I had a car accident myself with a kid like that when my dad was sitting next to me. After a two-year trial in a court of law, the Court found that since he is a minor, all costs are incurred at the expense of the State. And that's what's happening. In this country, if you don't have anything, they can't take anything away from you, but you get social support that's not worth going to work for 600 euros if you get 550, so you don't go to work. How many employees are there in the village of Frog? I already said that. Regarding the last excesses in Grosuplje, when the Roma broke down the inn. The case in Ljubljana with the Strojanovi. In the New Town, a civil initiative has been set up to organise themselves to defend themselves against such cases. The government is therefore powerless in these cases. I'm afraid there will be more and more cases when civilians will imitate the Roma, that they will live the most if you have nothing and do nothing. And they can't take anything from you. Otherwise, the regional and civil initiative has also drawn up a programme that has been adopted in the assembly of the peoples and sent it to you, the Ombudsman – I think you have it, and there is no talk about it here. Things are getting more and more complicated, and we need to find ourselves with the Roma — otherwise we have some bright cases in my congregation, and we have no problems, some families, and we have no problems with them, but these are really exceptions. Some want to get a job, they want to go to school, and because of the vast majority that are different, it's hard to get a job, that's true. Nobody wants to hire Roma. This is a major problem that is likely to increase further. We are all obliged to approach the solution of this situation, which is not as uniform as I have listened here to some who live in the other part of Slovenia, who have no problems with it. I don't think the congregations are the ones who could solve this. On one occasion, the chief of management called the mayors and ordered us to count the Roma. Things have gone so far. This is not within the jurisdiction of the congregation, but within the jurisdiction of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. We still have time to discuss this. Is there any other desire to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Tamara Vonta and Mr. Roman Jakič. Here you go, Mrs. Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I agree, Mr. Lah, these are all problems. I know them. I also know the problems on the other side. I know the problems with civil initiative, which occurs before every local election as a very strong actor and abuses the issue of the Roma in order to win votes in local elections. I know that. And it's not fair what you're saying. I know there are problems, and we've all been alerting them. I know what's going on, and of course that's not right. Just like it's not right for someone else to rather sit at home and get social assistance than work. We are an example to them in many ways. The key issue is this, as you have already learned: who will take Roma to work? Who? We don't even let him live in a flat next door! And you're putting all the responsibility for such a situation on them! That's not fair. Here you are deceiving, and with this we are again in the same vicious circle that we cannot get out of until we change, on both sides, not just one. That's all I wanted to warn you about. I understand that you must give your people in your environment the hope of solving this problem, but your path is not the right one. Believe me. I live in one of those areas where I have contact with these troubled Roma. And it always worked out! Because we talked to them and treated them like humans, and we did not exploit them for any other purpose, and because someone in our congregation had the will to work with them. And: yes, among them are criminals, as among us, I do not say here, but as among civilians. Of course they are! Gun dealers. Tell me, what do people do with social goods? What are they doing?Oh, my God! This is pointless, as it is senseless to read or to read in the media, that the Roma were shot; the Roma were broken; the Roma are — I don't know what. That's wrong, that's incorrect. Or do we say that the two Goreans were shot at each other: the two Dolenites broke the feast? And it's happening! Do you understand me that one leap has to be made? When we figure it out, so will they. Believe me, and some have already figured that out, and some have already talked about it. You're right, there are problems! But I want you to know that every time I was working on television that was wrong in Dolenjska, it was Romi's fault, whether they were there or not. The phones were ringing. Rommies burning tires, rommies burning, I don't know what, rommies smashing, I don't know what. Oh look, that's what the Rommies did! You're the victim of prejudice. So do you. And they just excuse what you're ascribe to them. Actually, it's about, do you understand, a vicious circle, it's about two sides. And one of these is you. Remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I didn't really want to come forward, but I have to say that this last debate provoked me to want colleagues who feel that way, as it was discussed earlier, that, despite ever taking the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia into their hands, they will read a chapter on human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular Article 14, which speaks of equality before the law, particularly – and this is the most true of us who are public individuals – and we should always read carefully Article 63, which speaks of the prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance and the prohibition of promoting violence and war. I understand the prejudices you may have, but nevertheless this country, not least, is built on human rights. For human rights, we have built this country. And the citizens of this country must have their human rights protected. Everybody. When you explain to me how the Roma are shooting and walking around armed with no gun list, I ask you why you never raise your voice when they're walking around criminals who aren't Roma. Why don't you ever raise your voice when the Olympic fan group comes to Maribor and breaks down the entire Maribor stadium – or the Mariborians in Ljubljana. No! No! All we ever say is, we only label Roma. That's why you provoked me to show you that you read your constitution. I would really like you to read your constitution, because with these words that you have said today, you have only fueled intolerance, you have fueled dissatisfaction on the part of those who are currently affected, the Roma, because you are generalising. And that's what's best for my liver is that because of some deviant behavior, someone generalizes the entire population or even the nation, if you want, or the whole group. And of course: if we have good practices in Slovenia where they can date together, instead of criticising them to prevent them from participating in public life – especially your client is very interesting about where Roma have guaranteed participation in municipal councils, it was always the SDS that blocked the fact that the legal basis could be realized in municipalities. Therefore, read article 63, which will tell you that you are doing something that is against the Constitution, and above all against human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, before you start spreading intolerance among citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say again: I have been around since the 1980s and I have fought for human rights and I am sorry, sometimes I am sorry that you were not around when you were not around – I do not generalise, I speak for you when I did not see you until 1995 – when this country was working to protect human rights. This is the only gem I hope this country will not lose. She's lost all her reputation, and I hope she doesn't lose.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Even the nanny wanted a word. At the same time, let me just warn you that earlier due to technical problems, time was not properly measured and you have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you. At first he was also measured when I wasn't inside, but I'll be quick. As far as equality is concerned. If you have nothing, they can't take anything from you. You get a DSP they can't rub. That's right. Hold on to everything, not just the Roma. But I've talked to a lot of people, but really a lot of Roma, especially young people who are educated, who have a profession that they have in high school. There is also a Romani academic club. That's where college graduates are. They want to work and they can work, but they don't get the job. They hide their Roma identity so that they may just get a job and when the employer finds out, he quickly finds out about a mistake for which he can forgive them. We have received a proposal for a civil initiative on a different regulation of the Roma settlement, and we have also given the proposaler enough time and words to explain it to us. Of course, the Ombudsman does not have the power to analyse or even implement such a proposal, but I hope that this proposal will be addressed on a government commission to protect the Roma community. My great confidence in Minister Bogovic is that this commission will also lead successfully because he knows this – to solve problems with the Roma community. There would be, in my opinion, this proposal for a civil initiative to be considered. When we heard about the indiscretions of various inspections, we wrote this just to make sure that you are aware of where the powers of the State and the inspection actually go, that even if civilians, or Roma, or the guardian are alerting us to irregularities, the laws are those that make it impossible for us to work more effectively. Finally, I would like to say something more about the greater participation of the Roma. I heard or read in the media that the Law on the Romani Community was about to be opened. Years ago, we proposed, and also made an application to the Constitutional Court to change the composition of the Council of the Roma Community. I would also like to hear your word, perhaps on the occasion of the presentation of the annual report, whose congregations are obliged to have Roma saints. It was an arbitrary decision, and the Roma live elsewhere. Fortunately, there are also municipalities that have set up working groups, truly working, to address the issue of the Roma community. Let me say that the inhabitants, the civilians, the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements, are in serious trouble. I want members of the Roma community to hear from this city my voice, that they too are subject to the values that we strive to live by, that we raise children to non-violence, that we strive to care for our families, and that we contribute to our country that allows us to live in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I am now asking the technique of whether we have any time left to discuss or you if anyone else wants to discuss it. As I see, there is no longer a desire for a debate, so we will conclude the debate with this point. The amendment and the draft report will be decided on Wednesday, 26, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 9. 2012, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item and also the 6th session for today. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Goodbye.
