ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and the following Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Dr. Andrei Črnak Meglič, Samo Bevk by 12 noon, Roman Žveglič and Mag. Marco Pogačnik. I invited the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting on agenda items 1 and 2. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 6 March 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of each item from the agenda, but at the College of Presidents we have drawn up a proposal for an extension of the agenda by addressing the draft law on amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government for consideration. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly be extended by considering that proposal. You've received an extension proposal on the bench. Does he want a word from a government representative as a billmaker? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! With regard to the proposal to extend today's agenda, I would like to say that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we oppose the extension of the agenda by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act in the Republic of Slovenia, because we have already addressed in this reference the Public Finance Act, which also contained a provision that a decision should be adopted to manage capital investments, which will define how to manage capital investments in the period until the strategy is adopted. At that time, this law was rejected without any consideration for the irreparable consequences in Slovenia. This is also one of the reasons why we are here today talking about this extension; it is supposed to have irreparable consequences if this law is not adopted. Our view is that the irreparable consequences for Slovenia will arise if this law is adopted, because the experience of the previous capital investment management, directly influenced by policy, is very poor. Our economic situation and the resolution of the financial and economic crisis is hampered precisely because the policy was directly involved in how businesses should operate and how capital investments should be resold. This law brings once again agreement on this – i.e. the government's agreement on capital investment management – and we will therefore oppose the extension of the agenda by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Given that the previous explanation by a colleague from the Social Democrats has been very clear, I would add only one more part; this is that we will always oppose the positions that have been tabled five minutes before. At 8.15 p.m., the Committee of Presidents met where this proposal was tabled by the Government with two lines of explanation. This means that it is more than clear enough that there are not enough arguments to speak in favour so that we can discuss this subject in such a short time. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will vote against this way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. We will adopt a proposal to extend the agenda. We will adopt it because the Capital Investment Management Agency did not draw up a Capital Investment Management Strategy within the deadline foreseen, which was the basis for any decisions. It has not done so even in an extension of the time limit that has already expired, and it is now necessary to regulate this government investment management in such a way that, until it is finally settled, the owner has, that is, a State, a right or not just a right, including the possibility of giving consent to all these changes in capital entitlements and management. Let me only draw attention to the problems that are taking place in the management of state property. Even in the largest state-owned companies or financial institutions, there is total chaos among supervisors, among the AUKN, among administrations, sometimes there are problems even with the appointment of directors, and we are in a difficult time. The problems were also some year ago in the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. At that time, the Agency for Capital Investment Management, in some unusual way, forced some capital-intensive state-owned enterprises to invest €70 million in the recapitalisation of NKBM, there were also problems in international markets, because this was a tender – I think on the Warsaw Stock Exchange – and as a result, we also experienced a poor assessment or poor evaluation of the rating houses. In this area, I think it is necessary to establish order in the short term, and the country, as the owner of the property, must take over its tasks. However, I hope that this area will be further regulated and that this will also provide an opportunity for better management of this property. So far, that's been bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? If not, I am closing the debate on the proposal to extend the agenda and moving on to a decision on enlargement. We will decide on the proposal to expand the agenda by considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, an urgent procedure. Please check the functioning of the voting apparatus and vote. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 31. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 31.]] Enlargement adopted, the assembly will consider the draft law as 2A item of the agenda at the following meeting on Wednesday at 2 p.m. We are now moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, and with a proposal for a supplement. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hellenic Republic Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members! We propose a bill amending and supplementing the Loan Act to the Hellenic Republic. We are proposing it as a matter of urgency, because it is actually part of a large, so-called additional aid package for Greece, because that package that was adopted in 2010 did not produce the expected results or did not solve the problems that Greece has in the public financial area. The reason that this first package did not give all the results expected is more. One is the acute economic situation itself, the extension of the recession – this was not expected at the time. Secondly, in part, the delay in implementing reforms, or not sufficiently rapid implementation of reforms in Greece, is also linked to the political situation in Greece. The third reason is the instability of financial markets, which we also partially felt in Slovenia and was also known for the interest rates that we pay for our debt. All of this has led to a situation where, at European level, in particular in the euro area, an additional way of helping Greece was agreed. This time, as you know, guarantees are the basic way, no more direct lending, as in the first package. However, when it was reviewed in the Euro Group and then in the European Council and in the Council of Finance Ministers' plans, it was found that if we are to achieve the goal of reducing Greece's debt to 120% of gross domestic product by 2020, those who helped Greece and now owe it to Greece to repay or pay interest on those loans must do their part to enable it. That is to say, somehow we came from the logic that it makes no sense when you save someone, then with interest to extra burden them and thus make it difficult for them to achieve their goals of debt. Therefore, a decision was taken in two Appendices at European Union level to also adapt the terms of the basic loan already granted to Greece in such a way as to reduce interest rates and extend the validity of those loans. In Slovenia, we have the Hellenic Republic Loan Act, which accurately specifies the terms of this loan, so if we want to participate – and the Government's proposal or position, as well as the Committees of the National Assembly, it was in this package of assistance to Greece – we need to change this law, and this is what we now propose to do following the urgent procedure. The aim of this bill is, as I have already said, to contribute to the reduction of Greece's public debt to the target level of 120% of gross domestic product. Above all, this is important for us because, in this respect, it reduces the risk of some deterioration of the credibility of the entire euro area and chain reactions in other countries – Slovenia is the fourth, fifth in a row, I think, within the euro area which could be lost or which could be further aggravated by lending conditions if there were a continuation or a major crisis in the euro area. The main solution to the law we are proposing is in accordance with these agreements or additions to the basic loan agreement adopted at European level, in order to first reduce the interest rate by 100 basis points according to the existing interest rate and extend the period of deferral of principal from 3 to 4 and a half years and extend the duration of the loan to Greece from 5 to 10 years – this is the first supplement. The second supplement then further reduces or sets the interest rate on the eurobor plus 150 basis points, extends the deferral period to 10 years and extends the maturity of the loan from 10 to 15 years. These legal changes are proposed. The cost of the budget on this basis is €3.4 million, divided over this period. For those loan tranches that have already been drawn up, we are proposing legal changes that would allow interest rates to be reduced in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the Chairman of the Committee mags the floor to present the report of the parent working body. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u10	President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 10th emergency meeting. 3. 2012 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Loan Act of the Hellenic Republic. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The Service made comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law, but no amendments were tabled to the proposed law. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, as a representative of the proposed law, gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. As has already been established today, a substantive change is mainly that, due to the poor economic situation in Greece, the extension of the loan to Greece and the reduction of the interest rate will ensure greater sustainability of the Greek public debt. This was already decided on 21 February 2012 at the Eurogroup. In Slovenia, due to this decision and in order to provide a legal basis for the entry into force of the two additions to the loan contract, the law submitted should be amended. For the first supplement, the period of repayment of the principal shall be extended from three to four and a half years, the duration of the loan to Greece shall be extended from 5 to 10 years, and the interest rate shall also be reduced. For the second extension to the loan contract, the interest rate shall also be reduced to EUR 150 basis points and the principal’s repayment shall be extended from four and a half years to ten years. The duration of the loan shall also be extended from 10 to 15 years. In his explanation, the representative presented the estimated financial implications of the decisions taken for Slovenia and said that, assuming there were no further withdrawals of the loan, the interest received could be increased by a total of EUR 48.7 million. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative drew attention to the question of the time limit for the implementation of the two addenda to the loan contract and to the question of whether it was necessary to provide additionally for an object signing or concluding two additions to the loan contract. In the debate, the discussion drew attention to the consequences of possible non-admission of the law. On the question of the application of the two supplements and the conditions for the validity or entry into force of the additions and the level of interest rates, the representative of the Government explained that the non-admission of the law would not be positive for the Eurogroup and the European Union, since it is a decision that must be taken by all euro area countries that are parties to the agreement and the two additions to the loan agreement if it is not possible to implement at EU level. From a financial point of view, this would mean an increase of 1.8% of the gross social product by 2020 for Greek debt. With regard to the implementation of the two additions to the loan contract itself, the Government representative explained that individual countries have different arrangements or implementation into the national legal order. The countries that need some kind of verification or acceptance in Parliament are in the euro area 6. In this respect, Slovenia will be the last country to complete the national procedure in Parliament in view of the planned timeline. It is also a condition for the European Commission to receive a letter or working groups chairing the Eurogroup so that all lender countries have completed their national procedures. As amendments were not adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He has the word on behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Ladies, gentlemen, president, minister and co-workers! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Hellenic Republic Act. There is probably no need to lose words that the adoption or approval of this law is necessary so that Slovenia is not left behind. On the Committee on Finance, we asked what would be very unpleasant for Slovenia if we did not support these amendments to the law. We are aware of this in Positive Slovenia, so we will support this law. But it is very interesting to see how the vote took place and what the debate was about the adoption of the basic law that it drafted, advocated and eventually adopted by the previous government, the previous coalition. From the magnetogram and the vote record, very interesting things are understood. For example, the five current ministers voted against the adoption of the basic law not to mention the President of the Government, a total of six, so to speak, half of today's government: Mr Bogovic, Mr Cernač, Mr Gorenak, Mr Vizjak, Mr Žerjav and, of course, Mr Janša. I would very much like to hear what has changed to this day – in addition to their sitting in the government on Gregorčičev – that they have decided to support this bill in the government and, if I understand it correctly, that members of the current coalition will also support it today. I will give some discussion from the meeting where the basic law was adopted. "In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the parliamentary group, the loan law to Greece, we are talking about almost EUR 400 million, we will not support it. Many arguments lead us to say, given that time is limited, only a few of the most important. First; this is an inappropriate way to rescue an indebted country. Third time – an inappropriate moment. The Slovenian government requires public officials to seal the belt for approximately EUR 400 million per year, interestingly, about as much as this aid to Greece. This requires Slovenian civil servants, not Greek officials. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this path is wrong, so we oppose it." These are Mr. Chernač's statements. "At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the poor policy of the Slovenian government, which requires Slovenian employees to tighten the 400 million euro band in order to allocate the same 400 million euros to Greek civil servants for their 13, 14, 15 and even 16 salaries, which are already half higher than the average wage of Slovenian civil servants. That's unfair. This is something completely different than the stated policy of this government, and the fact is that it is highly likely that these funds will be reprogrammed, if not even written off over time, and that it is essentially a gift, as said, to people who have financially speculated on some important European economy, specifically Greece." Mr Grimes' statements. And also Mr Petan's statement: "At the end of the day, should I be allowed to do what was right for others, and would ask: "How would the parties of the ruling coalition today speak and vote if there were a different government in Slovenia?" Dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, who have rejected the basic law with a lot of warnings, and now you are proposing and supporting even a law that has poorer conditions, lower interest rates – today you will have an answer to how the opposition behaves and votes responsible. In Positive Slovenia we will support the law, because what is necessary for the country must be good and acceptable for us. In Slovenia it would be much better if everyone understood that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Dear President, Minister, everyone else, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. There's more than one reason. Not only have those who may have been listed here today, but it is the first to actually allow a better rating of the large credit rating agencies by changing the terms of the loans to Greece. Of course, a better rating for Greece also means better conditions and easier repayment of debts. Better conditions for repayment of debts also mean economic growth for the whole of the European Union, economic recovery and greater confidence of businessmen in the European economy. There was another element that was important today or last night. Indeed, private capital has joined the rescue of Greece, joined in actually limiting or resolving this financial crisis in Greece. With some kind of symbiosis between EU countries and private capital, additional economic growth in the euro area is ensured. This is essential, which is also important for the Slovenian economy. For the Slovenian economy is strongly entangled in the European Union and the Slovenian economy uses, like the inhabitants, the common European currency. And with regard to the common European currency, Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon clearly states that it is common and cannot actually be resolved without any country leaving the euro area. That's impossible today. The basic starting point adopted in the 1950s is thus provided for the European Union. What is important is also that Greece will have to implement the programme it has adopted and that the European Commission will be led by the control of the programme, leading by the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. This has, of course, ensured that Greece will meet difficult conditions, for some also difficult conditions, such as reducing public administration employment, reducing budgetary expenditure, reducing public administration salaries, public administration pensions, increasing certain taxes, such as taxes on alcohol, petroleum derivatives, tobacco products and, last but not least, introducing additional taxes on property and on those with extremely high incomes. This is a guarantee for Slovenia and Europe to come out of this crisis and to ensure, together with the fact that we have facilitated the conditions for repayment of Greek debt, together with the write-off of the private sector of EUR 107 billion, that Slovenia, together with the European Union, emerges faster from the crisis. This is also a warning for Slovenia that it is better to take certain measures on its own, which also means reducing public spending, and that Slovenia also makes some new starting points based on the principle that we can spend as much as we have actually created, which unfortunately has not been so in the last three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Respected and respected! My finger goes to the "against" button. This is simply because my conscience does not allow me, regardless of the commitment in Europe and whatever other things the coalition is forced to do – I am aware of this – but my conscience is on the other side that says, "We can't." And because I cannot support the situation, which is said to be that the Slovenian will pay the Greek, who has so-called cheating and lying and has even a better life today, and he will have a better life tomorrow than that of the Slovenian man, that now our citizen is obliged to pay 190 euros for it. My voice 'no', as I had predicted long ago, when this law was not yet in Parliament. Who, at least on a flat-rate basis, knows the current attitude of Social Democracy in sharing common responsibilities in the euro area, it is clear to him that the quoted position is not ours. These are the words of Dr. Vinko Gorenak, once a member of the opposition in this House, and today the minister of the new government. Not only was the performance to a large extent populism and binding, but it also contained some untruths, it was Huska and it was spreading a misunderstanding of the fundamental economic dilemmas that we have today not only in Europe but also in the world, it is clear that responsibility differs. Apparently, power does change people. For today, the government, in which Mr Gorenak also sits, is proposing to this National Assembly a law whereby we reduce interest rates on our loans to Greece and extend the duration of the loans given from 5 to 15 years. The authorities are really changing people. We Social Democrats have always advocated that membership in a club should be shared with both benefits and weaknesses. We are members of the euro area because this Slovenia has decided to enjoy economic growth by uniting economic conditions; and this has been the case for an important period. Then came another period. This meant not only the obligation, but also the responsibility and solidarity of our country to adequately help stabilise the euro area. Everything since the debt crisis started in Europe, and even today, when we see that this debt crisis is driving the beginning of the second crisis in this double crisis, it is clear that Europe must act, and it is clear that it must act as uniformly as possible. Slovenia has been a part of the solution to Europe's accumulated economic and financial problems, at the joint will of this Parliament. We are aware that the uncontrolled and completely unpredictable fall of Greece would not only undermine the economy in southern Europe, but also seriously threaten our potential, seriously harming us; allowing further declines in economic activity in Europe and effectively hampering Slovenia's economic recovery prospects. We understand this responsibility today, as we understood it in 2010, when on 6 July 2010 the National Assembly passed a basic loan law to the Hellenic Republic. Social Democrats support solutions that deter us from unforeseen and unsupervised scenarios, such as Greece's bankruptcy and whose result could also be the collapse of the entire euro area. We understand that responsibility to the state is not only a matter of coalition but also an issue of opposition. This has been our policy so far, and it remains so now. Today, we are faced with good news that shows that the private sector is 86% willing to participate in a partial write-off of its claims to Greece. We believe that today it is so important that the Slovenian Parliament, with amendments to this law, follows agreements at the level of the Euro Group and the European Council and confirms the reduction of interest rates for Greece and the extension of the maturity of the loans given. This is good news for recovery in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Members of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the loan law to Greece. Not with great joy because we are alone in a very bad situation, that we really have a hard time helping others. This change of law brings better conditions for Greece, saying worse for us who are lenders. However, we once decided that we wanted to join the European Union, we later adopted the euro, we were very proud of it. This has also brought us certain benefits. Of course, we will also have to take part in this process and eat some bitter pills. The law itself, as such, is even the legal and legal service – under these were the dilemmas, as it was written about manuality, as regards entry into force, as regards conditions. [[...]] This is the law, the rules of the game which have been written in the European Union, and we practically cannot change them, so we accept them as they are. I myself wonder whether the European Union is doing the right thing in the case of Greece. It makes sense if one of the members cannot pay his obligations to help her, but whether the way is right or if he could find another option. I asked myself who had benefited from these loans to Greece so far. It was also a gold pit for speculative capital. Here some great profits have been earned, and now that it is no longer paid by the countries of this obligation. Perhaps even if we did a survey, or if various institutions, especially financial institutions, were to say honestly how much Greek bonds were purchased in those golden times, we would find that there were probably quite a lot of them, perhaps more than the 389 million euros we provide in this context; probably 500, if we counted all the institutions, banks, insurance companies, the Bank of Slovenia, which were looking for some extra speculative profits in Greece before the debt crisis occurred. However, it has been known long ago that such an indebted country cannot repay its loans in full or settle the costs of its obligations. This is a very embarrassing situation. Europe is now taking action, proposing something, and I think it is right that we decide and commit ourselves not to spend more than we are able to create. Thus, Greece will at least continue to be a school so that this will not happen in other countries and to such an extent. It'll be a very hard nut. If we write off all debts to Greece, it will still be in a very big crisis, because it is not in a position to repay these debts or in a short or long period of time, because we see that we will change this law several times in Parliament until we reach a single law or conclusion that this debt will be written down. So it's right that we've gone to saving, reducing spending. It would also be good for Europe to take certain measures to re-energise economic growth in Europe, to go into the right investment policy and to properly trade in capital, to limit in some way all these speculations that take place on the market and cause these crises. It is not just Greece, which is a small share, the money that is circulating in the world system, it is increasingly speculative, there are future purchases and things. Everyone wants to make a profit with speculation, no work, and that's not going to work. It will be necessary to increase, improve the economy – but where? This is also important in which areas. All of us, in Europe and everywhere, will have to cool off this great consumption and direct our forces, knowledge and money to how to live in symbiosis with nature. It would be better if we all went together, unemployed and those who lack entrepreneurial ideas, now to plant potatoes and into the woods, and there are many things that we could do something useful, and we would all be richer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Mr President of the National Assembly, Minister-in-Charge, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are still not so sure that the best option was the approach taken by the European Union to rescue the Hellenic Republic or Greece. At a time when the situation has practically deteriorated in all European economies and when market financing has become more expensive than ever, Slovenia, as a responsible member of the Eurogroup, has also approached the aid in the form of financial loans. At that time, we could simply allow the excessively indebted state to declare bankruptcy, withdraw from the euro area, and start again. I know that something like this was even better two years ago unimaginable, today that we see the scope and long-term nature of the Greek problem, and many are also asking whether this option would not be much more useful and instructive, including as a warning to other countries; therefore, if you violate all the rules imposed on you by membership in the European Union and the euro area, you must also bear the consequences. But, as it was said, the decision was different back then. The sweat is gone today. The law that we are adopting today is special because it does not foresee further loans from our budget, but prolongs the validity of existing loans and reduces the interest rate. In this way, we are extending to Greece the period during which it is intended to stabilise its public finances. The direct financial impact of this law on our budget is expected to be positive in the sense that interest will even increase because of the longer repayment period in absolute terms. But Slovenia pays interest for this money; so it was not free for us either. Thus, we must pour ourselves pure wine and also make it clear to the public that it is not justified for the Greeks to act today on the principle: it is better to carry out the project by at least getting most of these funds back, than by tightening the lending conditions in a way that we will end up in the event of a possible bankruptcy that is certainly not yet excluded, without everything. If the price of the whole story in Greece's rescue and, in some ways, the euro of the system is only a few million euros between the interest rate of Greece and the interest rate that we are paying in the open market, then I think we have successfully resolved this crisis. But we can still draw something positive from the whole story. After virtually everything started in Greece, which would have been bankrupt within a few months without external aid, it also began to show worse in Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal. Today, however, the situation in these countries has stabilised slightly, especially because they immediately acknowledged that they have serious problems and that they have started to implement relatively quickly structural and austerity measures that in some parts already show their results. Where is Slovenia in this event? Slovenia, as a young country, is fortunate that it started completely new 20 years ago. Most of that time, we managed to maintain our financial debt abroad at an enviously low level. We have practically wasted this comparative advantage in the last four years. Today, as many other countries do, it is appropriate that we, too, recognize that spending more than we actually have is an irrevocable end. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this law in the hope that the recovery of the Greek financial problem will at the same time be a reminder to the entire European Community that only a few indiscretions, inattention and tolerance to a viable and irresponsible policy are needed, but that every country can face a similar situation as the country we are trying to help today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u21	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support the amendment of the loan law to Greece as the law does not alter the maximum amount of the loan provided for in the Hellenic Republic’s basic loan law. It seems important to me to emphasise this, because we are somehow still skeptical and inclined to pay the price of the Greek debt crisis. Slovenia's contribution to the Hellenic Republic loan of EUR 387.8 million remains unchanged by this law. To date, Slovenia has earmarked 243.5 million euros from this sum to Greece. This amendment provides only the legal basis for the entry into force of the first and second additions to the loan contract, with which the interest rate is lower and the maturity is extended and the period of deferral of the principal’s payment to Greece. Since these supplements are already agreed and confirmed at Eurogroup level, it is inevitable that Member States will make every effort to be able to establish and revive themselves, since the latter is conditional on the transfer to the national legal order of all lenders. What do these amended suggestions of good or bad for Slovenia bring? As explained by the Ministry of Finance, the revenue of the state budget at the expense of the lower interest on the tranches paid so far will indeed fall by €3.4 million and the longer allowance will have a positive effect on public finances, as the interest income will increase by around €48 million. With the changed terms of the loan, Greece will be able to return to financial markets in the coming year, which means ensuring the sustainability of Greece's public debt. The latter, however, contributes to the preservation of financial stability in the euro area, of which our country is part, is Slovenia. As it is said, this amendment to the law in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners has no problems and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government, welcome! When we are talking about the financial crisis in Greece, our thoughts must also stop in the face of our public financial crisis in Slovenia. Some say that even in Slovenia they see Greek islands. The President invited us to present the views of the delegations. I will follow the Rules of Procedure, and I will also invite this one, although I must admit that I am also being moved in this place, to point my finger at the culprits who have brought Slovenia to the bottom in the last three years, but I will not, so I will continue to take the position of the New Slovenia Group. On 6 July 2010, the National Assembly adopted the Hellenic Republic Loan Act. This Act regulated the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to approve, together with the other Member States of the European Union whose common currency is the euro, a loan to the Hellenic Republic, in accordance with the statement of the representatives of the governments of the euro area Member States on 7 May 2010, a loan agreement signed on 8 May 2010 by the European Commission on behalf of and for the account of the lenders, and an agreement between the lenders signed on 8 May 2010 also governing the mutual relations of the euro area Member States, with the exception of the Hellenic Republic, of course, with regard to the provision of coordinated bilateral loans under a loan agreement. Amendments and amendments to the law are necessary as a result of the amendment of the loan agreement of 8 May 2010, by which the European Commission granted a loan of EUR 80 billion to Greece with the maturity of the loan for four years. The loan is drawn on several tranches by checking the European Commission's compliance with Greece's conditions for the allocation of each of the following tranches. This seems very important to us in New Slovenia. When we talk about meeting the conditions of Greece, we are, of course, referring to the implementation of the Greek government's austerity measures. Some of these austerity measures already show positive effects. We have also considered them on the Committee on Finance and Budget, and in my own debate, I have somehow wanted to show that, through the positive effects of these austerity measures, Greece, too, also sees a light at the end of the tunnel in the euro area as a whole in the crisis. On 11 March 2011, the Presidents of the governments of the euro area countries agreed, in line with the practice of the International Monetary Fund, to extend the lending to Greece by seven and a half years, and to reduce the interest rate by 100 basis points, requiring an amendment or conclusion of the extension to the loan contract – by the way, the basis point is one hundred percent. The first addition to the loan contract was signed at 14. 6. 2011 and all euro area Member States, with the exception of Slovenia, have already implemented this supplement into their legislation. The second extension to the loan contract was signed on 27 February this year and further reduces the interest rates on the eurobor plus 150 basis points and the maturity of the loan to 15 years. This supplement is intended to allow Greece to return to financial markets and the sustainability of public debt. In Novi Slovenija we understand that a change of law is necessary in order to implement the first and second additions to the loan contract into the internal legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, so in Novi Slovenija we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendment cannot be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on State administration by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I welcome the representative of the Prime Minister's Government, Dr. Plitschanic, Mrs. Stefko Corada Purg. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Llecanic, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. This law lays down work in the field of ministries, following the Government Act, which was adopted four weeks ago, and is of a technical nature in this sense. Technical nature in this sense, because it is simpler to specify the working areas of individual ministries, which have already been established by the amendment of the Government Act. At the same time, the proposed law also abolishes certain government services and offices, which we have estimated to be more rational in transferring their tasks to individual departments. Once the law is adopted, a basis will be laid down for the adoption of sub-legislative acts that will provide a more precise definition of the internal organisation of ministries and also of the new system of job creation, in particular those which merge. In doing so, I would like to say that my main starting point as a minister responsible for public administration is that the public administration and the wider public sector are organised as rationally as possible, so that it will be more in the role of businesses and of us citizens, so that this service function will be further expressed. Therefore, this first step, which relates to organisational and functional rationalisation, is certainly necessary. This law before you is only the first step in this direction, so towards rationalisation in the public sector. In the past, it has happened too often that different organisations, bodies, institutions and other legal entities have been established with which often, too often, different kindergartens have been created, often associated with the interests of those who have created and sat in these kindergartens. Certainly such a phenomenon was not good for this country, even if it were not now in crisis. However, because we are in a crisis and because the situation in this country is very serious, which we are certainly all well aware of here, rationalisation, which aims at a more efficient organisation of the state administration and the wider public sector, is all the more important. The government has to work as a team. This applies to every government, and I am sure that our government will do the same, and this also applies to all the individual departments. We do not agree that departments, individual vertical areas, should create their own kindergartens in the form of various agencies, institutions, funds and other organizational forms. The correctness of such a direction, which I believe would have been followed by any government that would have come under this mandate, even if it had been a different government, in a different composition, is reflected by the majority of the Member States of the European Union, which have very rational governance and the wider public sector, with the essential objective and the essential point being that we have as little governance in the public sector as possible. Therefore, this organisational structure is such that it is as low as possible of intermediate levels, as few of these hierarchical levels as possible, because this is the only way to manage the country effectively. In doing so, my aim is to compare the public sector with measurable indicators over and over again with other countries in the European Union, with the aim of constantly trying to improve the situation with these comparisons, but of course in the function of our economy and our citizens, to whom the state administration and the wider public sector are intended. We must not forget that the state administration, the public sector here, is here to serve citizens and businesses, the economy, which is particularly important in this situation. This means that the public administration and the public sector are not themselves intended and are not without competition. The public administration, including the public sector, also has competition, i.e. the competition of other state administrations, other public sectors in other countries. So we have to compare ourselves with them and compete here in this sense, as is the case in the private sector. As it is said, this law before you is the first step towards rationalization that I describe. The government has set a clear goal of up to 30. 6th this year makes the next, bigger, more important step in this direction, thus towards rationalising the public administration in a more important way, in particular the wider public sector. For the reasons that I mentioned – this relates to the part where I talked about the past too often setting up various institutions, agencies, etc., which were often the purpose of themselves, but were created by a number of sectoral laws – it will be necessary to change a whole bunch of these sectoral laws, which means that the National Assembly will have a lot to do with changing these laws, and we, as a government, as it were, have imposed 30. 6. As that milestone, the Deadline to which we will prepare changes to these sectoral laws [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. Your time is up. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. I give the floor to President Eva Irgl to present the report of my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 2nd emergency meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. In a supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proponent, the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plicanič, said that the proposed law followed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which had redesigned the ministers who are in the government, and also laid down in the transitional provisions the obligation to harmonise the Law on State Administration no later than three months after the oath of the new ministers. Ms Valentina Marolt, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and technical aspects and had made certain written comments to each article, which had been duly corrected by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. A representative of the Council of State, State Councillor Bogomir Vnučec, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposed changes, as they believe they follow the trend towards reducing costs and increasing efficiency and ensuring the operationality of the Government. In the longer debate, the opposition MPs first presented a general assessment of the bill in view of the greater rationality of the state administration it was intended to pursue. It was estimated that the novel does not contain concrete substantive solutions and calculations of the financial effects it is intended to achieve. The Coalition Members stressed that all parties to their pre-election programmes had announced the rationalisation of the state administration by reducing the number of ministries, offices and government services, or by bringing them together in related areas, and therefore the criticism in this regard was unfounded. They considered that measures, such as those proposed in the draft law, were essential for rationalisation in the public sector in the initial phase. The representative added that the proposal for a law was mainly a technical law that would serve as the basis for the preparation of further concrete rationalisation solutions to be prepared by the Government by the middle of this year. In the debate on the amendments tabled, opposition Members pointed out the planned abolition of the Office for Equal Opportunities and the transfer of its tasks under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. However, the Coalition Members have expressed their conviction that the envisaged abolition of the Office will not reduce the concern for this area or that its content will not be reduced. The representative of the proposal added that the abolition of the Office was only a starting point for organisational rationalisation and would not directly affect the content of the area of equal opportunities. Regarding the placement of the State Prosecutor's Office under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, the opposition Members expressed an opinion on the inappropriateness and even unconstitutionality of such a solution. In this regard, the Coalition Members stressed that the State Prosecutor's Office was placed in the Ministry of the Interior's Department on the initiative of the National Gazette of Gregor Virant, where the opinion on the greater efficiency of the State Prosecutor's Office prevailed if this would only work within the Ministry of the Interior. The Committee also adopted amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the National Letters of Gregor Virant, the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the New Slovenia as of 9, 15, 17, 18 and 19th, and also adopted its amendment to Article 7. Thus, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Thank you. A colleague of Irgl can just stay behind the speaker's desk, as it is time for a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. The first is the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, on its behalf, Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President, once again. Once again, I welcome the distinguished Minister, Ambassador and Member of Parliament! We will, of course, support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it follows the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has reduced the number of ministries. The draft law is thus regulated in more detail by the Ministry and its fields of work, and the working areas of certain government services are also transferred under the responsibility of individual ministries. A substantive and organisational grouping of tasks, whose coordination is essential for policy-making in specific administrative areas, is proposed, which, in our opinion, will also ensure greater operationality and improved functioning of the Government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also convinced that no one in this difficult economic, financial and social situation, when some individuals do not have a basic survival and therefore a decent, life-worthy person, does not want the Government to be ineffective and unable to resolve the situation. However, this requires radical changes in order to meet the challenges ahead of it, including the reorganisation of the state administration. Of course, in doing so, he also needs the opposition to listen to such decisions. The Law on State Administration, which we have today in the parliamentary procedure, also regulates the transition of the tasks of public officials, equipment, premises, documentation and budgetary spending rights, all with a view to reducing the cost of operation and linking the content as much as possible with individuals who have already proven themselves to their expertise. During yesterday's debate on the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, it has also been shown in recent weeks that the most problems related to the question of the reorganisation of ministries represent the opposition's transfer of the Prosecutor's Office from the Ministry of Justice under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. As explained by the representatives of the List of Gregor Virant, who was also in the negotiations on the Coalition Treaty, who proposed that the Prosecutor's Office move to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that this does not seem to them today, and that this is still a good enough solution, which is worth an experiment. We are also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and the public expects us to allow such conditions to begin to deal effectively with detection and, above all, with the pursuit of economic crime. In part, however, I understand that the opposition has some kind of problem in this regard. Given that the president of the biggest opposition party, Mr Zoran Jankovic, has repeatedly said that there is no corruption in Slovenia, even though he is walking on the very thin edge of illegal and corrupt practices, then I understand this attitude towards these solutions. Even if we know that, on the other hand, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Mr Goran Klemenčič, says that we have completely drawn on the line of persecution of corruption and economic crime. It is high time, therefore, that the Government is also addressing such issues, in particular, that the prosecution, together with criminals, should speed up both detection and prosecution of economic crime and that, finally, in this country, someone is already responsible for irregularities, especially for damage to state property and for such and other forms of economic crime. But not to pursue only the chicken thieves who stole, as the Minister of the Interior would say, pâté. The constant observations of the opposition as to how unwisely this reorganisation has taken place by the Government are, in fact, irrelevant in these difficult times, but they are pervasive. Any government that becomes operational and gains the trust of people to lead the country has the right to establish such a way of action in which it can best work and successfully achieve the goals it has set with coalition partners in the coalition contract. Slovenia needs a country that provides citizens with quality services at a normal price. The first step in reducing the cost of the country and increasing its effectiveness is to reduce the number of ministries. Even during the electoral campaign, all parties, both in pre-election meetings and in their programmes, stated that they would reduce the number of ministries, reorganise public administrations and try to reduce the costs of this extremely large apparatus. Today, MEPs and members of the opposition, mainly from the positive Slovenia, are repeating how bold the new government is in such a way to cut down on the functioning of ministries and offices. This course of action does not indicate that they will be constructive and responsible opposition. Of course, we will support the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Immediately in the introduction, let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration because in some articles, in our opinion, the law is inconsistent with the Constitution, particularly in the part relating to the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior over the prosecution and consequently the possibility of human rights violations. Nor do we support the law because of the inadequacy of the implementation of individual policies. By shutting down individual services and offices, we do not know exactly how these policies should be implemented further. As a result of such inconsistencies, the law has no precise financial implications, which may mean that the state administration will be even more expensive than it is today. These are the reasons why we will not support this law, and we also justify them more broadly with the following. Slovenia, as a rule of law, has a separate division of power over the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Any legislative solution which interferes with this principle or merely allows the appearance of the possibility of interfering with the legislative branch of power in the judiciary shows a lack of conformity with the Constitution. The law also does not distinguish the function of detecting offenders from the function of prosecuting offenders; the detection is carried out by the police, the prosecution and it is correct that the prosecution also supervises the work of the police. In this case, it will be reversed. The police will even be able to supervise the Prosecutor's Office or the Minister of the Interior. Thus, the Minister of the Interior will have an impact on whom the police will detect or monitor and who will be persecuted by the prosecution. There is a danger here that some alleged perpetrators of crimes will be prosecuted at the request of the Minister of the Interior. This is, of course, contrary to the principle of the Constitution, which speaks of the protection of human rights. We must also point out in the Law on State Administration that any reduction in ministries is expected to bring rationalisation into operation in the state administrations, but as we follow the decisions of the Government before the adoption of this law, we note that the Government is increasing the number of advisers to individual cabinets in the ministries. In fact, the number of consultants from four to six is increasing in the cabinets of the ministries, and in all of these it is immediately detected that they are classified in the highest possible class of payment. Here, of course, the question arises to us how the Government, as a partner in social negotiations, will act against unions, especially because the Government is also planning to reduce wages, for example, teachers, reduce pensions, forgive the police. So what will be the credibility of the government in contrast to the unions, from which it expects them to agree to reduce the rights of employees in the public sector? This may also later have consequences for the resolution of the economic and financial crisis. The inadequacy of the law is also reflected in reckless decisions regarding the abolition of certain offices and services. To draw attention to the fact that this law does not have to influence the Decision establishing the Office for Climate Change, it is only one of those cases that shows recklessness. However, we would like to point out that it is the Decree establishing the Office for Climate Change that places Slovenia both within the European Union and in the international circle in a number of countries that are aware of the impact of climate change. The abolition of the Equal Opportunities Office also shares a similar fate and does not have a specific form of action in the future. Last but not least, inadequacy with the Office of Nationality, which is being transferred even to the Ministry of the Interior, which means that the repressive body will take care of our minorities. These are very unusual solutions, and we will not support such solutions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Citizens, the economic and financial situation of the countries require a more tighter public administration; they require rationalisation, optimization, debarcation. This is probably what we agree with all those who are sitting here today in this Chamber of the National Assembly, and this fact must also be accepted by the state authorities, their leaders and, last but not least, by employees who must help with their knowledge, work and conduct to carry out the tasks laid down in the Constitution, law and regulations. So let us not blind ourselves to the fact that changes are not necessary, and let us not fear them when they are before us, but let us find opportunities in them for more effective work. Such amendments are made by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, which we are now deciding on. This is a technical law which must be in line with the Government Act adopted by the National Assembly on 26 January this year. With it, the Government wants to ensure the rational organisation of the state administration, which will enable the government to be more operational and better used for human resources and other resources. In our pre-election programmes, all of us have promised to reduce the number of ministries, abolish institutions of public administration that are not needed or whose tasks can be done in a different manner. By adopting this law, we will therefore give the Government, ministers, the opportunity to start serious work in a form of organisation in which they themselves see the possibility of optimal implementation of the tasks, for which they have also taken full responsibility. However, it is essential that further analyses and optimisation of public administration processes be carried out on the basis of these changes, which are the basis for rationalisation. That's how the real work just starts. For all of this, the National Gazette will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. In the Civil Code, however, we regret that no agreement has been reached in the coalition on the jurisdiction of the State Prosecutor's Office. On the basis of professional arguments, the National List proposed more effective and closer cooperation between the criminal police and the prosecution before the elections and during coalition coordination with a view to uncompromising prosecution of crime and corruption. In the vast part of the professional public, the proposed solution was met with disapproval between the judicial institutions and the opposition. That is why, at the proposal of our Minister, we have proposed that the State Prosecutor's Office remain at the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. In doing so, we wanted to close the unnecessary front in order to make it easier for us to focus on the real priority issues of economic crisis resolution, financial consolidation and the establishment of a rule of law. Unfortunately, the proposal was not adopted among the coalition partners, so it remains the responsibility of the prosecution to remain at the Ministry of the Interior. We have entered the coalition with serious intentions and full responsibility to work together to find solutions that will lead the country out of the crisis on the path of economic development. Therefore, we will not violate the signed agreement and, despite the fact that our proposal has not been adopted by the coalition, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u36	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! Good-bye, everybody! I will take the position of the DeSUS Group, which is next. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law which is a logical consequence at the beginning of the year of the adopted Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the transitional provisions imposed compliance with the Law on State Administration, no later than three months. The bill introduces the rationalisation of the state administration by combining some of the resources. According to the proposal, the competent ministries will also take over the tasks of the Offices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the Office for Equal Opportunities, the Office for Religious Communities, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationalities and the Services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Climate Change. At first glance, it is a clear matter which would not require any more discussion if we did not know what was going on. By this I am referring to the application of hot bone, which is called the State Prosecutor's Office and is being transferred by this proposal from the judiciary to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We are witnessing a heated professional and political debate because the profession disagrees with the policy decision. We also had problems in this regard in the DeSUS Group, as we advocated that the prosecution remain in the judicial district, which is also my personal opinion. However, at DeSUS we then decided that the Government's decision to transfer the Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of Internal Affairs is not opposed, and for that reason, because this is what our party signed. As long as the coalition agreement doesn't change, the matter will remain as envisaged. Since the coalition treaty has not changed once again and since the Constitutional Court has not yet decided on the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of this transfer of the prosecution, as well as the National Gazette of Gregor Virant has withdrawn the proposal for the return of the prosecution to the judiciary, we will support DeSUS's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We live in a troubled time, at a time when pessimism seems to wrap up at every turn: in the eyes of a young man who is hopelessly seeking a way for his own independence, in the eyes of a mother who creates miracles, when he has to satisfy his hungry children with minimal income, in the eyes of an elderly lady who lives in fear from month to month, whether she will survive with her earned pension. We found ourselves in a situation where no citizen, whether a student, a student, a worker, a farmer or a pensioner, is not easy. That's why we have a difficult task ahead of us. We must return optimism and hope to our country, we must begin here and today. In order to accelerate economic development, create new jobs and promote people's well-being, we need a country that will not be liberalised, but will provide people with the best support for their activities and which will make their lives easier to the best of their ability. It should be borne in mind that this will not be achieved by the accumulation of different institutions, but by orientation, content, in the search for concrete solutions and measures. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration represents a step towards a stronger, more efficient and more rational state administration. With the transfer of individual offices to the competent ministries, the quality orientation targets are being met, as officials who have previously dealt with administrative tasks related to the functioning of the offices will now be more likely to devote themselves to substantive and professional work. On this basis, costs will be reduced and the efficiency and operationality of individual areas will be increased. With the bill we realize two old wisdoms, namely that success does not determine form, but always and only content, and that as quantity increases quality always declines. We also do not need a multitude of such or other institutions for effective public administration, but specific content. On the other hand, there are more and more different institutions, and less time and energy are being devoted to content. We welcome and support the application of the law in the Slovenian People's Party because of our desire for the fastest and more productive service to the economy and the best possible exercise of the rights of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, distinguished minister, welcome! If memory doesn't fool me, at the time of the election campaign, all the parties stood up for a slim state administration, and this law, which is before us, is practically doing just that. On yesterday's committee, we had a very nice discussion with our colleagues from Positive Slovenia and with Mrs Potrata, but I can't help feeling that we were dealing with how to make a change without any changes. I don't know that answer, unfortunately. Like I said yesterday, maybe someone will find out how to make changes without change. Yesterday there was much talk about the abolition of such and different offices, ministries, etc. Once again, I would like to make it very clear: it is not about any suspension, it is about reorganisation, it is about attachment, it is about different mergers between agencies, offices and so on. I have a feeling that everything is too interested in the structure itself, but not so much content, with the exception of that, I must say, Mrs Potrata was very much concerned yesterday with the content not so much with the structure, and that seems fine to me. In a way, we are talking a lot these days about rationalisation in the state administration. I mentioned three steps yesterday, and I would like to repeat them again today. The first step in rationalisation is to bring together related and similar state authorities, agencies and offices. After this first step is done, the second step is to look at what things are being doubled due to merger: we certainly don't need two directors, we don't need two human resources services and we could list them. The last, third step; when we find out what those synergies are in the joint offices and agencies, we can also identify those public officials that we can thank for their cooperation. The government does nothing but follow these three steps, and that seems fine to us. Yesterday it was also repeatedly explained that there were no calculations and that there were no studies. Those who carefully read the explanation could see from this explanation what the financial consequences will be, and what this really means. The government's task is to move things around better, to move things forward, and it will only be able to do so by making concrete changes. A few more words about celebrity – now truly famous – the prosecution. We will probably all agree that both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice and Public Administration are both members of the government, the executive branch of the government, and if we all, together – in Positive Slovenia and in the Social Democrats – believe that the prosecution is an independent body, then we have nothing to fear, then it is no matter which of these members of the government is the head: either an internal or a judicial minister; unless you think and think that this minister can give specific instructions, how and in what way any prosecutor should act. That is controversial, but he must not do so now and will not be allowed to do so either by the Minister of the Interior or by the Minister of Justice. However, the task of any minister is to create the conditions for these prosecutors to be able to do well. We all know, and this has been explained several times, and I'm just going to repeat once again that the main problem is that the prosecution and criminalist line didn't work well. Since the prosecutors did not steer the crime scene well, they collected bad evidence because they did not have good evidence, the proceedings in the court were falling. I think that's the main reason why the government is trying to move forward here. Finally, all I'd say is that it's time to stop being dramatic about technical laws. There will be many more laws, as well as many concrete proposals, where all parties will be able to propose their initiatives, how to resolve this Slovenia, and I think there will be a point where the most political profit can be forged. Of course, New Slovenia will support this law before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Thank you. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group will support the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. In the presentation of my position, I will focus only on the provisions of Articles 7, 15 and 18 of the bill relating to the organisation of the Government's activities in the field of the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions of indigenous Hungarian and Italian communities and of the Roma communities. From the perspective of indigenous national communities, the proposed solution is comprehensible and acceptable in view of the circumstances and the reduction of the operating costs of the public authorities. To organise the operation of the Office of Nationality under a similar name or otherwise named within the Ministry of the Interior, it was forecast at the time of the formation of the current coalition. Such solutions are found in several countries that are considered democratic, with a high standard of human rights. In this context, the emphasis on some principled repression does not seem to be an important reason or argument. In the previous mandate, we have repeatedly stressed that, from a political point of view, it was not the best solution that the Office, although appointed as a government, was subordinated to the General Secretariat of the Government. And it's for substantive, not principled reasons. This made the political weight of the Government's or the state's constitutional obligations weaker than it would have been in the Prime Minister's office, for example. In doing so, I must be honest to say that the Prime Minister himself has dealt with a very positive matter here in many cases. From this point of view, there was no problem, but if we are talking in principle about this issue. So, the last form, this is the solution within the cabinet of the President of the Government, would probably be the most ideal solution today. However, since the new coalition has introduced significant organisational changes due to the difficult financial situation, this solution to the organisation of the content of the activities carried out so far within the Office of Nationality remains acceptable in the coming period within the Ministry of the Interior. Our decisions are also conditioned by the fact that the Minister, a member of the Government, will be directly responsible for this area from now on. This is very important in terms of the political weight of the area, as I said before. The political problem of this issue, or the State's obligations in relation to the national communities, is further reinforced by the fact that the State Secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government responsible for coordinating the work between the National Assembly and the Government also has a special task and care for the participation of members of the national communities with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So, despite the support expressed, the proposed solution and the law, I stress that in our Group of Members, we will strongly raise our voice if the new solution does not prove to be successful or more successful than it has been before. To conclude, with regard to the concrete organisation of the Government's activities in the field of the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions relating to the rights of indigenous national communities, we expect a concrete definition of operational action and a clear substantive and formal autonomy of this specific area within the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u43	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! In Positive Slovenia, we do not oppose the changes envisaged and do not oppose the Government's right to design and make these changes in the same way that it thinks it is most appropriate. We have highlighted this many times. We also have no problems with rationalisation, optimization and demobilization. All the parties, including ours, in the pre-election period, stressed that this was necessary. If our client took over power, this rationalisation, optimisation and demobilization would be designed, explained and carried out. Since that didn't happen, we expect the same thing from you. Unfortunately, we also expect more concrete solutions from big words and direction. We have not even seen concrete solutions in the coalition treaty, which is, for example, normal, nor in the government law, but we would expect to be able to see slowly the strategy where the government is taking the state administration. The first suitable law for such guidance would be the Law on State Administration. We regret the review and comparison of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an act to be carried out, and the Law on State Administration shows no added value. In the Law on State Administration, it is only repeated which ministries the government will have and how these ministries will have regulated powers. We have learned a little more about the abolition of several offices and agencies, but nothing about what are the substantive reasons and the government's orientations for such solutions. Without substantive justification, however, there remains room for political speculation of the type: they stop this or that in order to get rid of these or those personnel, hire their own; they abolish the Office for Equal Opportunities because they do not support equal opportunities and so on. The Minister talks about optimisation, talks about functional and organisational solutions in the law, about technical law. Fellow Members are teaching us that concrete solutions are only being followed in sub-legislative acts. In this regard, it should be noted that sub-laws are not the right way of dealing with the rights of individual social groups, but, above all, we cannot expect financial solutions in sub-laws. The content of the individual solutions, at least within certain frameworks, the assessments of some optimisations in the form of people and resources fall within the law before us, especially if the law constitutes such an important intervention in the regulation so far and to such a large extent changes the regime that has been in force in our country. We were also disappointed in the financial assessments of the law. The law has no financial implications, it's written down. So why all these changes, suspensions, and reassignments? The financial consequences are supposed to be positive! At this stage, we do not expect you to make an accurate assessment of how much you will save, but only some indicative estimates of what savings you expect on the basis of individual solutions. If there are no such assessments, if there are no substantive explanations of the law, the public cannot understand where you are taking this train, and we as an opposition cannot play our constructive role and their control role, point to certain shortcomings and propose better solutions. The same is true of an area that has already been said so much that we are truly repeating ourselves. If this law and the Government Act show any major change, this is certainly a change in the area of the State Prosecutor's Office. Colleagues teach us what all this fuss and talking when it's no different, because prosecutors are independent of themselves and no minister can influence them. If that is true, then why such major organisational changes, the establishment of a new Directorate, the newly established Judicial Office for the Prosecutors, new solutions in the form of organisation of work, physical relocation and so on. Then why doesn't everything stay the way it is?Oh, my God! As a quality opposition, we cannot help but point out that the entire professional public, both left and right, is criticising this decision. That this decision is foreseeable and very likely contrary to the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, contrary to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, contrary to the Bordoya Declaration adopted by the Consultative Council of Judges and Prosecutors, contrary to the opinion of some important persons, who also respect your option, say Mrs Barbara Brezigar. All of this obviously doesn't convince you [[...]] There has also been disagreement in the coalition, and the party of the National Gazette of Gregor Virant and DeSUS opposes the solution, also New Slovenia agrees that it would be appropriate to keep the prosecution under justice, but obviously there are reasons for insistence and blindly insisting on a new solution and we cannot imagine otherwise than that these reasons are political. Apparently, it's important who's going to prosecute him, how he's going to be persecuted, and it's not Minister Plitschani, it's Minister Gorenak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Since all the amendments tabled are mutually binding, we will discuss all the articles to which the amendments have been tabled and all the amendments tabled together. Therefore, I am putting to the debate paragraphs 7, 9, 16 and 19 and amendments, on the one hand of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Social Democrats, and on the other hand the groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the National Gazette, DeSUS, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, to this article. I'd like to ask you to report to the debate. Check-in is on. We're starting a debate. The first one has the word Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Can we switch? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Sure. Mr Zoran Jankovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have also advocated rationalisation, which was envisaged in a number of ministries when we all did so, and we do not oppose it. When we passed the Government Act and confirmed the Government, we did not participate in the government, and then we proposed that the prosecution remain under justice and that we keep the Ministry of Culture as an independent body. Today, however, my question is here when I see Minister Pličanič, who is undoubtedly qualified to lead the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, including the prosecution, how you accept that you are obviously the only minister who holds you for a trial period. You're the only one assigned to show your results in one year, otherwise you can't be Minister of Justice anymore. Today, it is interesting how the Citizens' List of Gregor Virant, who proposed this, was already in the talks to be held under internal affairs and then changed to the intervention of President DeSUS Erjavac, who pointed out the constitutional dispute. Today I was enlightened by Mrs Irgle that this transfer to the interior ministry has only one purpose: it is obvious that Zoran Jankovic must be persecuted. I accept that, so let him do it. When Mrs Irgle speaks of my words, I would teach her to look at what I said in the debates on corruption. To sum up what we have heard today from Mr Tonin, who has made it very clear in his public statements that it is appropriate for the prosecution to remain under justice – what the entire professional public says and I have not seen any opposition – this is a strange change in recent days. It is very interesting that Mrs Porotat – there is no one here today – says that she personally opposes this transfer, opposes her president, but because it is in the coalition contract, this must be done and will be voted in favour of this transfer. Today I am enlightened that the coalition treaty is a higher body than the National Assembly. I thought that here we were the highest authority that lays down and lays down the rules that the executive body then enforces. I ask: Are we really so subordinate to the coalition treaty or are you subordinate to the coalition treaty that you will vote against your personal opinion and against what the profession says is right in favour of this proposal? I would like to propose to the Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Letter of Gregor Virant and DeSUS that they support our amendment and, for the sake of their respect for the Minister who is most qualified, to leave the Prosecutor's Office under justice. Then let Minister Plitchanic write what Mrs Irgle said, who is the first on the list to be persecuted and then the results are determined in a year, two, three or four. If we do this today, in spite of our opinion, both DeSUS and you in the Civil Gazette, then we have taken the credibility of this National Assembly. Unless you're in public with the President of the National Assembly, they're not another form of fun game with the President of the Government when he's opposed to something, and then he says, "Now, whatever you have, you take responsibility." When you said the first word to take responsibility, you did not say the second part of the sentence, or it also applied to the Minister of the Interior who will take over, the same criterion that must show the results by 1. 3. In 2013, otherwise, he's making an irrevocable withdrawal. It's sad for me that ministers split up after where they come from, not after what they know. How do you feel, Dr. Lulcanic, I really don't know, but you didn't get a good starting point. I propose once again that we leave the prosecution under justice and that we do not raise these doubts. Once again, I call on all Members of Parliament and Members, both ours and the SD, who have proposed the amendment, as well as Members of the National List and DeSUS, to support their Minister and to support in particular what the profession says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u49	Thank you. The word is now by Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me get started on the joke. I'm going to get involved with my buddy Tonin when he says we're all trying to make the state administration lean. According to the latest information I read in the paper, it would be best to lose weight so strongly that we leave the decision on all state matters to the SDS Executive Board alone and exclusively. Because it was a message that the SDS allowed the Executive Committee and so on in state affairs. But of course, given that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration is a much more serious matter than, of course, the conclusions and games you go to in the coalition, it worries me. I'm really worried. I am also concerned that instead of defending why these amendments to the State Administration Act are necessary, and especially good for the functioning of this country, the largest party in the country is talking about the walking of the President of Positive Slovenia on the edge. As far as I know, there is no criminal procedure and, of course, I could rhetorically ask where the Prime Minister is going at the moment, in three countries, so that I will not be rude. But, look, the problem I have in shutting down certain offices and agencies. It was the most said of the prosecution. I still insist that we make a mistake, even though we have given a one-year mandate for the Minister to prove himself in this one-year term. We are still going against the decisions of the Constitutional Court, against the conclusions of the Bordoj Declaration and also against the conclusions of the European Court of Human Rights, which speak of the prosecution being tried by another branch of government, not by a repressive body of the State and cannot be subordinated to the police. But see, in the European Year of Culture, we have the capital in Maribor, we have abolished the cultural ministry. Now – and I'm going to ask my colleagues again from SDS – we're shutting down the Book Office. You know that the Office for the Book was Mr Simoniti's greatest achievement in the previous term, when the Minister was in 2004-2008, that the SDS was boasting with this agency that this was a big deal. I want to know why this agency is being suspended in addition to the Ministry of Culture. What has changed in the heads of the SDS and in this SDS Executive Committee to find that Mr Simoniti has made a fatal mistake in 2008? At the time of the application for membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the United Nations Human Rights Council, 2016–2018, if I recall the trip of this country and the foreign ministry concerning Belarus, which left us a mark of the country that does not advocate respect for human rights, we shall terminate the Office for Equal Opportunities. In fact, this country does not give citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia any positive signals about certain things that are necessary for this country. I will not talk about what culture means for this country, what human rights mean for this country. Finally, this country has grown on human rights, in the fight for human rights and, therefore, I will not support such a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u51	Thank you. Alenka Bratusek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! I am disappointed that the first step of this government or three parties in the coalition is a policy of submission. If you have listened well, three parties in this coalition have submitted to one. I think that if we could step together, what we say is necessary in these times of crisis, we could still achieve what is right, which is in line with our constitution and which is advocated by the entire professional public in Slovenia. Obviously, Mr Virant, Mr Erjavec is more successful in this coalition than you are, because he has succeeded in making a change that economic diplomacy remains at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You told me yesterday that's why the coalition agreement changed. So there's a little bit too little will for the prosecution, and we've been doing this for a month to run or run a little theater for the public, and you're trying to tell people that you tried, but it didn't work. If you listen well to your colleagues in the SDS, you are for the prosecution to agree with Minister Gorenak, who is responsible in the Civil Code. Now, if I listen to my fellow citizens' lists, they're responsible for the SDS. You can understand that there is a lot of confusion between us and other people, because obviously we have no culprit, but it will be like you did at the beginning, despite many, many warnings. Now I am going to touch more on my own the assessment of the financial consequences of the proposed law and I will read to you all, if you have failed, what it says under the financial consequences of this law. "The bill has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. The legal solutions follow the already adopted government law and therefore it is expected to be rationalised and thus reduced costs." Yesterday, on the Committee, I asked who or what it depended on whether these expectations would be realized or not. Of course there was no answer. It was said, we'll see how and what happens. I think if you're going to do some things before you know how to evaluate, you should know how to show them, because in the end, we're going to want to check it out. But if there's no number in there, of course just every number then show like why these some things were worth it. Yesterday and today, we are hearing that we are opposed to change and rationalisation and to a stronger state and public administration. And it would be very good if one person specifically said when we said that, because one such word was not spoken. It has been said that we would like to, and that is why we have also publicly called on the Government to convey to us what the effects of this will be, because it is likely that we and the Slovenian public deserve that we do not do so in our minds. So we can jump first and find out if the water's in the pool or not. If it's okay, we're successful. But if he doesn't, someone's going to suffer the consequences. And we've heard a lot of times that we should just let this government go to work. Absolutely, we will be very pleased with any concrete solutions. It is in the field of human resources that this government is already working very well and actively. But you haven't heard our critics say it's illegal, it's political personnel and so on. You are the one who has published on your side the political change counter made by the previous government. You have this right, but all you have to do is tell me how much it costs. The costs of replacing the directors you've made, and I didn't add up everything, but at one of the government's own meetings, there were these costs of 150 000 euros. It could be a little bit, but for a lot of people, it's a big deal. The supplements added by this government to employees in cabinets, 20% of the allowance in addition to the normal regular salary, which the law certainly allows. But how are you going to explain to "ordinary" public servants that they have to save if those sitting in the next room get 20% more? I don't know. Last time, two days ago, we read in the paper how the Minister of Economy, along with an existing driver, brought his chauffeur to the Ministry. I don't know, he could have qualities that the existing chauffeur didn't have. But I'm concerned that the only thing that distinguishes them is one party's membership card. There are now 14 or 16 people employed in the Office of the Minister for Economic Affairs. However, I tell you that despite such a number not the Minister, not one person in his cabinet could call and apologize to the Minister for failing to come to the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where we talked about one of the audits relating to the use of European funds. I think this is a very important topic, how and what is happening, what was wrong, what should be corrected. But it just can't, despite 16 employees in the cabinet. In short, there are words and promises when you're in the opposition and in the election campaign, and there are actions when you sit in a government chair or a minister's chair. This is clear. Once again, I ask you not to say that we are against rationalisation, against a more delicate state and public administration. We just want what we decide to be based on some arguments and figures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor to prepare Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that Positive Slovenia has spoken the word 'Executive Committee of the Slovenian Democratic Party' because the public can finally know that we have a Slovenian Democratic Party as a well-organised party and that the party of the Slovenian Democratic Party is not only President Janez Janša. However, we would continue to refer to the very topic that we are dealing with today. Colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia cited some of the things that we discussed yesterday on the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Yeah, of course it takes analysis, studies and so on. But it costs a lot of money. They did not just hear the argument made by the coalition Members and the Minister himself that the practical amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration are in practice only a technical law governing whose powers and activities are recorded within each ministry. Today, before the National Assembly, we repeat how we have abolished certain services, offices and so on, as we have abolished the Ministry of Culture. No, dear colleagues, we're not shutting anything down, but we're just reorganizing. Speaking of financial implications, let me touch only what I said yesterday on the Committee. If we look at the Law on Amendments to the Government Act, which you have proposed with your leader of the parliamentary group, you have not done an analysis of the financial effects, because the financial effects and all other matters will also be presented by our ministers and the Government in the sub-legislative acts, even though you are demeaning them. For then it will be clear exactly how the internal organization will be, and we are not regulating this law today. When you say that we do, you introduce a new term, "ordinary civil servants". You know, for me, all public servants employed in public administration are extremely important. We cannot say here that the coalition and coalition partners do not have a hearing for all public servants. But when you talk about the Government abolishing the Office for Equal Opportunities, we do not abolish it, but the powers are transferred to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, that the European Union does not prescribe this here, and that we do not have less hearing, including problems and problems of equality before the law. By asking you to take advantage of what you said today, that there is no appointed minister on some Committee, that you do not get certain matters on the table, that there is no explanation that there is no financial assessment. All of this you have the opportunity, Members and Members of Parliament, to address both the President of the Government and the individual ministers by asking questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Mirko Brulc, prepare yourself for the Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u56	Nice greetings to all present! SDS President Janez Janša has announced the results of the elections very quickly again in the early elections. This law leads this way. It goes because we work for the refugees in Europe when we transfer the prosecution to the interior ministry. Why am I worried? Because it's Berlusconism. He too tried to bring the justice of the executive branch into line. Why? Why am I still worried? Because the SDS has a list of 244 eminent citizens and citizens to be "lustered". This list could be even bigger now. This will be done by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, who we have listened to here. We know how it works. Look, say the opposition has no ear, because we don't know if we're going to save 100 euros or 10 million euros. We know it's about human resources being arranged as you see it. On some level, it's very normal, because everyone has to have people around them who trust them, but there are no calculations. The words "let's wait a year and see what happens" we can't land. Look, I strongly oppose the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. I've heard a few times today that you're not shutting down the Ministry of Culture, and we won't have a Minister for Culture. We are two million people, surrounded by great nations. The impact on our culture of all Romanesque, German and other nations is great. We had an extremely organized culture in the greatest times of our history. In the national liberation battle – the partisans were the only ones in the world who had partisan units named after poets, writers. There was no such thing anywhere in the world. I don't want to go to Trubar and I don't know where. But you don't care. I think you're making a huge mistake. But this is already being seen in all other areas of culture, public agencies, film and so on. Look, burden the Minister of Justice and Public Administration with having to give public recognition in one year's time on the table and then it will or will not. All right, let's give the other ministers the same inventory. I have a proposal. In one year, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space shall sign municipal spatial plans for all municipalities. For me, this will be the best minister in this government! The Minister of the Interior, who has written in these documents, is also responsible for monitoring and ensuring the protection of special rights in Slovenia of the living Roma community. All right, let's make sure that all Roma are socialised in one year, just as they are socialised in Prekmurje. He'll make a great minister for me! In one year, the Minister of Health should ensure that 40% fewer Slovenians and Slovenians are sick and that we are healthier. I'll vote for him! Let's talk like that, then we'll have the same vats for everyone. And I could list other ministers. I will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 7, prepared by the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, because I think this medicine is for this government, which I want it to be good for and to last for four years. Seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Mr Zoran Jankovic should be ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u59	I'm sorry to have Mr. Joseph Kavticnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, MEPs and Members of Parliament! The introduction to the Law on State Administration states that the law will have no social consequences. I don't believe it. Because all those who have heard the words of the President of the Government that what will be abolished will be abolished, and the new system will introduce new jobs, those who will not get a seat after the new system will be superfluous – they are already among them. Will this mean that there will be no social consequences? Will they go to the Employment Service? Where are they going? I think these are very, very serious social consequences. So much for a start. I hope that Mr Tonin will also mark this debate as a pleasant one, especially because I will not re-substantiate – but twice already – why I strongly oppose the abolition of the Office for Equal Opportunities. There are legal reasons for this, and there is a policy of equal opportunities to be integrated into all policies at European level. We are part of a policy recognised by the United Nations. It is true that the European Union does not prescribe how the state will regulate this, whether it has one organ or more organs. In any event, there is a Ministry of Labour and Equal Opportunities in neighbouring Italy. So much for that. Now I say to the others. When we talk about equal opportunities and savings, I am aware that saving in the times we are must be an important component, but then I would expect the same treatment. Once again, I read very carefully Article 9, which defines the powers of the Ministry of Justice. I listened to the minister who said that agencies, offices and institutions should be abolished and brought together if there was any chance of saving. I would like to ask the distinguished Minister Plicanič – i.e., in the discussions so far, I have not heard what he intends to do with the National Reconciliation Centre, which operates at the Ministry of Justice, which has a director with ten employees and two heads of different units. This institution was established by a government regulation in 2008. It is said that at the time, the establishment cost more than a million 200 000 euros to receive the premises. If you look at the budget, there are around €400,000 in the budget each year and the Equal Opportunities Office receives around €100 to €150,000 more. You know, it's very interesting what the workplace is. It's not exactly defined. They're researching a semi-historical history. This is supposed to be a core activity. They are engaged in postwar graves and graves, and there is a special body that operates at the Ministry of Labour, which interferes with history until national reconciliation is created. The lessons of history and the content of the teaching, as far as I know, are not decided by the political body, but are decided by the professional bodies that are placed in the Ministry, now the mega ministry that has everything. It should be noted that those who are employed here are employed as officials of the Ministry of Justice. They do not need to confirm research references on re-elections where they should demonstrate whether they have been successful or not. They also have such a fondness for their consciences as those who evaluated the work of history departments at both universities, Ljubljana and Maribor. I see unequal treatment here. For both institutions, both the Equal Opportunities Office and the Study Centre, they could say that they are dealing with human rights. Then I would expect you to be treated equally. Now perhaps to another, more interesting context of all of this. The placement of the Prosecutor's Office in the Ministry of Internal Affairs is unacceptable for the Social Democrats, we have already said that. However, I would also like to point out that this arrangement is neither professionally justified nor otherwise, but it is highly politicized. I'm not going into a family dispute in the coalition. They'll sort these out on their own, but it's highly politicized. I'll make another contribution to this mosaic. The Director of Directorate or State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, who will be responsible for the prosecution, should be Mr Robert Marolt. This gentleman has a very interesting history. Three days before Pahor's government swore, he was also appointed Attorney General. Now this defence function is supposed to rest for a period of time at the Ministry of the Interior, although it does not provide for such a law, because it is simply because of the conflict of interest that this is incompatible with the law, and that respectable Mr Marolt should say good-bye to the defence function because he still has a notariat in his reserve. It is a matter of extreme politicalization and let me remind you of this in the Government, which raises questions about the legitimacy of the recruitment of the former Constitutional Judge to the Venice Commission, where Ribičič and Wedam Lukić will not represent the positions of Slovenia, but are appointed as experts in this body. Thus a person could walk from one appointment to another, from one act to another. What I'm trying to say is that Janša's government is not going to convince me for the first time that it is nothing but equal opportunities and that it is also about politicisation, because yesterday Mrs Ramsak took such a leap that it is also against this new director or the current director of the Equal Opportunities Office because she replaced the previous one. However, that many do not understand the policy of equal opportunities, despite the fact that, after the sex that a person wears, he expects to understand the policy of equal opportunities, but is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. Get ready, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, present! Today, much has been said about the need to save, that the government and the state must be more effective. We agree with that. It was also said that the opposition should be constructive. Of course we want to be and be alert. However, you can be constructive and alert when you have sufficient weight in front of you, which must also have appropriate analysis. The government has indeed behaved rationally in the transmission of the analyses, as there are no such analyses. If we act so rationally in this country, we will go to make changes without analysis, without knowing what was wrong and what we want to fix and what we want to do better. Of course, I am also in favour of rationalising the state administration. Today, the minister was said to be a state administration as a company. Our president talked about this a lot, and you laughed at him. How come the state isn't a company? Now you note that the state is an enterprise, that some crisis management needs to be made, that the situation needs to be assessed today as it is, and, of course, then look for ways, first ways and then goals where we will go. Of course, we have not observed this here, perhaps Mr Jože Jerovšek knows this, and I will probably be very happy to hear him say it. It's a serious situation. This does not mean that we would headlessly make changes to place one hand and beat the other with the other hand. This could happen to us if we don't take it seriously. I don't trust these changes. Even by two coalition groups, it has been said today that they do not believe that they do not believe that they are thinking differently, but they have recanted. They will be removed and likely to be removed many more times. But the country is not a sandstone to be played with just like that, to be set up and torn down. I would like to draw attention to the integration of the area of religious communities into this mega ministry of education, science, culture and sport. Our constitution states that the church is separate from the state. If we want to follow this, the area which regulates this should be separate from the government and from the individual ministry. This would limit and prevent policy interference in their work and, of course, vice versa. With this organization, you can complicate the matter and open up a new area with which people will be confronted. People will begin to separate even more or less by religious affiliation, world view, and so on. You will give them a bone, which can be stuck in your throat or in the throat of all citizens and citizens, because going to school with ideology is not good. That's dangerous. I'm afraid the school can also become an ideologies field. I agree that public and public administration must be made more effective. That individual offices need to be made more effective and efficient to serve people and to work for them. It would therefore be necessary for a thorough analysis, as I have said many times before. Thorough analyses, which must be professional, should then also be considered in public. It's all under the pretext that we're in a hurry. We must never be in such a hurry to do wrong, to work against people. That is why I will not support this proposed law, and I will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Government and the Law on State Administration are political issues because each government, including the previous government and before the previous government, has adapted the government in such a way that it can better meet its objectives. One thing, though, especially surprised me because I know Mrs Kociper is a lawyer. When she claimed when she was wondering who was going to prosecute the crime, the minister said. I think it's outrageous. The crime will be prosecuted by the prosecutors, not by the minister. If someone claims that the minister will prosecute crime, then something is very wrong with understanding the political system and our country. We are not a banana republic, some African republic where the minister determines who will be imprisoned, whom the prosecutors must accuse and for how many years. I think it's clear to us that criminals will be persecuted by prosecutors and not by ministers. Mr Jankovic and Mrs Bratušek mentioned the submission of coalition parties to a coalition party. You know, the coalition, but I don't want to teach you anything, that there will be no misunderstanding again, of course we're different in the coalition, but I understand the coalition as some big family and all of you, like I said, I don't want to teach you, you've been married for a long time, and you probably know that marriage has to be adapted sometimes. If we want the coalition to succeed, we must also allow ourselves to pursue those goals that are essential to us. Perhaps this was also the reason why Positive Slovenia and Mr Jankovic failed to form a government because he did not understand that the coalition was adaptation, negotiation and more. That's the way it is. Next thing. We ourselves contribute to the poor reputation of Parliament if we use such strong statements, if we say "because you are abolishing the Office for Equal Opportunities, you are against equal opportunities". That statement seems a little too hard for me. Another thing we're talking about is the financial consequences that this law is supposed to have. Mrs Bratušek, as she already wanted certain things to the cent on her committee, even here in this law she wants a precise calculation, up to a cent of what this rationalisation will mean. This would mean, at least frameworkally, that we should write: we will forgive so many and so many employees, we will pay so much relief for this and so on, so much less pay, so much less rent for the premises. All of this should be. But now I'm returning the second thing to you, just when you're saying we're jumping into an empty pool. But I have already said, in the position of the Group of Members, that things need to be brought together first and that only then can we see which things are unnecessary and which staff we can thank for our cooperation. What do you want? And you want us to, without checking it out, predetermine the exact number of people we're going to fire, and then we're going to do it. I think this approach, as taken by the government, that we're going on such a smart path, that things will be checked early to make sure that this thing is no doubt better. I have a few more things I just don't want to go on because I may have had a two-hour "smoker" debate yesterday, and I would have stopped right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. So you named two of our colleagues and they have a replica. First, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u66	I already asked Mr Tonin on the Committee yesterday kindly not to appoint individual Members in his deliberations, but to limit himself to the content. When a Member is appointed by his name and when his professional knowledge is questioned, of course the Member feels hurt, negative feelings are aroused and he requires a replica. Replica needlessly prolongs the debate and directs things away from content. So please again, let's focus on the content. Of course, as a lawyer, it can't happen to me to think that way, but it can happen repeatedly to you that you misunderstand. I would say, however, that the wrong thing is understood by the coalition or at least one of the parties, who apparently thinks that the Minister can have a significant impact on the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office. Because if you hadn't thought about it like that, you wouldn't have to assume that after one year, if there were no results, this minister would have to resign unconditionally. That's what my guess went for. If the Minister's resignation is unconditionally linked to the visible public recognition of the results of the prosecution's operation, then the lawyer, yes or no, cannot conclude otherwise that the coalition expects that the Minister will have to directly influence the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office, otherwise he will have to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. If Mr Tonin reads the magnetogram of yesterday's session, it's not mine, but ours together, he'll see that I'm the one who said it couldn't be calculated exactly. But there's nothing here. There's not a single euro, ten million, one hundred million, five million, not a cent. We're not talking about cents, but we're talking about numbers, which is even worse. We're talking about people. I've had reason to believe that marriage is prepared without any grounds. Now you're going to start to figure out what's going to happen, how many people are going to be too many if there's too many people, how much savings this is going to bring, what's going to happen to these people, and in the end, you're going to mention discharges and the financial impact can unfortunately be negative. This means more resources in the state budget. It's the only thing we want from you, and we can't. We prefer to negotiate here now whether five cents is important or five cents is not important. It may be important to a lot of people, but I think we're talking about millions. Worse still, we're talking about the people you promised them today to stay on the road, while, of course, the money for retirement is money for higher wages in cabinets and there's money for two drivers in one ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek was the last of the discussers and those who wanted a replica. I ask my colleagues: Do you want to discuss it? I'm guessing yes, so I'm asking you to sign up for the debate. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I will not talk about culture again, I have already made it clear enough that this solution does not seem appropriate for things to be reorganised differently. I don't know, I just can't agree with this and I can't agree with the only argument that the Ministry of Culture is a bureaucratic creation that doesn't allow for cultural development. I just can't accept it. The other is the Office for Equal Opportunities. It is not true that the European Union does not say anything about not setting any conditions. Perhaps it does not fully condition the organisation of this office or these activities, but in the past we have already received more than once the sage with an indicator, which you so like to use for some of your arguments that the advocate of equal opportunities must be completely independent and similar. I'm afraid this office in this ministry will somehow get lost. I would like to say, however, that it is precisely some of the figures in this area that place Slovenia at the very top of Europe, namely the payment for equal work between men and women. These are things that should stay the way they are, and I'm afraid they won't. Our difference between male and female pay for the same job is deep below the European average. The difference is 4.4%, while European countries on average have this difference much higher, 16%. I think that we should work on this first and that we should not allow these things to move worse, which I fear will also happen because of the economic crisis. In addition, I would like to add that we talked to a Czech colleague who told me that these wage differences jumped at the time of the right-wing government. I really wouldn't want anything like this to happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamari Vonta, I apologize for the wrong accent of her name. It's mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Get Mr. Franz Puksič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. At least a broad debate has already developed or took place on the committee itself, the national working body of the National Assembly, where there has also been a shift from content. Why? Because it is practically impossible to discuss the content because it is a technical law, the Coalition Members say. In Positive Slovenia we wanted more concrete answers. We wanted a study, we wanted a strategy, we wanted numbers, so we sent a public call to the government earlier, but to date, not only until yesterday's answers on the concrete basis that, in fact, the government came with such a new organisational scheme, we didn't get it. The Ministry of Culture is hereby abolished. Professional and independent offices shall be discontinued, without analysis, without calculation, without strategies. Yesterday on the Committee, the Minister said that the Government here really does not have a strategy within the meaning of the so-called policymaker. Today I ask the honourable Minister, who is also with us, honestly ask: Is the law that we are considering and adopting today a good law? The Minister also said on the Committee that he opposed the solutions specifically set out in Article 7 of the Law. These solutions, we have heard today, are opposed to DeSus. In recent days, we have witnessed how these solutions are opposed by the entire party of the Civil Gazette of Gregor Virant, including its President, who has withdrawn back and said that for them the coalition treaty of the world, concrete, even though some in this same government coalition have achieved that the coalition treaty is still changing in some way. If there was a real desire or will on the part of the Minister, on the part of some coalition partners, the law could be reformed. We could adopt a good or better law, which is not only the basis for the organisational structure of the government or the functioning of the government. I say that it is the basis for the content to be implemented by individual ministries, which will be implemented at the final stage of the RS Government. This content has an important symbolic basis in view of the solutions found in this law. This symbolic work of the RS Government unfortunately goes in the direction of people who have their heads and think with their heads, discipline or submit them. Otherwise, I find it difficult to understand what was happening to the minister and what happened to his entire client when she resigned from her intention and agreed to be disciplined by the largest coalition party. I'm afraid if we don't follow this work, we'll get to that situation very quickly, because you all know, I can't see, I can't hear, don't say anything. And that's worrisome. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not gonna say it's just worrying. I believe it's a real disgrace to do this for the government coalition. Shameful. I'll try to paint a little more plastic to make it more understandable. If you hope to be the biggest government party to your minister, it is not important which parties come from, but to your minister, to set such an ultimatum, I fear that under such an ultimatum, all those who perform autonomously today will be autonomously appointed functions by individual offices. I do not want to hear the obvious that Positive Slovenia opposes rationalisation in the field of state administration. Far from it. Yesterday, too, the amendments proposed that we all take up extra time together, consider and, on the basis of truly professionally sound analyses, find a good positive solution, which will also go in the direction of rationalisation. We have even proposed a multi-disciplinary approach in this area, which has positive effects on the budget, but we have simply not been given the opportunity. Yesterday, a government party representative also said, "Let's give practice a chance." I will say that it can be a hell of a pain if this is the way politics messes with the law, because there are people behind these laws, and if we are making important organisational structural changes in the legislation just in mind. My colleague said we'd jump first and then check to see if the water was in the pool. In the long run, this can have a truly irreparable impact on society. And maybe even think about it when you do, because I believe that our amendment, which has been tabled under Article 7, will be overtaken smoothly. Even though, ma'am, I believe he's being substantively supportive of the minister himself. When you do or play in the future with laws and consequently with people, life, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not just statistics. Life has content and it is right that we pay attention to this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! If I start where you're afraid of the opposition, how we'll negotiate within the coalition, I'll let you know that you won't be. You haven't put it together yet, and you haven't been able to make a deal with any of your biggest partners. That means one plus one is two. You didn't even make it. We're obviously doing it, but with five clients, we're doing it. Leave this to us completely, and we'll do it already. Definitely better than you said. Because if we were to learn from you, we'd be at the polls today, and we're not, but we're at work. First time. Another time. Colleagues and colleagues! What are you worried about? Structure or content? True, perhaps the most important thing for this country is who drives any minister. I mean, this is gonna make the country fall or get up. Do you think it's more important what this minister will do, the contents? I believe that in a very short time you will find it difficult to switch from structure because you are more interested in structure than in content. But these countries, unlike changing the content, we can't pull them out of the mud. The police are the body that discovers, the prosecution is the law enforcement agency, and that's how it's gonna stay. Is there any material change in the prosecution in this law? The law is what some in the previous coalition have proposed. For the time being, as far as I know, we don't change anything in the Law on State Administration. But it is true that some of you — well, yes, now I really need to think about, I don't know, maybe another one, but I think not even anymore — or the option that was in power at the time changed the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act in 1994. And then you didn't change the structure to lock up the thieves. You have changed the content to allow those who have been convicted by law not to spend a single second in prison. Uroš Aljančič, Pavel Koder, Elan – do you remember? 29 charges were, excuse me, a conviction in court! And then you changed the law so that the gentleman wouldn't go to jail because you turned the crime into a crime. So if our government coalition had ever suggested such a thing, believe me, I would be the first to oppose it. Discontinuation of individual services and offices – well, let's get to numbers. In 2008, even the National Bank took over EUR 235 million of various Greek securities. I don't know, I don't have that information. How many did the Credit Bank of Maribor take, I don't know. But I hardly believe they didn't rent it either. You can't get that information in a few days, I hope we do. However, the fact is that when they were shopping, the Bank of Maribor’s share was worth €27, even €40 in a few days. It's not even worth 3 euros today! Mr Kovacič sat in this bank all the time and you did not replace him. And you didn't do anything. Moreover, President of the Supervisory Board Danilo Toplek was so long ago when we had almost all our teeth broken here when we mentioned what had been happening - the silent owner of the silent society, the director of the Taluma and so on. So why do we have to do these cuts today and stop certain jobs, offices and so on - colleagues and colleagues, because we are preparing, unfortunately, a balance with which we will have to save almost a billion euros! Of course, it won't be easy. What's more, in the sixteen years we've been in debt for about 8 billion, you've managed to borrow 6.5 billion in three years! You've increased your debt by 400% a year! And today you're wondering why we're shutting down certain offices. In fact, they don't quit at all, only the structure changes. Which workers, who will go to the road or to the employment office as much as possible - I believe that the government will work in the direction that it will do as little as possible. By restructuring, by redistribution, and so on, it is working very hard to change the activity in order to make things look different. More than €2 billion a year is no longer in debt. That's what you've done, and those of you who are staying now have a hell of a job. Let me remind you – I have before me your proposal for amendments to the Law on State Administration – now I must say, it was indeed a mistake of our coalition. Apparently, she rewrote Article 4 in your article: "The changes in the law will have no effect on public funds." Of course, this is how marriage is done, and the consequences that will be, or changes that will, are likely to be, in the balance. That's where it's gonna be. It is therefore right that the Government, which has only just begun, which I believe is the only one of the guarantees to stop, has already stopped and stopped everything that has accumulated in the last three years – to start working. I believe that it will not underestimate institutions that are state institutions, but even less so that it treats them as arrogantly as it did — sometimes said — the most likely mandate holder, i.e. the re-candidant for the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana when this audit report of the Court of Auditors came in. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u75	Comrade Pukšič, paragraphs 7, 9, 16 and 19 are read. Please talk about it. Today is not a general debate. Not at the moment. Please stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Mr Vice President, I believe that it is easier to warn me because we are from the same parliamentary group than colleagues from the opposition. And that's right. That's what I'm used to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Excuse me. I'll warn the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Well, you haven't so far, but maybe that's a follow-up. Colleagues and colleagues, sweep ahead of your thresholds – all those responsible for individual matters! This government has only just begun and started as it must, so I will support this law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Good afternoon. Given that we have listened to something that we have not really understood at all, I will try to focus first on what we have on the agenda today, which is the Law on State Administration. Given that we are always talking about financial consequences and that there has been something that has already been answered, I would particularly like to draw attention to the part where we speak and have been warned today – namely, what it means to break the word and what it means to reorganise. I was really a little confused because I looked at the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language and there more than clearly got an explanation in which I believe, of course, and I am sure that everyone else knows it. However, because it has been so said today that we must first learn about the content and, I will say, the direction that we are actually discussing. Reorganisation actually means nothing more than something new to establish, abolish or replace, redistribute; it is to reorganise. But if we're talking about putting an end to the word, it means doing it, causing something to stop being. The fact is that we are not telling anyone anything today if something is to be removed if it is very clear where the compensation will be, or who will take over and bear the mission and the foundations of what has created something to carry on in essence some specific task, which will be very clear to citizens and citizens and to know who to turn to. To simplify, at home, what voters ask me most often: Who will now perform the tasks of a certain office or agency, or who can we turn to, or who will really follow this work? That's a simple question. When we know how to answer that question, we will know very clearly how much it will cost us or where we will save it. We do not need any specific mathematics, but not a six-month introduction, in order to do some serious analysis and study, for which, of course, you still have time, and you will also be able to do and replace it, and at the end of the year very clearly taught us where we have done a better and more advanced step than you actually wanted. In fact, it is necessary to know that today it has also been mentioned that the Law on State Administration is merely a technical law, where we do little or nothing and do what we have already announced with the Government Act. With the Government Act, which some like to mention very much, it was actually written by Positive Slovenia and was adopted to save time, etc. I must say that if you remember this treatment – and I believe you will be right – no one has ever asked you about the Government's Financial Consequences Act. Never. Because it was more than clear that when the government was being formed, in fact, you are not even members of the government or the government at all, you cannot even identify everyone, I will say, certain concrete steps. Under the Law on State Administration, which we all knew would be adopted later, but then you had enough time to get to know everything and say something about it, but not as detailed as Mr Tonin said. What's still important is when you say that you have to say that if we stop something, then we're automatically against it "against it". Let me put it this way. The Office for Equal Opportunities has certainly been established, not to make the administration rich, I hope not, because if it is, then it is right that we have abolished it, but for one simple reason, because we have said that we will give more importance to certain issues in this country, which have been very clear and proved repeatedly violated or gone in the wrong direction. And if we know how to answer citizens, especially those who feel hurt, and feel that they have been deprived of this option again, where they can save or who will follow this content, then we will not really mind. If we had that option, we would certainly have shut down some agencies and offices. But don't expect us to explain this to you now if you run this country and not us. However, it is right and proper to allow us to remind you of these questions. Let me finish with just one more point. In fact, I learned in a relatively short period of time that some people in the National Assembly simply repeat something as parrots that is not true, so it is necessary to simply repeat as parrots, so that in the end it will not become what is not true, in the end it will be the truth. Today we have heard about someone walking on the brink of legality and that he keeps talking and repeating that there is no corruption in Slovenia. That was never said. However, it has been summarized in the newspaper, in the media, for which some people like to repeat very much today, and I advise you to first look at the media itself, what was actually written there. What needs to be said to citizens and citizens is that they are now a little confused. In fact, at the beginning we had the feeling that Gregor Virant's List was actually the one who wanted the prosecution to be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. Now I have a feeling that one minister has had a bit of a taste, because this same list that he wanted now brings it back to its original state or wants it back, this same minister, who was still on the board making sure that he has an amendment ready and that he will submit it at the meeting this afternoon, is actually explaining that this does not have to be done without a connection. Like I said, it tasted good. Therefore, now citizens and citizens do not really understand who has led someone into this agony or who has abused someone to hide behind some cover today and to explain that you are actually guilty, and that suits me. In short, the law as it is, I will not support it. I hope that it is clear why, because we have given a constitutional opinion precisely on certain issues and therefore any transfer is a little uncomfortable, especially for you, who are actually insisting on certain points of reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor to prepare Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! We have been taught arithmetic many times in the National Assembly, and something like this continues today. In fact, the arithmetic coalition seems to have a very good handle, as we have seen that it can achieve, through parliamentary arithmetic, the results of the elections, and a little more problems when it comes to algebra or even higher mathematics. Let's say that it breaks a little bit in equations, because we don't want anything but that if a certain quantity changes on one side of the equation, that we also have to tell what's on the other side to make this equation come out. That was our question. Not in detail whether we want to literally have all these balance sheets leveled. No! No! However, where it goes, what we save, how much we have saved, and not least, the balance sheets. Rather than hiring new people in cabinets with 20% extras on the first day when they come to work, when we don't know if they're successful or not successful; rather than hiring – maybe irrelevant to Mr. Pukšič, and for me it's also taking drivers, even though we're shutting down ministries and we've got more chauffeurs and so on. In other human resources areas, too, we are likely to reach a surplus, and we know nothing about it. If we take a vector image of this government, then we will quickly find out that these vectors in this picture are quite scattered, except for one very pronounced vector, which is the vector that does not lead to a quick resolution of economic solutions, but which is mainly focused on human resources solutions. But here I have to say that we are very successful, and here things are very close to happening – in the discharges and in the settings. Let's just say we don't know why four people from Vom have to be hired all of a sudden. This is a question that we are likely to talk about again. But there's something else I need to be very clear about. Indeed, we as the opposition, in particular those who are first in this House, are certainly not the ones to which the position or coalition would refer. It seems to me that some of the older Members, let me be allowed to do so, function better than the opposition rather than the coalition. Don't argue with us, we're not the ones who propose! We want very clearly only to take professional opinions into account, that is to say, to take account of the profession, and, lastly, we also expect all responsible people in this government and in this coalition to maintain their moral and professional integrity. This means that if the Minister says one day that the prosecution is in the judiciary, then he cannot say on the second day that he has to submit himself to coalition agreements and coalition agreements. It's like a coalition treaty over the constitution, over the law, and so on! This is important for someone, for some people are learning their references with their humility and agility, not with their professional work and knowledge. These are things that let me know that power is passion and lust and that all of this in this function is very difficult to give up, even if at the end of this term some would become or land in the family of invertebrates. Therefore, once again, our emphasis on leaving the prosecution in the justice ministry is not to dictate to the government, but is a professional and well-founded proposal, which is also highlighted by all the professions. Nor do we understand why the largest ruling party insists so stubbornly that these matters are not carried out. Our amendment on this issue will be supported and I will support it myself. Otherwise, I will always advocate that a part of the judiciary, in which I am sure, belongs also to the prosecution, if not organizationally, at least on my own merits, by my own genetics – that I will support it myself. Finally, I would just like to say this: unfortunately for a cultural holiday we have abolished or reorganised the cultural ministry, for a woman's day we are abolishing the Office of Equal Opportunities, and I do not think that even if I say so again, the actual vectors in this vector image of this coalition and government are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Minister Senko Plitčanič spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you. I'd like to continue where I was interrupted before. I wanted to stress at the end of that opening presentation the following: the only guide of my work, but I believe that the same applies to my colleague Šuštaršič, who is from the same party, was, is and will only be an expert. This bill, which you now have before you, is based on professional criteria. You know, this has been my profession so far. I have quite a lot of experience in this area, so in preparing this law it was the only thing that led the expertise, and that is how it will remain in the future. Now, I would like to comment on some of these statements, which directly referred to either me or I feel so important that they need to be commented on. In fact, what is often here in this discussion appears to be the view that the autonomy of an authority or organisation has also ensured the real realization of tasks in an area. My answer to that is as follows. An independent organisation, i.e. the rounding of an area in a legal person, in a body, in an organisation, has yet to say anything about whether tasks in this area will be carried out effectively, legally, etc. This is also true of these three abolished government services or offices, since this is the only thing that has now been cut off or attached to the department. Nothing else has happened to this law, which would not have happened to the government law. So once again: new ministries have been established under the Government Act. The Law on State Administration provides for these new ministries, their work areas, their tasks only in more detail. Plus the connections of three government services to these same ones, so some of these departments. That's the content of this law. Of course, the aim of this rationalisation, which has taken place with this law – and here I am thinking of these three services, which belong to individual departments – is rationalisation, as well as the objective of everything that we will continue to propose and what I have mentioned in the introduction. Once again, real rationalisation will only happen and then we will very precisely define, quantify the savings that will be achieved through such rationalisation. This is the only reason and the only objective of rationalisation – once again – is to save budget money. Once again: it has not happened yet; what has happened now is a small step in this direction. I therefore propose that the energy you are now investing in discussing how the Government has not produced financial impact assessments should be saved for this second step and now, in this second part, this energy is devoted to other issues. I agree that one of these issues can be the state's prosecution. I'll talk about it further. Nevertheless, I would like to say that all government departments or both offices, one government service or both offices that now belong to individual departments, have performed or performed tasks that are very important — equal opportunities, nationality, religious communities, climate change. These are very important tasks and it does not take into account in any way the rationalisation we are carrying out due to the financial situation in which the State and the State budget are in order to reduce the provision or exercise of these related powers. Not even close! All these powers will be guaranteed in the same way as before, perhaps even better – we are talking about substantive work – in the competent ministries. In particular, I would like to stress in the part where it comes to abolishing the Office for Equal Opportunities. Indeed, there is also an advocate in this office, a particular body or a special person, whom we consider to be different from what it has been so far, more independent, and we will also propose this in the context of the changes that we will be making in this second step, which I keep mentioning. Otherwise, the powers of this office, which have already been transferred to the competent ministry – and I am sure that this ministry will carry out them as effectively and as well as it has done so far in this independent office. I would also like to stress once again what I did on the board yesterday. So there's a lot of talk about how the organisation of an area in the service, the office, and so on, ensured its independence or its independence. I would like to point out that offices and government services have been associated with individual departments, where the name already says that these are government offices, government offices, and some entities directly subordinated to the government. So here to talk about the fact that when these offices were independent or government service, that this ensured some great autonomy and independence from the executive branch of power, it is not appropriate, since, as the name already says, it is services directly subordinated to the government. Perhaps even with regard to what Mrs Potrata has specifically highlighted, the Study Centre for National Reconciliation. This is an organisational form organised in the status form of a public institution, and therefore it has not been the subject of this first step, which I repeat, only the operationalisation of the government law, plus these three offices or government service. In the second step, when we rationalise public agencies, public funds, institutions and other independent legal entities that bear different names, different names will be the subject of analysis and then rationalisation of every organizational form that exists in Slovenia at this time, including the centre mentioned. If we assess - for any of these, including this centre, that it is more rational to organise its/its activities within the Ministry, or to merge several different agencies into one agency, or more funds into one fund and so on - then we will propose, argue and also financially quantify it. In the end, my favorite theme is the state's attorney's office and jurisdiction over him. Here again, I would like to make the following very clear. My position was, is, and will not change, that the power of the executive branch is in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office, so it is best that this authority is located in the judiciary. That is my opinion, and I have never expressed any other position anywhere. Since I have this position from the very beginning, I have proposed an appropriate step, given that this is a coalition that has entered into a coalition agreement, and this step is a change in this coalition contract in its own party. This proposal was accepted by the party and forwarded this proposal to the coalition parties, the coalition partners. As far as I was aware, most of these other coalition partners, with the exception of the SDS, had previously supported this change, the SDS published its position. My opinion is that such a position as the SDS has published cannot be interpreted differently than the rejection of the proposal by the National Gazette of Gregor Virant as to the fact that jurisdiction in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office remains with the judiciary. Since the party forming the coalition did not accept this proposal, the situation is as it is. My position is still the same; I still think the same, so I think that the powers of the State Prosecutor's Office should remain with the Justice Department. [[...]] [[Applause]] What you have challenged me with, Mr Jankovic, is how I feel about the trial period. In this regard, my answer is as follows. All the ministers of this government are bound by the coalition treaty, we are bound by the law and the constitution and the legal system in Slovenia, which means that we have all the responsibility to run ministries legally and in accordance with the Constitution. The Coalition Treaty is also important because it has a substantive definition of the objectives of this coalition – the same applies to all. So if it is found that he is not doing his job well, doing it illegally or contrary to the Constitution, he will have to say good - bye to his office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor, Mr Srečko Meh is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, co-workers and co-workers! I'm very pleased that you gave your word to the Minister in front of me because he gave me a nice point. When the coalition was formed, the current President of the National Assembly defended the purely professional government and then an absolute political government took place, and the politicians occupied the seats of ministers, and that is it. Today we are talking about a law that the professional public does not support. We are back in politics — everything you have prepared is a political decision. And some of you will say, that's right. I would congratulate Minister Plitschani, given what he has just said, on his honesty, on his upright attitude. My personal recommendation, Minister Pličanič – you are only sounding well – stand up for yourself today because tomorrow it will be too late not to sacrifice you. For when they seek the guilty, they will not look for the guilty in their own ranks, those who oppose association or association, or whatever you wish to say to that term; but when there is a matter of error, you will be responsible, and they will point the finger at you. So, don't you dare! You have our support. I am alone in the fact that I am a Member of Positive Slovenia, whose President is and will remain Zoran Jankovic, proud to be who I am today, because, during the election campaign, Zoran Jankovic has repeatedly said that some speak one thing and do another. This has also proved to be true today and is showing itself more and more [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, and he'll stay. Zoran Jankovic will remain [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Dear Vice-President, Zoran Jankovic will remain in and with us in this House wherever he is. But that's not the topic of today's debate. Mr Plitčanilč, you said that when it comes to abolishing the Office for Equal Opportunities, some Members and Members of Parliament are mistaken when we are talking about abolishing, because it is not really overturned, but it is about reorganising, connecting, abolishing, transferring, divorce It is not so important which term we will use, it is important that your doing has benefits for this country. [[...]] In the opposition, we do not oppose rationalisation, on the contrary! We support rationalisation, but note the possible consequences of the announced changes without previous analyses, not only financial efficiency analyses, but also analysis of the possible consequences of the loss of independence and independence of some services, which also exercise supervisory functions over government and policy. Unfortunately, it is also right that some offices, because of their nature, must be separated from policy makers, so we also know the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power. The mixing of the judicial and executive branches of power is not correct. We are not afraid – Mr Tonin, I have to replicate you – who will prosecute crime? We're more concerned about who's trying to cover up possible crime and not even coming to court. This is the main concern that some Members and members of the opposition have expressed today. Perhaps it would be good for some to tell Mr Plitschani already, which individuals should be processed in order for the state prosecutors to receive a positive assessment. Perhaps this is important today, which is of course wrong. As regards the abolition or transfer or merger of individual government offices such as the Equal Opportunities Office, the Office of Religious Communities, the Office of Nationality and the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Climate Change, I would say the following. If the professional public is somehow conceived and has arguments why it is against – because some government services are directly subordinated to the government. Why? Because the nature of their work extends across a single department or through one ministry. If you just look at, say, the Climate Change Office, what tasks does it have and tasks? In fact, he performs a role as a supervisor, an interdepartmental linker. And it's hard to say that we should put him in the same area. It can be if, after all, it's really rationalisation that we're going to save a huge amount of money. But even though we're going to shut down some of the heads of some offices, they're going to end up on the job market, and they're going to have to get some replacements there. There'll be no final breakout. This is where we found out -- someone said, I'm not going to call it that the opposition doesn't even know the count of one and one. It's obviously one and one and three for some. I'm afraid there'll be one and only one later. It depends on what's between the enco and the enco. It's very important. Therefore, dear colleagues, we cannot please the opposition with what is being done. What is being done in this rationalisation can be said: we will rationalise the state administration by rationalising it. How can we be satisfied with such rationalisation and with such a response? Unfortunately, we just want to help you. As the opposition, we want to help you to perhaps alert you to what is missing. I believe that now that we have given you instructions, some of this will also be used and used, and you will bring this country to a better place where we all want to be, and unfortunately we are not there today. Dear colleagues, thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Meh has the floor to prepare Mr Bevk alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Dear Members and Members, and of course Mr Minister! The main question I am asked here today in Parliament is what the role of Parliament is. Is the role of Parliament a position and an opposition? Is it the role of what you did and what we did? Or is it the role of Parliament to learn at a given time what is best, what is appropriate, possible and then accept it? That's our role! That's why it's all because it was the '90s or I don't know what year, history, and the present is what we have to decide. When we proposed a change in government law, no one listened to us. At that time, we proposed only two changes, and at that time it was suggested that we could do more together than any of us could. It's actually our function. Today it's about the Law of State Administration, and it's basically about technical law, so I've heard it. That's really what this is about. The content that says nothing changes in the D.A.'s office. If nothing changes, it doesn’t matter where it is — if nothing changes. If no one changes anything, then the content should be there, then the prosecution should be where it belongs — to the judicial authority. Because there's something there that guarantees independence. And it's independence! It is a path that we are sort of drawing today, and it is the path that will show what we will also do in the perspective of others: Do we want to have an influence of politics or do we not want to have an impact? Can these organs be independent or unable to be professionally independent? Do they have to be influenced by politics? When we talked about withdrawing politics from the economy, did we really mean that when we talked about it? Are we going to find everything that's going to happen with capital and other aukni and all that's going to happen? What happens then? Are we going to withdraw the policy when all these agencies are no longer independent? We're not taking her away! Of course, I am concerned that in the back it may be a purely human resources clean-up. This staff cleaning, however, does not mean that it will not matter whether someone has done well or not, but it is only to whom he belongs that he is able to listen or not to listen. It's the most dangerous thing. If I could start a debate like I don't want to start, I should say something like this; one of the debates today said, "the opposition's grip on corruption and crime". Excuse me, no opposition! It oppresses us, it is in Parliament because of corruption and crime, and also because of criminal proceedings in which the personalities of our political life are visible. That is actually the point that we should talk about today and always talk about what is going on here. For this reason, it seems to me that today our problem is that because of the unbearable speed or because of the excessive speed of changing the inability to actually talk about the content, not to talk about the content, what is changing and what is going to happen, because we have had, if we think about it, two or three days to say something, to read and talk. Who can we talk to? That is why, of course, I support both amendments, I will support them, and if they are not accepted, I will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Despite the massive resistance of the professional and interested public with the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the right-wing coalition abolished the Ministry of Culture. By doing so, it has gone a long way towards the constitutional element on which Slovenian statehood is founded and has shown an obvious gap between the alleged and actual understanding of patriotism. Although Minister Žiga Turk tried to reconcile the public with promises that the concern for culture will be the same or even better than before, and that the minister is also a culture in Slovenia. The Minister, in an underestimated tone, which we have been monitoring since the 2004-2008 right-centre coalition, has already announced the abolition of certain institutions that are more important to some cultural creators than the Ministry itself. According to the Minister, who, after numerous protests, said that the decision was not yet final, the conviction that his forecast was too hasty and unthinkable is growing and will have unpredictable consequences in its aftermath. Here I am mainly referring to the abolition of the Public Book Agency and the Slovenian Film Centre. That's exactly why we're with a colleague of mags today. Majdo Ptrato addressed to the Government a special initiative to maintain the functioning of the institutions responsible for the field of book and film, in accordance with the applicable normative acts, to ensure institutional stability and political independence of the Public Book Agency and the Slovenian Film Centre, in order to prepare a thorough analysis of the functioning of both institutions before any legislative changes to the Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Book and the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, together with the professional public, and to take further measures to ensure the independence of the field of the book and to prevent any possibility of affecting the functioning of institutions that would result from greater or less favourableity of political officials in a given publication. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should define those priorities that will have a real impact on the country's exit from the economic crisis, and should stop, under the cover of rationalisation, the social systems on which the identity of the Slovenian people is based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Although we did not hear anything new from those Members and Members on the Committee yesterday, but a copy of yesterday's inappropriate readings and unwarranted performances, I must also say that this is a law that results from a reduced government and the need to rationalise it within the government and the state administration. That is why we have on the table the Law on State Administration, which is trying to think through and on the basis of experience to do something that will have some effect. We all know that we have to do this and we have to do it. You're in contradiction here. You've been saying for a while that you'd do it yourself, that you're for rationalization, but everything on the table is practically wrong. There is no area that would not be troubled by any of the Members. From yesterday to today, however, it is very clear that you are throwing the wedge in a special way into the coalition. Because yesterday, on the basis of a debate by a Member, I said that it had already been seen yesterday that the Civil Gazette of Gregor Virant would in any event be on the wallpaper and condemned. Today, the Member and Member of Parliament said – Mrs Tavš – that if it were the Minister's wish, they would have changed the coalition treaty already. But Mr. Möderndorfer, today's minister is different. Then some applauded him. That's duality, that's duality. He deserves to be applauded for introducing a good program at the hearing. In any case, as I found out yesterday, your basic purpose was to kill the wedge, to show Virant's list as an incredible client, to propose a transfer of the Ministry, but now she's changed her mind and so on. It is not surprising to me that I have heard from someone of your kind very confidentially that an extremely important member of your party said that the current primary objective for Positive Slovenia is to destroy Virant's list because it prevented the takeover of power and the great goals that Mr Jankovic had had in order to remedy the Ljubljana budget – if he were in government. Of course, that would be the primary task and it would primarily be to pour money there. That's what I believe. He really prevented your plans, but you prevented them because of incompetence; because, if I say a little caricated, Mr Jankovic went to a policy he underestimated, underestimated the National Assembly, underestimating your colleagues because he was running out of Parliament after two months. This is an outrageous mockery and an insult to Parliament. We must say that he came into politics after the crumbs — with all the symbolism. That's why Virant's list is now being sent to you. When the ministry is transferred from one ministry to another, in an attempt to improve logistics for the prosecution, it is a better cooperation between criminals and the prosecution that you attack with all the sulphur and fire. But yesterday also turned out to be something you were afraid of. You are very afraid that the actual work of the prosecution will improve. In fact, your colleague called on prosecutors to sabotage next year in pursuit of economic crime. I believe it is an extraordinary fear that prosecutors, investigators and criminals would reach Cyprus, Liechtenstein and other tax havens, where hundreds of millions of Slovenian money would be spilled. This fear, even though you're covering it up, you've expressed it in a direct way. For this reason, I thought it was a funny experiment – because I don't know if the attempt — was the praise or mockery of Mr Jankovic by the gentleman sitting behind him when he said Jankovic warned that some people were talking and doing one thing. Mr Jankovic said a good month ago that he would not run for mayor of Ljubljana [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Comrade Jerovšek, once again, we have read paragraphs 7, 9, 16 and 19 or amendments. Please stick to this and don't make any trips here and there.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Fear of economic crime is linked to Article 7. I'm sure it's in the context. See, the ignorance and disrespect of democracy, the apparent fact that the prosecution will now be under political influence – do you still think that the old times are possible right at that time? I will symbolically say: when he is in Eastern Europe and also in Slovenia – if I only mention the case of the Dachau processes – he was intimidated and acted by Prosecutor Visinski. Anyone who knows political history knows what I'm talking about – about mounted processes. You speak here as if the minister would intervene directly. I'm the first one to say it out loud if there's any indication that there's been an attempt on the part of the prosecution not to help! I remembered that today when I was in the middle of a historic symposium at the 80th anniversary of Jože Pučnik's birth. I worship his memory and his great work for our country! I hope that all democratically-minded people in this House also worship him. But you speak here in such a way that the fate of Jozet Pučnik will repeat itself in this term. It won't, and it can't happen again! These are the sins of the past. At the beginning of the discussion, I fear that the attack on the National Reconciliation Study Centre was also in this context, that you are disturbed by the truth that so cruelly happened to Jože Pučnik. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, do not hang on to this law and this change of jurisdiction over the status and technical functioning of the prosecution of pendants that are not even here! Don't fool people and don't scare people! Rather, work on bringing the few hundred million euro that have disappeared in the previous mandate back into the budget. This should also be the primary concern of those parties who were in power before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Get Mrs. Masha Kociper ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Respected and respected! I think that there has been one important opportunity in the process of creating a stronger government; and this is that we will reach an important consensus on these issues because more or less of all of us have agreed that we need a stronger government and a more rational state administration. I am sorry, however, that we have missed this opportunity, which could result in some consensus, because I firmly believe that the constitution of the government is not a matter of coalition, but of Parliament. I can't imagine that every time we switch governments to large offices, we're going to change the structure of the state administration, because, after all, it's cost-effective and it's a question of if we end up saving something. Secondly, and not least, this also represents a great deal of stress for employees in the state administration. Instead of a motivating, stimulating working environment, such changes pose a first-hand threat to them. That's not good. Unfortunately, we could not agree on the fundamental issues, even though they represent a derogation from practice in virtually all European countries. Even in the most prominent of all open questions, this is the issue of the prosecution, obviously a coalition logic prevails. I believe that conflicts in the coalition are also to some extent positive, that they are opening the debate and that they are showing some light, if you want the opposition to make positive changes despite the government's voting machine, so I want to motivate them to put differences forward because I think it is a fundamental component of democracy. It is true, however, that each coalition also requires adaptation, mutual indulgence, and the like. What's my fear is that in this coalition, it seems everyone else is going to adapt, except for SDS, and it's going to be bad for the country. However, I think that the area mentioned today is of great importance not only for the ability of this country to emerge from this spasm and crisis, but for the perspectives of future generations, it has been mentioned very few times today, so I think it is most important than the questions we are talking about today. In the previous government, we have made important moves in the design of an active role for Slovenia in the fight against climate Slovenia. This is not just a global issue, it is a local issue. This is a question of how we will use active policies to encourage our economy, as well as the public sector, to actively adapt to the challenges of time. We know that Slovenia is extremely exposed to the threat of climate change, so that our landscape can also change significantly, and our access to natural resources. And not only the question of our generation, but the question of our children and our grandchildren, the next generation, of which we have this country only on a vessel. The former government has introduced the Government's Climate Change Service as an exceptional operational multi-disciplinary cross-sectoral approach to finally implementing urgent policies in this area. Two important acts have been prepared; they are practically coordinated in a broad public debate with the most interested, this is an extremely well-organised non-governmental sector in this area. The issues were practically coordinated. Unfortunately, the early nature of the previous mandate has led to the fact that the examination of these documents is a matter of the law on climate change and the strategy for the transition of Slovenia to a low-carbon society has not been completed. Both documents are now awaiting confirmation from the Government and I expect the Government to bring them to Parliament as soon as possible. For the traveller, we terminate the Government's Climate Change Service despite clear and good results in this area and place them under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I know that this process cannot be prevented, but I call on Minister Bogovic to apply at least this area at the level of the Directorate in further procedures for the management of the internal administration, so that in the cross-sectoral approach required in this area, they do not curse us on behalf of future generations for one day because of our negligence and our inaction in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd start a little different than I intended. As I have explained before, I have decided on my own that in my deliberations I will appoint as few times as possible individual Members for the reasons I listed earlier. This time I will do an extraordinary job, and I will appoint Mr Jerovsk, I hope that I will do it one last time, but I cannot help myself not to make one general comment. The way he debates and thinks most about him speaks of him first; and secondly, of a client in which he has been for 20 years. I would ask him not to contradict the facts, to contradict the truth, and to read to him, or to read to him, an article of the Penal Code that speaks of a crime of offensive accusation. When repeating one and the same untruths, as Mr Möderndorfer well said, they sometimes need to be answered. And because I have already heard 26 times today how Mr Jankovic said he would remain in the National Assembly, and now he is leaving him and embarrassing the institution and so on, I am answering that he has never said he would remain in the National Assembly. He even said he was running because he believed he could offer his knowledge as Prime Minister, he said that he was not interested in the MP's work, that he did not feel passion for him, and now he will try to offer his knowledge and abilities again to the citizens as mayor. Such principled conduct seems much better than your president's, who for four years did not resign from the National Assembly, but we have very rarely seen him in this Chamber, and we have also very rarely heard him. However, he did receive an emissary’s salary, most of which he worked for the client. But, please, let's stop the billing because they don't have an end. What I wanted to say is my favorite topic – the state's attorney's office. Given how many times I have repeated all the professional arguments, constitutional decisions, expert opinions, I do not mean to bore you again. However, I would like to draw attention to one worrying trend that you have somehow pointed out to many Members before me. All together, the profession and the opposition, we draw attention to this problem and to inadequate solutions. Even the majority of the coalition agrees. It is a good day for us to begin today with the statements made by Members that I should also read a few statements by Members at the first meeting of the Committee when this solution was first offered. Mr Richard Braniselj said after my debate: "We must say that we have adopted a protocol to this coalition agreement. And this is no longer a matter for the prosecution under the Ministry of the Interior, it is said, that the prosecution remains under the authority of the judiciary, so these debates are, I think, superfluous. Then Mrs Kotnik Popota said very well: "It is true that we have written in the coalition contract this matter, the transfer of the ministry, but we have found that this is not right, so there was a signed protocol that will change it. But we've already heard about this protocol today. The protocol does not solve the matter, they are saved by the law, so such a solution is unacceptable for DeSUS and we will not support it." I do not wish to discredit the credibility of Mr Branislj and Mrs Kotnik Poropat, who are personally very nice to me and respect them. But I want to point to the trend that is taking place in this coalition and which is worrying. Experts sitting on committees, probably the biggest experts of individual parties in this area, point out the non-compliance, then comes the departmental expert, the only lawyer, not the only one, sorry, because there are quite a few, but the Minister of Justice and warns that such a solution is unsustainable and does not support it. Convinced its President, the party of the doctor, that this solution is once again problematic and that they are proposing an amendment to the coalition agreement. The NSI, at its meeting of the Council of the Parties, will support the continuation of the Prosecutor's Office under the judiciary, and this will also define DeSUS, the List of Gregor Virant. Three of the five parties, including the second largest, say they do not agree with the solution in the coalition contract. Then comes the biggest client, offers an unseemly offer – so named Prof. Pirnat, excellent expression – to Minister Pličanič and DLGV, and DLGV then firmly rejects it, and here, the ministry remains under the MNZ. I don't want to hurt anyone or anything, but I want to show you, Members, where these things are going. The Coalition Treaty is not concrete, it is the agreement of those who sign this treaty. An agreement can be amended at any time. This has proved to be the case in the area of economic democracy. Do not give up on your expertise and credibility so easily as to trample on it. You made a deal, I congratulate you, you put together a coalition, you made a deal, but I hope you didn't comply. Yesterday on the board, I offered you our amendment in good faith. I said: the amendment is nothing complicated, nothing professional, nothing political, just leaving things the way they are. If you have failed in the coalition arrangements where, by your power and professional arguments and the support you have in the professional public, you have to hit the table in such a way as to show your power as independent Members in accordance with the Constitution and insist on a professional decision. So much for the U.S. Attorney's Office. And just one more word about the Public Administration Act. Of course, we did not expect this government to make a strategy within one month to resolve this state administration and the country. However, I repeated yesterday, the government's leadership was taken over by a party that had been preparing for the takeover of power for three years, which, several months before the elections, waved with a yellow book, ten plus one hundred plus ten, I don't know, reasons, and explained to us that it had all the answers to all the questions. We do not deny it, it is their right as the right of the opposition party, but in view of these preparations, to this intensity, given all that they have explained to us, we thought that at least the expert and basic solutions and strategies knew and would submit them in the Law on State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u99	Replica Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In fact, I consider it an honor to have Mrs Kociper say that the way I think and speak most about me. It is true, I am thinking anti-corruption and I am constantly speaking out against corruption, because I know that no one will be able to condemn me for one euro, that I have never worked in an organization or with any land or anything, that you will not find my name in relation to the tax havens of my name, and I firmly hope that neither my children have, of course, started their careers, have graduated and so on. And because of that, I am also glad that you are disturbed by my way of saying this in public that it is very painful for you. That is why, Madam Parliament, you appealed to the prosecution yesterday in an inextricable way to boycott work on economic crime in the coming year. I like this very much, this way, and this is what Parliament is meant for. I stress once again what the former President of the German Parliament said in the festive speech, "who claims to be," he said, "a dispute or controversy about Parliament is something bad, it is only a glimmer of democracy". I am not in favour of gliding democracy, I am in favour of having the parliamentarians openly and clearly say what is important to the public. And now we are at the beginning of a government's path, and we must commit it to work as transparently as possible with these debates. I want it from every government, from every government forever. And that's what I'm gonna do to my government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor to prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! This debate on an important law on state administration is already being translated into some irrational debates, from which I am and to which I am being restrained. But I am going back to this proposal for a law that is on the table today, which I think is very similar to that of Positive Slovenia, that it is necessary to amend the Law on State Administration, that through this law it is necessary to achieve that a lot of ballast that has accumulated in these segments will somehow be cancelled, that the State Administration will be effective, that it will be as the honest country and the honest nation does. Even if Positive Slovenia were a government party and formed a government, and it also formed legislation, the State Administration Act would probably have drawn up a deliberate, deliberate bill. I would prepare it in such a way that it would be analytically transparent as to what this law would bring good and in what way it would preserve all those segments that it would pursue. I'd make one that wasn't political, so apolitical. And I would make it so that I could be fully in line with the Constitution. Today, this bill does not respond positively to all these elements that I have listed. In some segments, marriage is very reckless. Of course, he is liked by both our citizens and our citizens as much as anyone else likes him, as it is in some segments of cosmetic corrections. We're not for that. We are in favour of having, in spite of everything, some elements that would affect well-organised state administration. It is a pity that we do not fit into the elements that have already been exposed several times today, a segment that also concerns the Constitution, which we define as the third judicial branch of power. The fact that the Coalition Treaty lays down certain content and moves does not in any way justify that this is not consistent with the Constitution. The Coalition Treaty cannot be a subordinate act of the Constitution. The Constitution is the highest national act that should be respected. And if the coalition treaty somehow shapes this differently and assumes otherwise, then it should and should be in line with the constitutional and constitutional principles. It's about shutting down some offices. I will not touch the one already touched by my colleague Frangež, who covers slightly more technical content. I would touch on those offices which concern human rights, i.e. all those offices whose content is entered from or in the declaration of human rights, either European, world institutions or, lastly, the United Nations, the Office on Equal Rights, the Office on Religious Issues, including the Office on Minority Issues. It is also interesting to hear from a minority representative that he does not have even the most sophisticated opinion drawn up on this issue of the abolition of the office. It is a very superficial creation of a law, for which we do not want to contribute in whole and in all debates, rather than constructively to make the law acceptable to those of us who see differently in certain segments. This is a matter of the state's attorney's office, and this is not only about culture but also about other very important old people. And however they treat and perceive our debates as an attack on the trainee, I must absolutely deny it. It is only a constructive contribution and a slightly more subtle treatment of all these issues, which will securely entail some consequences. Today, many times we talk about the lack of results or the consequences that will result. You know, it seems like the government jumps, and then they say, "Hop, now it's going to be what it's going to be." We'd like to analyse this and see what we're going into. And that this will be therefore effective, that costs will be lower and that it will be more effective in addressing all these areas. I support all the amendments tabled by our party Positive Slovenia, including the opposition party SD. However, I am very skeptical of this law, which I think could be better prepared, and, finally, one fear and one fear arises if you see that the law is not already in line with the circle of the coalition on the ground, that there are different opinions and different views on the creation of an entire law on state administration, so that we cannot be justly satisfied with it and completely calm when we adopt this law. I'm sure, except for the amendments we tabled, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The last one in this band has the word mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, nice greeting! I think we need to be clear here, and we also need to be clear – every government has the right to make life easier to rule. This government, which is now, has every right. Each government also has the right to set up such people who are easier to work with because they are more qualified because they are trusted. And this government has this right, and it would not be right to challenge it. Today, I'm going to make two points. The first thought is this famous story, which we are listening to today, is already an important part of the work and is linked to the prosecution. Whether this is constitutional at all, the Constitutional Court will, of course, say at the time of constitutional judgment. But I'm more politically interested in something. What must happen to a party that has so strongly advocated the principle in coalition negotiations that it is politically unhygienic, inappropriate that it is a minimum condition for a mandate holder, a left or a right person who is under suspicion or under some procedure to have no control over the prosecution? What politically must happen if the basic condition of that customer disappears into the air? Maybe you can tell me that, Mr. Secretary. Another warning, I think, is a desire – hard to give as an opposition a warning – but of course the Government of the Republic of Slovenia services for climate change. Whether climate change is or not, this is, of course, a question today that is no longer hypothetical. So. And we have great damage as a country, like the European Union and so on. At the moment, only 9 European countries out of 27 have this service associated with the environment. Climate change is a lot more. We're talking about the economy, we're talking about energy, we're talking about health and a lot of other things. I think, Your Honor, you made a mistake here. But maybe if you give me some attention, I'll talk easier. Thank you. But would you like to tell me how you guarantee that now this service you're shutting down will still remain horizontal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I guess so. That's why I'm reopening my application. Please, we're starting our application. Mr. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It's obviously a very sensitive matter. And I personally believe it is my duty, of course, to express my opinion on this matter. My duty and my right. Since the matter is obviously so sensitive, I also ask you why he is in such a hurry to do so if now, if I am not mistaken, the prosecution has been operating for 20 years within the framework of justice. Wouldn't it be wise to wait, to reconcile things in the coalition, if we can't coordinate them, let's leave them. Now we feel like we're trying to make a difference. I personally feel that I must act on my conscience. So the question arises to me, how do I decide? Is it as proposed by Minister Plitschani – which I believe is, of course, an excellent expert on this subject with a lot of experience – or is it the way that the coalition somehow wants it? 17. 2. Mr Minister has been to our parliamentary group and we have received a document of the proposal to amend the coalition treaty with arguments. It's too long for me to read this right now, I'm going to take the lead. Mr Minister, of course, gives arguments that the prosecution remains within the justice ministry. And I think, of course, there's a lot of arguments for that. On page 4, the following is written, "the proposed amendment to the concept of criminal investigation [[Transfer of jurisdiction from the court to the State Prosecutor's Office]] is an additional reason against the transfer of powers for the State Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior. The termination of a judicial investigation does not in any way constitute a police and prosecutor's investigation, but it can only be a transfer of jurisdiction to the Attorney General's office. So such a planned change can only be an additional argument that the State Prosecutor's Office cannot be placed in the MNZ even at a symbolic level. As long as the investigation is no longer conducted by a court of law, apart from the rare orders for the worst interference in human rights, it is therefore necessary that the State Prosecutor's Office is not arranged for the police, but separate, functional and organisational from them. Both after the current CAP and after the expected changes, the state prosecutor also controls police action in specific cases from the point of view of legality." This is to conclude and on three, four pages is to be argued. Now, you tell me, how should a Member who wants to work well for the benefit of the people he was elected from? Whether I should follow the Minister's instructions, which I respect, even though I know him for a short time, I think he is a very competent, professional, integrity person, or some others - I don't know, see, a difficult question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Well, welcome to my side, too! My colleague, Mr Roman Jakič, has the floor. Let's get ready, please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I came forward because I am sitting in this hall listening very carefully to all the discussions. I must say that Mr Vogrin gave me a point when he said how to vote. In accordance with the Constitution, according to your conscience. And if you respect your conscience, given that you have voted in such a way, within the parliamentary group, that your party has voted as you have just said, and that the Minister publicly acknowledges that he disagrees with the proposal on the table and opposes the merger in this way, then I expect you to vote, but not that it will be obvious to us that the coalition parties are discrediting Positive Slovenia. You're discrediting yourself if you don't follow what you're convinced is right for this country. And at this point, I'm just wondering how you're going to decide when we vote. Because by telling the public that you are against the fact that the police will not be subject to the prosecution, but vice versa, you will have to clear your conscience yourself. I also wanted to make a call because my colleague Jerovšek, in his style, was saying what he was saying, I will not list everything, for example, from where in Luka Koper with 140 million plus in the years 2004 to 2008, there was more than 100 million holes. Not to mention that Hit created 3% of the social gross product and when taken over by SDS personnel, it went underwater, about Iskraemeco, Intereuropa, about the donation of Slovenian steel mills. But I wanted to tell him something else. When you speak of the prosecution – while you mentioned your children, I would mention your brother, the constitutional judge, who is associated with the ideologist Peter Jambrek and Lovro Sturm, ministers, in 1928 [[...]] [[Laughing in the hall]] 1998, I'm sorry. I like to laugh, Mr Jerovšek, but this is a serious topic. In 1998, the Constitutional Judges adopted a unanimous decision, where they said so, quote, "the constitutional classification of the prosecution between the judiciary on one hand and the lawyer and the notariat on the other clearly indicates that the founder was also a traditional view of the prosecution as part of the judiciary in a broader sense. Although both the Home Affairs Authority, through the competent ministry and the State Prosecutor's Office, are independent state authorities, in functional terms, the State Prosecutor's Office is the one that may require certain action from the internal affairs authorities, and these authorities must act in accordance with these instructions of the State Prosecutor's Office, because otherwise it is not possible to effectively carry out the task of prosecuting the perpetrators of crimes." This situation essentially requires the functional appointment of internal affairs bodies to the State Prosecutor's Office and not vice versa, ladies and gentlemen. This is the position of the Constitutional Court, where three of your ideologists are not talking about all the experts who today say it's an unacceptable story. I mentioned the borderline declaration. I'm not going to quote it again. Look over the border. But colleague Romana Tomc will have a problem as head of the Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to convince that this country does not really respect the decision of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, which also says exactly what the Constitutional Judges said in 1998. Let me finish, and of course I won't come to this point again. Colleague Alenka spoke of the lack of a financial assessment of this law. It's true, there's no financial rating. Nor is it a comparative analysis of what this means and whether such legislation exists in this world, not in the world, I will identify myself in the 27 most democratically developed countries that form the European Union. It's not. That's not the solution! She had it 20 years ago, and this ended it after one year, because this is exactly what she found that it is not possible that now the interior minister will be able to control the work of those who otherwise control his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I had a feeling that my colleague, Jakič, wanted to deal with my brother and with what he wrote in the constitutional decision, but I agree with that, absolutely. And now, I don't know whether or not you understand the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which remains unchanged and provides that law enforcement authorities are functionally subordinated to prosecutors and prosecutors. This is all further strengthened by the amendment of the Prosecutor's Act submitted by the former Minister. This is exactly the only argument that I think was for Lista Virant that she wanted to combine the fact that this will be a functional subordination of law enforcement authorities, being a pretend criminal, more feasible to make it a shorter path. Let the minister fix me if that's not the case. Absolutely. Otherwise, colleague Jakič, I would have liked it better if we didn't talk about it today if the ministry stayed there. At the same time, I am pleased that there has been a lot of pain on the day that the actual prosecution becomes operational so that economic crime can be successfully prosecuted. That seems to be a painful point in your client. It should be so that we all work together to make it operational to reduce corruption and economic crime. I hope we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u112	Once again, hello! Too bad Mrs. Kociper's not in the hall. Is he coming back? [[advertising from the hall]] Great, great. I just wanted to say that I have the feeling that Mrs Kociper and I have very good discussions, because we are forcing each other to work with arguments and thus make things a little clearer and make things clearer. That's why I wouldn't avoid using names. Why, though, should we be afraid to use names, because we are not afraid of arguments, nor are the debates so dry. If I go back to that thing where I gave her the ball, then she gave it back to me when we were talking about who's going to be after the criminals now, whether it's the prosecutor or the minister. I claim that the prosecutor, she claimed that the minister, because she was coming from a party's decision and thus concluded that this would mean that the minister would determine who would be persecuted. She may come from her own experience or understanding, but if she knows that a minister is directing or in some way determining whom they must imprison and whom they must persecute, she must report it immediately. That's the first thing. And the other thing I see. What the Minister can do — this is to provide material conditions. Those who know better the work of these organs know where the underlying problem is. The fundamental problem in these processes is that when accused, prosecutors are practically exchanged at each hearing and do not know the details of the case. While on the other hand, the lawyer is always the same. And this lawyer, normally, knows things to zero as if they were domestically said. And that's the problem, why things don't work out the way they should today. And it is the duty of the Minister to ensure such conditions that these things can work. And once again, if both of you are members of the government and if the prosecution is independent, it is practically in some way irrelevant, under the auspices of which this case belongs. Certainly, however, what you have repeatedly stressed today is that we did not have a problem with the prosecution staying under justice in the NS. There's no problem, but where, because you've been asking what changes, what changes in man, what changes in politics to do it. Yeah, we signed a coalition agreement. And at least as far as New Slovenia is concerned, it seems ridiculous to you, but it seems to me that politics works as such and all of us if we give the word that we keep that word. Without this, it is simply not possible to work. I'm sorry. And if we have written in this coalition contract that changes can be achieved, only if we all agree, then the rules of the game are clear. And this rule will also be followed when the SDS wants to make a difference, and not everyone else will want it. They will be subject to the same rules. However, it seems essential to me, once again, that we should keep our word for politics. That's one thing. Mr. Möderndorfer asked: "Please let us know who will replace something, what will change, who will perform these tasks?" Mr Möderndorfer, the law states, I think, in Article 1, that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will assume the functions of the Office for Equal Opportunities. So that's one answer. Then, Article 11 states that this large ministry of education, and so on, will assume the tasks now performed by the Office of Religious Communities, is said to have been justified. Article 5 then states that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will assume the tasks now performed by the Office for Climate Change. Mr Möderndorfer, you have to admit that this is in writing, and I also admit that you said honestly when you said, "Even if we were in power, we should change something." You're right. And here I completely understand you, so you must understand us that we are trying to make certain things better. And, well, Mr. Misich, he knows a thing or two to salt and so nice to say about counting and counting. You know, that's when 44 votes went up to 48, and we didn't teach you how to count.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u114	Now, given that you've mentioned that there's some way we can understand each other, I have to tell you again, because you don't seem to understand. We don't get along. And we do not understand, in particular, in this context, that you simply cannot understand that the coalition covenant cannot be above the law and over the National Assembly. Therefore, in this temple we speak only of what is true of this temple, and this is legislation. And that's why we're talking about marriage today. What you have inside the coalition, please, is your problem and your problem to discuss publicly. And we don't care. We are only interested in what the public will eventually ask — is this legal or not? Well, it's not legal, that's what we say. And in that we don't understand each other because we don't challenge your coalition agreement, we just understand the law. And here you'll have to admit to me that you just can't put everything in one bag. And that's why we have no success in understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Please prepare Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. After a very in-depth debate by the speaker on whether it really matters whether it is with one minister or with another minister, I can understand that your assessments are common coalition if this is the case today that Mr Gorenak is more capable than Mr Plitsnik. And this for the area of the prosecution, for which he acknowledged on the committee when we discussed his candidacy, that he did not know him well and that he would therefore obtain a secretary of state who would know this area better than he did. Such arguments make it difficult for us and the public to convince us. Today, it has been mentioned that a coalition is a great happy family. I understand the family as a community where we are together because we share love and we know how to communicate and not subject ourselves to what we can do today and yesterday many times, not to say many times, we have heard, "we have submitted ourselves to the desire of the largest coalition party". That's it. But your problems within this great happy family will indeed have to be solved on your own. However, I would also say to Mr Vogrin that the Constitution does speak clearly and determines how Members should vote, that is only in their conscience. So I believe that for you that our amendment would support and leave the prosecution where it has been for 20 years, as it has been said, it will not be a problem, because your conscience tells you this, orders from the parties or the largest coalition party something else, but the constitution, which is probably our highest act, speaks as I said. Ladies and gentlemen of the Virant List, DeSUS and also Nsi, today you can show that you speak and do the same. Not like the SDS colleagues. Today, in one of the other substantive discussions, you could hear what they were saying, I think, a year and a half ago, and what they are doing today on the same subject, maybe under even worse conditions, they are doing. Show us and show all the Slovenian public that you have a spine. And that if we are tempted to do something, we also know on the buttons that are in front of us, to press it as our conscience commands us, not the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much, mag. Cousin. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor to prepare, please, Mrs Patricia Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In this debate on the amendments to the Draft Law on State Administration, it is increasingly clear to me that this government will certainly not have 100 days of peace. In fact, the government has designed its framework of work and its way of working through this law. There is this practice everywhere, and I don't really know why it would be different with us. All the debaters, mainly by the opposition, are discussing how nothing has changed, how the reorganisations are bad and so on. To be perfectly honest, the radical reorganisation hasn't even started well. For the first time, there has been such a large pool of resources, and we must understand that this story for the Government is very difficult and also difficult. If you expect the Minister to be the only one to be replaced in a single ministry, then I can view this as a cheap demagogy for the public. Because there was a lot of problems in the ministries, so we are in this situation as we are. Now let's just leave the whole team exactly the same as they've been before. I guess we'd like to keep the existing teams lined up and working the same way we do now. So I might ask Mrs Bratušek not to worry so much about who will drive an individual minister, but to pay particular attention to what the Minister will do and what the effects of his rule and his policy will be. Before us is the stabilisation of the financial situation of the country, and I expect Mrs Bratušek to help the government with her knowledge and experience in this area. Since defending the existing structure and regulation and commenting on various media articles that have not properly verified the information, citizens do not have much. I am not saying that the path to the goal chosen by this government must not be commented on or criticised, but I expect your criticisms to be further focused on the implementation of measures to stabilise the financial situation of the country and not just on the criticism of how someone has done so. I would really like your constructive, well-respected opposition not to remain on paper alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u120	We heard here today the terminology of "toying with people." In fact, this would be true if the new government did not respond to the situation we are in. In fact, the social consequences of the previous administration and the increase in the number of employees in new offices and agencies have led to a decrease in the number of public officials and offices. In the new offices and agencies, the former government has actually suffered from new employees, which might not be so bad if it also took care of measures to raise the economy. I also wonder those who wonder what has changed, what has been wrong, what has been wrong, that all these changes have to be made. I am sure that, and everyone here, we can see that because our debt is already almost €17 billion, I think that this number is a sufficient reason for changes in legislation, such as the Law on State Administration, to be necessary. However, it will certainly not be enough to change this law, since in our country economic crime is at an appropriate pace, which I have also seen in my current service before entering the Member States, since I have been employed by the State Administration in the field of tax inspection. There's a lot of work to be done here for all of us. Some of you also very much miss the financial calculation of the contraction of employees and offices. And even though we would have given it very precisely, I'm asking why the exact number at this point is the one that would say that change is necessary. I believe that the profession and, in fact, the whole public have rightly assessed that rationalisation is necessary. We also know that, following the payment of discharges for these addresses, there will be no more outflows from the budget. But I strongly agree with those who say it's not good to go to school with ideology. Yes, it must also be removed from the current school system because the young are deliberately moving away from the national consciousness, love for our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor, and if necessary, we are reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President. I note that if we are to be truly rational and long-term beneficial, the government should listen to the profession better when reorganising government services and state administrations and obtain as wide a consensus as possible, or agree also with opposition Members and Members. It may even make sense to legalize the transformation or reorganization of services with the required two-thirds majority. Thus, it would not be possible for us to open or shut down individual services or resources at any time when we take power. Just like it suits someone. Unfortunately, some of their chairs are more important than what is good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is constitutionally clear that the Prosecutor's Office falls under justice and is by no means under the executive branch of the Ministry of Interior. That is why you are now some of the Members and Members of the Coalition in the dilemma of how to decide. Make your decision on your conscience, as I will make my decision and, as always, when I vote, without coercion, without pressure, it is very important that we listen to the profession today. Mr Minister, I will also follow you in the coalition, and because as an expert, as a professional, I will vote against you if we do not support our amendment, which we have proposed or tabled by the SD and Positive Slovenia. You can still do this because the vote is ahead of us and not behind us. The Slovenian professional public and the general lay public also expect this from you. Mr. Minister, show that you are what you are, your rebellion and we will follow you no matter how you look at us, as an opposition or anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Three panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin. Please, if the mags are ready. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u124	Nevertheless, I would like to look for a common denominator and a common point with my colleague Möderndorfer, not so much difference.The difference between us is that we come from different beliefs. In Positive Slovenia they certainly still think that the minister is the one who gives specific instructions to prosecutors, but I don't mean that. That's probably why Mrs Bratusek said and used the thesis, if you do, but now the coalition has to decide which minister is more capable of doing it. It is simply not about ability, it is about bringing together the work of prosecutors and criminals and providing material conditions. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Even if I close my eyes, I still have a lively yellow booklet with 10 plus 100 and I still hear Mr Ivan Janša's cry at the performance that the crisis is now over in Slovenia. So these two deny what we are doing, and we want to convince you that the solutions you are offering us are not well thought out and that their consequences cannot be assessed to the point. However I read Article 1 of this Act, Mr Tonin, see because not all texts are before each other, "The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs performs tasks in the fields of labour relations and rights from work, employment and vocational training, equal opportunities, families, social affairs, disability, disabled persons, war veterans and victims of war violence and graves". These are just work areas and there is no talk of how it will be organised. And that's what we're talking about. The organisation is not envisaged and it is not known whether the Office for Equal Opportunities will operate at the level of the Directorate, whether its activity will be dispersed and transferred to the Directorate for the Family. Well, I've already said something about the victims of war violence and war graves, and I thank the Minister for that part of the answer. I expect him to think carefully about which institutions carry out tasks in accordance with the instruments of establishment and not to overlap with the activities of other institutions and not to interfere with the assessment of the work of other institutions. But there is another problem that you forget. The first move of the new government was the dismissal of three officials. When they resolved or resolved the head of the Religious Community Office, the interested public, to whom the Roman Catholic Church and other religious communities belong, announced that such an office was not even needed because it was the sentiment and sediment of the former regime. So the point is, there was no conflict here. However, we are those who follow equal opportunities, and we point out that the Office for Equal Opportunities is being abolished after 20 years, and I am only sad that now that Parliament has 31 Members, we are abolishing the Office. If we think that everything that brings equal opportunities policy has been achieved by sitting in Parliament 31 Members, I assure you that this is not the case, because it will be necessary to see what the real effects are and what progress is being made in the policies of individual areas when women receive as much weight in Parliament as we have always said they should – because the role of women cannot be seen unless at least one third of women are in a political body. And that's what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much, mag. Spending. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows! Today I have listened to this debate, of course you all remain in your position. We're like a coalition and you're like the opposition. The fact is, every time you adopt such a law, it's important what you want to do with it, what the effects will be, and why we accept it today. For 20 years we have been looking at some things, especially today we are talking in multiple layers. I think it was a major problem for the prosecution to be transferred to the interior ministry, while the prosecution was constantly, say, the last 20 years under the judiciary. See, the effects were that we knew, and even the lowest layer in our society we know that the prosecution did not perform its function. These parallels between the Ministry of Interior, the police and the prosecution were not best coordinated. The second most important thing to talk about, however, is the persecution of economic crime, which was precisely in the book Mrs Potata was talking about, which is intended for the greatest chapter. There we committed ourselves to pursuing economic crime as one of the priorities of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We chase burning thieves in villages who steal pâté for their children because they have 450, 500 or 600 euros in wages and, on the other hand, through some criminal economic acts that are highly sophisticated, literally, as the old Slovenians say, "we sparve matches and throw logs through windows". The problem with these top-notch sophisticated actions is that each lawyer lacks the economic or specific financial skills to operate with. Today, we need criminals, who must be further educated for these top-notch sophisticated crimes in the field of economic crime, to be in constant contact with prosecutors. And look, this system hasn't worked for 20 years, as we found out. Give this system a chance for one year, two years, and I think we'll say in two years, "look, it really didn't work, we admit a mistake." At least let's give this opportunity to all those who are so on their trenches that it doesn't work. But we have identified and identified as a complete society, especially the lower classes of people for whom we are also committed in the National Assembly, find that there is some unknown injustice. If I'm going into law theory, look, the law we're adopting, the law of the prosecution is lex specialis in this case. That's what all lawyers would say, so it's a priority in this law. The prosecution is a purely independent branch: whether it is within the Ministry of Interior or within the framework of the judiciary. And let's give prosecutors and criminals a chance to work in two directions. Whatever the case, all those prosecutors have the opportunity to report if, in any case, the Minister of Interior intervenes in some decision to move the proceedings in another direction that may not be acceptable to him. All this power is vested in prosecutors if they are in one of their spheres and act as professionals. It's just what we talked about today, material possibilities. Sometimes they say there was no material option, some magnetogram broke down, some wiretap machine broke, some things went wrong, projects or some top-of-the-line sophisticated stuff fell on the banal stuff. And today, people walk between us, but they have accounts for all European or non-European institutions or all the islands, and the people I represent are fighting from day to day with 400, 500, 600 euros. And society admits one thing, we've talked about specialties all the time today, especially about the legal profession. Look, in the history of law we can talk, but if we go, I don't know, three thousand years ago, into the Hamarabi code, but if we look at today, the greatest danger was always when all historians discovered when justice came into an extremely large diaspora, that is, the extreme breadth, never the law and justice went hand in hand. But it's kind of idealism to get close, at least in that first natural school of law. And we are our society, a Slovenian modern society that has experienced some hyperinflation mainly of social profiles of staff that have not had a place to work, we have employed them through state administration, in top-level law offices, some top-notch independent institutes that have somehow been "spoiled" to this state administration and where these top-ranking sophisticated crimes of economic crime and corruption have taken place. We're running out of money, you could say, on a subway tube, and on the other hand, we're looking for some effects. And that's the first foundation. The second basis will be, once we have adopted Article 148 of the Constitutional Commission, I hope that we will get him inside and resolve these matters in order to commit ourselves not to go through budgets. That's the first thing. Criticise the minister in two years, give him one year of opportunity, and see if we've made a mistake or not, or if we've stopped the course of these top crimes. I think we did because they don't have anything else to take from me. Our people say you don't have anything to take anymore. I think there are open possibilities that this will work well, that this law should be supported, and above all, that people get the feeling that, in another part, that in bringing together ministries, in public administration, a lot of people do very well, I talk about cops, I talk about soldiers, I talk about other lower officials of the public administration who are doing very well and who are extremely poorly paid. And I've been in the Ministry myself for a few years, I've been in the economy, I've been working abroad, I can tell you that, even in the Ministry of Defence, where I worked. Those who are the worst paid work the most, most of those who have some privileges work the least. And they'd tell me in Styria, they'd have to be put on the market, and if they were experts like that, the economy would suck them up anyway. However, the importance of society and the capitalist system, which we all forget, is an opportunity if we are a social state to give the opportunity for someone to assert that they are coming, but they have to prove themselves on the market. And now it is an extreme opportunity for this government and this national assembly to begin this way. Are we in capitalism, or are we in socialism, and are we done with communism? And let us give each individual the opportunity to show his maximum, without hiding by ministries with great academic titles, by moving the papers to other places and, on the one hand, for certain long-term procedures, we are extremely complicated. And here are the biggest problems we have. In particular, the SDS party and most of your customers who today oppose this said several times: debirocratisation, why we do not have foreign investments. What debirocraticism if you are my middle-generation friends today, they are building houses in neighbouring Austria because they are still waiting for construction permits after a year and a half! It's nonsense. I think today is a basic condition and that you can have a clear conscience, as my colleague Vogrin said, that everyone should decide according to their conscience. I know that I will decide to adopt this law, to confirm it, and that two years from now, we will determine the effects, and then we can give all the other criticisms. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it because there's still some time left? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Articles 7, 9, 16 and 19 and on all the amendments. Mr Justice and Public Administration Minister Senko Plitčanič also wishes to have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! First, I would like to answer Mr Jewn's direct question, which is related to the issue of climate change, very briefly, and then this closing speech, which will be very short. The issue of climate change is extremely important for this country. I know this area very well, I've dealt with it in recent years, so I know how important it is. At the same time, I know that in these past years, even at a time since the existence of a special government service for climate change, what should have been done in this area has not been done. This is also one of the reasons why we have estimated that the objectives that Slovenia must achieve in this area, namely the reduction of CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases, will be better achieved if this area is included in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. At the same time, Mr jedan asked how the Government would ensure the horizontality of the issue. I agree that the issue of climate change is not only a question related to environmental protection, but it is much broader. Here I would like to say that there is a special government service for climate change or any other, of course, it can contribute to the horizontality of such a service, but that is not necessarily the case. A specific case is the ministry I run. This ministry is also in most of its competences, those relating to public administration, of a horizontal nature, so this horizontal nature of this department is highlighted when it prepares regulations and in other ways helps and affects all other departments. The horizontal nature of certain tasks is not necessarily linked to the creation of a specific government service. A lot of views were expressed in today's debate. Some of you supported the law, some of you opposed the law. I found that most of those who supported the government law also supported this law. Most of those who did not support the government law did not support this law either. Different positions are normal in democracy, and this is a purely normal process of parliamentary work. I don't have a problem with that. On the contrary. Good thing that's true, it wouldn't be good if everyone always looked at things the same way. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the following. Slovenia is in a difficult state, the situation is very critical and we do not have much time, so I suggest that the law proposed by the government support this process of setting up and establishing ministries as soon as possible, which is what this law is intended for, and that we address as soon as possible the substantive issues, those that are really important, that we bring this country out of the crisis, in particular those measures related to the economy, with the help of the economy to get on its feet. There's something else I'd like to point out. It is normal that, in the nature of parliamentary democracy, positions are different and, as I have already mentioned, it is right. On the other hand, given the state in which we are, I would like, as a minister and as a member of this government, that the position and opposition in shaping the measures we will try to bring this country out of the crisis as soon as possible, to cooperate as quickly as possible. Cooperation is, I think, the only way we're going to achieve this quality. This is important. It is important, therefore, that the measures proposed by the government and because I hope that the opposition will act constructively, that they will be prepared in good quality, because only if they are prepared in good quality will they be able to have the positive effect that we all want, in particular in relation to the economy, once again. As it is said, I would like to participate in what will actually begin, first with the first step, which will be linked to the budget's rebalancing and then to a whole range of substantive measures, those which are largely envisaged in the coalition contract of this coalition, as well as the types of others that we will find necessary. I therefore propose once again and call on all Members and Members to support the proposed law and to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour at 2.20 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote in half an hour, which will be held at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. I'd like to ask for some peace. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions, so I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hellenic Republic Loan Act, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, an urgent procedure. We will decide on the amendments tabled, which we will do on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 9 March 2012. First, we have an amendment to Article 7. The proposed amendments are sent to the Group of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Articles 9, 16 and 19 of the same drafters. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 9, 16 and 19 are irrelevant and, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment to point 2 is irrelevant. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please sign up on behalf of the parliamentary group to explain your vote. If there has been a misunderstanding, I ask again whether anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, all those who are watching us in front of TV screens! Very briefly, given that the debate was said, I think almost everything. For a while. The minister said again today that he was always an expert at his work. This same minister said that he disagreed with the proposed solution set out in Article 7 of the Law on State Administration. Experts on the left and right also attach to this. The solution proposed by the government is not the best, it is not good and it is not in the spirit of democracy. That is why, in cooperation with the SD in the Positive Slovenia Group, we have drafted an amendment that is now on the table – an amendment that also follows the position advocated today by the Minister for this area. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support and appeal to all other Members and Members. If we want the law to be better than it is ready for the law to be professional, because I doubt its expertise, I think it makes sense for us to attach this amendment and give the whole government the opportunity to take a responsible step on a new path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u134	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? If not, I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their voice individually. If not, we will vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment would not have been accepted. Thus, the amendments to Articles 9, 16 and 19 became irrelevant. We will now decide on the amendment to Article 7, of which the SDS, National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia are proposing. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want to explain their voice individually? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 32. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended Law, and I therefore ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] The amendments have not been tabled or announced. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That way we can move on to a decision on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 34. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item – Proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 15 February 2012, the Group of 25 Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, proposed that Mrs Romano Tomc be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank's representative of the proposal for a further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! On the basis of a coalition agreement, we have drawn up a proposal for a missing Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly. We had a pretty good choice. However, we have decided to propose Ambassador Romano Tomc for this function. It is a candidate who has successfully faced many challenges in her current career. She was employed at the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and was employed at the Association of Employers, as well as at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where Mrs Marjeta Cotman was Secretary of State during the period marked by successful negotiations with the social partners, a social agreement was also concluded during that period and, of course, the successful Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. In the period preceding the election as a member of the National Assembly, she was the Director of the Fund for the Development of Personnel and Grants. The candidate therefore has a wide range of experience in public administration work and, given past employment, has a good view of the area of finance and the economy. I am sure that the candidate will make good use of this experience in the work and conduct of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you support the candidate in the secret ballot. If elected, the leadership of the National Assembly will be balanced for the first time in the history of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u136	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u137	Respectable candidates and candidates! We congratulate our colleague from the SDS for an excellent candidate. I think it has proved to be its past work, and especially during the Presidency, so that we will support it with the greatest joy in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u138	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Maja Dimitrovski has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u139	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, given that it has been quite a while since the signing of the coalition agreement and the appointment of the government, we believe that it is high time to fill the last of the most important leadership functions in the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we will respect the parliamentary practice so far, and also by our votes, we will allow, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Vice-President of the National Assembly from the parties to the ruling coalition, the largest coalition SDS Group. In Positive Slovenia, according to the references provided by the proposed candidate, last but not least, one of the candidates for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we estimate that she will be responsible and successful in carrying out the duties of Vice-President of the National Assembly. In the light of yesterday's wife's decision by the ruling coalition to follow the principle of gender equality in the leadership functions of the National Assembly and to ensure greater participation of women. In the composition of the new government, there is only one minister, which is a big step back compared to the previous government, where there were five ministers. Let us note that almost one third of women sat in the Parliamentary bench at the last election. 29 women have been enrolled in the National Assembly, which has been the largest since its first constitution. In Positive Slovenia we are convinced that we also have good politicians in Slovenia, not only good politicians. We therefore need to give them the opportunity to be recognized by voters as important actors in leadership functions. Therefore, we hope that in the coming term, unfortunately, our proposal does not receive support, perhaps the time has come for women to take the most important role in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The other panellists checked out. I therefore ask you, given that the time set for the debate has not yet expired, whether anyone wants to discuss under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. The National Assembly shall, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide by secret ballot on the election of the Vice-President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Positive Slovenia, Zvonko Lah, Slovenian Democratic Party, Mirko Brulc, Social Democrats, Iva Dimic, Nova Slovenija. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Mojca Prelesnik, Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? Nobody. We can move on to decision-making. Please check for voting devices. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure, a candidate for the Vice-President will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote if you report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.40 p.m. and will last until 14.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in meeting you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-09-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u141	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the consideration of the interrupted third point, this is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 9 March 2012. 77 ballots were distributed and all 77 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid, and 67 votes were valid. 73 Members and Members voted against. / applause/ On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that candidate Romana Tomc has been elected Vice-President of the National Assembly and I therefore sincerely congratulate her. And I'll do it live, if you don't mind. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing the Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior and the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and the Committee on Health of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall meet at the 7th Extraordinary Session of 10. 2. He took note of the conclusion that Ambassadors Ludmila Novak and Members of France Bogovic and Mag. Radovan Žerjav has ceased to function as a Member of Parliament and Member of Parliament because they have taken office in the Government. As a result, Ludmili Novak also ceased to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Health, Franc Bogovic, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, Mag. Mr Žerjav, acting as Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior. The Slovenian People's Party's Emissary Group is 14. 2. 2012 informed the President of the National Assembly of his proposal to propose for the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and Environment, Roman Žveglič, and to be Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior, Jasmine Opec. The New Slovenia Group is 14. 2. 2012 informed the President of the National Assembly of his proposal for the Vice-President of the Health Committee, Janez Vaslet. There are no speakers for the debate on this item, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Home Affairs and a Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and the Committee on Health. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Wednesday at 2 p.m. with 2 p.m. Thank you very much.
