ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I'm notified Procedural? [[...]] Right from the beginning. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I have a very serious procedural proposal. I must tell you that with this unscheduled reference to extraordinary meetings – while the timetables you accept in your colleges do not hold – you are making it impossible for us, committee presidents, to run committees. In some ways, I understand this as underestimating Members and Members and causing unnecessary costs. We're calling off the invitations. Many administrations are preparing – even the Committee on Agriculture keeps on happening that we are no longer sure that we will be able to take our meetings forward at all normally. I ask you, Madam President, to respect Members and Members of Parliament, and at least by the end of the year, at any time you plan to adapt our work to the National Assembly. That's a very serious question. At least those who take Parliament's work very seriously want to work in a systematic way, not that you don't know what's going to happen in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you, fellow Jew. It's not like you don't know what's going to happen in the morning. I had to convene an extraordinary meeting due to the requirement of more than 25 Members and Members. You know I'm bound by the rules of procedure to do this. At the College we agreed on a date of reference and it is clear that the situation is such that there is a great deal to be done in the National Assembly. I guess we all understand that, and by the end of the year, we're just gonna have to brush our teeth. Your committee, my fellow Jew, I think it's been postponed to 3 p.m. today and there's nothing worse. Good. We continue with the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the meetings today cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Saša Kos, mag. Melita Župevc, Borut Ambrožič, Alenka Pavlič by 12 noon, Janko Weber by 12 noon and Mag. Leila Hercegovac by 10:30. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are in the process of presenting the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Alojzij Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! It was only a matter of time before the law with this title and about the same content would come in the parliamentary bench, so there is no surprise — but there is an octorate of urgency. In Positive Slovenia, we stressed the value added tax and its application more than a year ago in the programme we were making up at the time. Especially in discussions, when adopting or rejecting the Public Finance Balance Act. Similarly, initiatives for a higher value added tax rate came, just to remind me, even from the government fiscal world – there was then – the Bank of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and many other distinguished experts. Unfortunately, the government has merely stated that raising the general rate of value added tax is, I quote: 'Last reserve, if with other measures public finances cannot be balanced'. Accompanied by a statement of immorality, behind this pay phone, the last reserve was raised in Article 198 of the ZUJF. To remind myself, this speaks of the application of the general rate in 2014 and 2015 if the surplus deficit escaped from control. An increase of not more than 3 percentage points would be determined directly by the Government. The strange one, if you remember correctly, nocturnal conjecture, didn't spare time. With too little due attention was taken at the time by the hidden caution of Umar, who wrote at the time, I quote: "For model assessments in the current situation are unreliable or produce very scattered results." It is therefore right that we read Umar again today. It seems to me that the July publication, the 2012 Economic Challenges – the analysis of fiscal trends and policies – also concludes that whether it is a matter of rapid or slower consolidation, makes sense to combine measures to reduce expenditure with a measure of increasing indirect taxes. Indirect taxes and among them a key tax, this is a value added tax, which has relatively lower negative effects on economic growth compared to other tax sources. In principle, it is in this country that the latter, what I said last, is economic growth. To avoid any confusion, in Positive Slovenia we have talked and talked about the use, the increase, the prudent increase in the general rate of value added tax and not the reduction in the rate of consumption of those goods and services that are subject to social assessment, public interest, increased accessibility, reduced deficits. The difference is obvious. We do not claim that everything in this proposal has just gone away, but with good experience and knowledge it would be better if we were included in the public consultation on the review of reduced value added tax rates, which was launched by the European Commission at the moment. This aims to gather opinions from citizens, businesses, individuals, other stakeholders on areas where a review of reduced value added tax rates is needed. At this stage, the Commission does not propose any abolition of the existing reduced rate or even a proposal for a new reduced VAT rate. Two separate proposals link two common points: the same is a dark tax subject of desire, these are reduced rates of value added tax, and the date of receipt to the National Assembly, this is 8 October 2012. Significantly, on the same day. But the difference in content is obvious. The reason for applying the increase or reduction in the VAT rate may be social or political. Not without a reason. Due to the selectivity contained in this law, it seems to us that there is also a short-term budgetary necessity behind the changes that are ahead of us, especially political tidalisation. The fact that we face more severely from day to day is that the scale of the deficit is greater and larger than we expected. Tax increases – this is also a proposal offered by the Government in this package – cannot be overlooked. That's a fact. It's a different fact than we talked about six months ago when we were taking in the ZUJF. This task must be carried out in a serious, professional and responsible manner. Government and coalition: keep the title of the law and correct it, change its contents – in this case, not the crisis tax you are talking about, is enough a normal tax with a slight increase in the general rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u5	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we continue to discuss the Government's proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act by taxing certain services with a general 20% rate. This applies mainly to those services and goods that are taxed at a lower rate today, including animal food, printing, flowering, municipal services, hairdressing services and so on. From the point of view of value added tax and the professional point of view, the most important or most professional tax with as little degree as possible is for value added tax. This prevents different tax rates from affecting the market position of the individual economic operator. This means, in other words, that when it comes to interchangeable products or products or interchangeable services, we can influence by value added tax that some manufacturers or those who provide services may also have a different, better, market situation due to different rates. From this point of view, one tax rate is one which is least distorting or not distorting competition on the market. This is certainly one of the characteristics of value added tax. Here we must say that the European Union countries did not adhere to this rule or only some. There are very few who have only one tax rate. I think this is still Denmark, where they tax all goods and all services at one tax rate. On the other hand, value added tax is for all the budgets of the European Union and also ours, a tax that brings a lot and that actually taxes – we can say a little symbolically – every step we take and therefore every step we take is taxed. Since this tax represents an important source of the budget – if we look at our public finances, then we can find that, above all, in 2009, we have acquired a very large deficit, which must now be addressed or reduced by increasing certain taxes. Among other things, the proposal is to increase the tax on certain services or certain products. On the other hand, this tax is regressive. In other words, this means that, according to their incomes, those with lower incomes pay more than those with higher incomes. This means that each of their incomes is taxed and, in a relative sense, this actually means this. The explanation of this proposal also states that the lower rate constitutes an indirect subsidy for interchangeable goods, particularly in the case of interchangeable goods. Therefore, in all the directives adopted on value added tax, the European Commission has very carefully structured individual product groups or products which can be taxed at a lower rate. Here we can talk about how a certain type of food is used both for animals and for humans. In this case, a lot of administrative efforts are needed, a lot of administrations to determine from a professional point of view which food is taxed at one stage or another. The current proposal of the Government also represents additional administrative efforts. However, it also means always when the value added tax increases, a certain shock for producers or providers of these services for which it is proposed to increase this tax. Here I am referring to the current liquidity issue – that is why these proposals should also be examined from this point of view. Further discussion or follow-up should examine the social impact, the administrative and technical aspects or the administrative implications, the impact on liquidity, the impact on distortions of competition. Once again, I must point out that the European Commission has deliberately classified products and services into individual classes or classes that can be taxed at a lower rate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this proposal is appropriate for a further procedure. However, it is necessary, as I have already mentioned, to examine the broader aspects of the economy as a whole, of the social sector, of the finances and of the distortion of competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Good morning! Since we have taken the first steps of this government for fiscal consolidation, we have pointed out that this must be more gradual and, on the other hand, that we must strengthen the budgetary resources with new tax revenues. In particular, we had in mind such tax burdens, which have the widest possible basis, so that individual burdens are as low as possible, and on the other hand, property taxes or taxes that burden unwanted social behaviours, such as environmental taxes. The government has prepared a amendment to the value added tax law, which we estimate is not suitable for further consideration. Let me remind you that in the previous mandate, the Borut Pahor government has set a lower value added tax rate for some of the product and service groups. This was then a special, specific anti-crisis measure, allowing to date the survival of a small family company, too self-employed in activities such as hairdressing services, household cleaning or, for example, flowering. This was an anti-crisis measure that reduced the baseline burden, reduced the pressure on end-users and made survival possible for these activities, family companies and individuals. Moreover, with such treatment of certain specific services, which are considered to be highly susceptible to the transition to a grey economy, we are convinced that we have also maintained or even increased the engagement of these services in the official black part of our economy. Hairdressing services – 10,000 are hairdressers. Florists – 5,000 people, mostly self-employed or small family companies, are employed in this sector in Slovenia. Cleaners and cleaners. All of these are activities that can quickly become part of the grey economy when the issue of the account is simply no longer necessary. You will say that there is no problem with value added tax – the characteristic of the tax is that it is paid by the final consumer, the final buyer. And you will say that because the hairdresser, for example, will carry the increased burden of the tax on the final consumer by raising the price. I remind you of some very clear and alarming data from some of these branches. In flowering only, the volume of purchase of individual buyers has decreased by 40% in the last four years due to the crisis. When we go to the flower shop as an individual buyer, we buy 40% less than before. Therefore, the reserves, which would mean that these individuals and these family companies will be able to adapt to the new situation, are not. We therefore propose that, in this work, the government consider more appropriate solutions to the broader tax coverage, a broader tax base that will put less burden on individual family companies and self-employed people. Last but not least, given that these are all groups of services and products which are subject to a lower value added tax in neighbouring countries, this will mean that these services in Slovenia, in comparison, will be extolled, and these activities will lose competitiveness compared to their competition from neighbouring countries. In particular, the Government's intention is to increase the value added tax rate for printing. Slovenia, because of its smallness, because of its beautiful but only 2 million people, is already in a specific position where there is no high supply and the newspapers must be printed with relatively small loads – compared to neighbouring countries – to hold the price race. The development of democracy is closely linked to the development of the press. Just a printed word, a critical thought has created conditions for increased awareness, the development of critical thoughts and thus preconditions for the wider democratic participation of the people. At this moment, Slovenian newspapers are located each other at an extremely sensitive moment. Even if there were no such measure, their fate is uncertain. Each of them is in its own specific transition. Each of them faces the challenge of how, according to the new habits of people, to make adjustments and adapt to the needs of new time related to new technologies, changing reading habits and so on. But that does not mean that we do not need them — on the contrary! Social Democrats are advocates of an inclusive society, a society where each individual can think critically, where each individual and individual participates in processes that require social governance. We want an inclusive country, an open society, and the prerequisite for such a country is not only information, but also the diversity of this interpretation of our social reality, the diversity of views and opinions that Slovenian newspapers provide every day. We cannot insist that with the additional burdens of this industry, which is already operating at the rate of profitability today, we are causing the failure of publishers on the long run to achieve what some obviously want. Forgive me for the extremeness of the words – but stupid, unseemly, uninformed, unthinking and therefore uncritical people. I wonder if anyone could find such a picture in their interest. Social democracy as an advocate of a democratic and open society is certainly not. This is a non-systemic intervention in the value added tax system, which is also pointed out by important institutions, including Banka Slovenije, which, like some other measures that we were familiar with at yesterday's meeting, will increase the grey economy. I am pleased that the opinion on these changes in the National Assembly is broader than the opinion of the opposition alone. We want to work together to find that these measures are not appropriate for today, that they do not lead to the desired goal and that they will reduce the chances that as a nation of thinking people we will find effective ways out of the crisis, to increase competitiveness, to increase creativity and innovation, to increase thought. Social Democrats propose that we reject this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u9	Mr Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Members of this call have no luck, because we must adopt so many laws that make the situation of our constituents worse. It is also one of the laws that is supposed to undermine certain services or certain products. That's not nice. Whatever the proposal is, we won't be very happy to confirm it. In the Civil Gazette, if we do not find any better way to meet our budgetary requirements, this law, or this amendment to the law, the change in these specific groups, will be supported at the final stage. We are aware that it is likely that this calculation of 70 million, which the proposal is intended to bring, is questionable. I think it's going to work in community services, because we know that it's no different than the tax being charged and billed, and maybe in newspapers where it's not going otherwise. Everywhere else – as we know for sure – this profit, which is calculated, will be significantly lower due to this increase and will not bring in €70 million. We will be happy to see another option in the Civil Gazette. We had different thoughts. One thing was that, as some predecessors have already said, in some ways they would just go to a single VAT raise and thus avoid discussing which things are more urgent for us and which are less urgent for us. In a way, things would have been simplified, even though this would have had a significant impact on more layers of the population, so to speak — as someone said — at every step. If the overall VAT rate were raised by one percentage point, we know that the planned revenue for 2013 from VAT is 3 billion 63 000 and that this would bring about about – it is difficult to calculate because I do not know the structure of the tax, how much of it is 8.5 and how much 20 - about 160 million euros. This would be a much larger contribution, which means that this would on the other hand mean greater tightening of the belt everywhere, higher costs in companies and elsewhere. However, there is something — when we discussed raising VAT six months ago or one year ago, the situation was very different and I was very opposed to raising VAT in general because we know that this is a measure of a very short-term nature. Very quickly everything is transferred to prices, through inflation prices, and this means eliminating the impact of VAT increases. Now we have a specific situation, because we have adopted a series of laws that are supposed to ease this crisis or reduce the deficit and, among them, that we have almost all the budget expenditure in some way frozen, both in the form of salaries, pensions and all these matters. This effect would be significantly greater at this point than it would have been three years ago, or still when things are normalising. There's one more thing I'm thinking about in person. We will have to take a systematic look at the structure of our revenue and expenditure in the budget. A long time ago, when I was thinking about it, I said that it would probably be good for us to look back a little bit and compare ourselves a little bit with some European countries, because these are our biggest customers – why we are actually spending money and how we are collecting it. This comparison would probably be interesting. Our resources and revenues differ structurally from German, Italian or French. We probably have a lot of differences on the expenditure side, too, and there would be no harm if we tried to compare ourselves a little. Personally, I think we need to take a long-term drive towards greater taxation of consumption. Here we have some reserves in the European space, which is very important because we are in some ways neighbouring countries, which are close and very affected by the sales power of our companies and our products – these countries are mainly with more VAT. And spending when I say consumption would be higher, that means a higher consumption tax, and those who have money to spend should pay something more. [[...]] But I have two things in mind. We must ensure that the wage tax is reduced in the long run, because we are very competitive. This measure, raising tax rates in specific segments, would not be necessary if there were any other way to increase revenue. I think it's the best way to increase economic growth, employment and all that. If we do not come up with an answer to this rbus, how to do it – I have told myself many times – in what way – we have a practically inactive labour market, we have too much workload and we are therefore very uncompetitive, and too much red tape and so on. We heard entrepreneurs and economists yesterday what they wanted – very little. Unfortunately, however, I am disappointed at these referendum initiatives when I try to sort of regulate the operations of banks so that there will be fewer losses to try to make order in state-owned companies. We are squandering our own branches and are running out of chances to say that we can now write better results than dividends, from state-owned enterprises, better positions in banks and everywhere. Then that's the kind of thing that comes along. For the long term, as I say, I think that the country should have more taxes and higher taxes comparable to other countries for consumption and less coverage of wage taxes. And another very important thing. The budgets we have for the next two years, which we are considering, are an emergency for me. We can't save any more, and we can't create any more. I hope we're actually going to be somewhere better than we planned. In any case, I cannot accept the fact that we still have a billion deficits planned this year and next year. We should find courage and strength and determination to accept these things in order to reduce this deficit. If I were raising VAT, I might have raised it by a percentage point, and I didn't spend that money. Part of it would be aimed at reducing budget deficits in realisation. In the next phase, however, I would try to work on lower workloads. And there's one more thing. In doing so, the government has a mandate with the ZUJF to act. I don't know exactly how she's bound when she comes from below 3 or something. I don't know exactly what it's like, there's practically no need for Members to ask us now in Parliament. We hope that there will be some better solution that will affect our people less and affect our budget better. Unfortunately, we will not be able to make any wiser choice, but we will also support this proposal in the Civil Gazette. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u11	We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Richard Braniselj, is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Dear Mr. President! I'd ask the government what country we're going to live in in the next few years. If I read the articles and statements of Prime Minister Janez Janša: "You don't go on vacation, you leave the theater, and you don't go for a beer." Yesterday the minister here said, "A magazine is not a necessity for life." Or will we live in earthlings without needing any cultural, sports, intellectual services? Is that the purpose of this government? Taxation of sports halls, renting sports halls — which country gives a tax on children taking part in sports activities this afternoon, and parents will have to pay for it in particular? Are we really such a poor country? Yesterday, I was at the summit of economists. Mr President, your performance has offended me very much. You have not, in a single word, praised the work of this House or protected our reputation. You said, "We're dealing with signatures." Who? I, Mirko Brulc, don't do signatures. I don't count signatures. We're blocking all activity in this country with referendums. Yeah, that's justice! This is our opportunity to debate here hours and hours. It's parliamentary. In front of all the directors we carried a portion of how – not just the opposition, probably also the position, you block too. It was not specifically mentioned who and what, but we were burned that we were unnecessary — and we hear from the government many times that this government does not need the National Assembly, for they can lead all things into the fact that we will truly live in earthlings. I cannot support this law, this bill, even in my first reading. Social Democrats know exactly that VAT must be raised, but that certain matters must be exempt from tax or even reduced tax. The tax can be reduced to the most urgent food items, to hygiene in that sense – it was discussed here yesterday about garbage and the like. Okay, but we're also taxing diapers for kids, we're taxing everything. We can get some things to 6% and some things to 20 and more, and we need to talk about that. Let's tax luxury, let's tax really what we don't need, which is not a life thing, not say it's not a newspaper, it's not a TV, you can't go to a theater, you can't go to a sports event, you can't go for five, six days on vacation. I mentioned already – see how many Hungarians were on the Adriatic Sea this year in Slovenia. Nothing, because they were so well squeezed by the sale of banks, by the sale of all the economy and so on, and now they are only slaves to themselves and to many other citizens of this European Union. Come on, please, Government, let's be smart and tax what can be taxed — and lower taxes on what is vital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Mr. Richard Braniselj, then Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you, President. My excellent colleague Starman hasn't given me much time, so I'll get involved in the debate later if you leave me some time. I'd like to say this: As a liberal, I have a lot [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the law, not only by this law – by any law which imposes taxes on new ones, which raises taxes, and [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Good. The Liberals have run out of time at this point in the agenda, but they will come to their senses. Mrs Marija Plevčak, there has been a misunderstanding, I apologize for not having been reported to the debate. Excuse me! Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor and Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers and colleagues, everyone's welcome! In the parliamentary group, we have discussed a lot about this problem, a selective raise in VAT, and we are always extremely skeptical about it. Personally, too. For this reason, I firmly believe that, at the moment that I support, on the other hand, that the budget and documents relating to the budget need to be regulated that the Treasury is as it is, and that adequate money or resources should also be found on the revenue side. However, I am also convinced that in this state, when we are in Slovenia, the selective treatment of individual categories of debtors is absolutely inappropriate. Before the elections, we have put in a programme to oppose any VAT increase – I admit that we have this written – but the fact is that this programme was held last year before the elections and that today the situation in the country is fundamentally different. That is why I am personally convinced – and then I am reading the opinions of people who are better acquainted with macroeconomics and the state budget than I am – that at this point it is likely that the raising of the general level, I do not know, by 1%, will be taken into account. In this way we would certainly gain more than in this selective way, where we literally irritate certain categories of taxpayers to pay VAT. Maybe someone will say hairdressing services, that I probably don't need enough of them myself – that's true, but many need it. It's not just hairdressing, it's about others; it's about utility services that we all pay, including those with the lowest incomes and so on. The general increase in VAT by 1%, at least these general rates – I do not know whether only the general rate can be raised or whether it can be selectively raised only in general but not in the lower – would be my best measure. I am also sure – I hope that no one in the media will write that I am sitting in two chairs. This has been repeated for all of us, because we supported the pension reform. We've been in the media all the time to sit in two chairs, but now it turns out how right it was to represent the right positions, and even now I hope they won't tell me that I'm sitting in two chairs. Therefore, I clearly support, I object to the fact that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the word, then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The bill does not give any opportunity to amend and supplement it; it can only be rejected. It's probably kind of hard for the minister, he's not here with us today — he's probably embarrassed, and if he's embarrassed, that's fine. The proposal follows only a number of government actions that exploit the economic crisis to decommission the democratic and social state. This increase in VAT on products and services that are recognised and of particular importance for cultural and social development only follows all the actions that we have been used to here, in this National Assembly, by the adoption of the ZUJF and by the oppression of human rights. In various laws you have trampled on the rights of many people in our country and created a totalitarian system and created the climate that we are all corrupt cheaters and liars, and so secretly, but deliberately, you send people a message that your leader is only the same. Is this the new paradigm, Your Honor? Interestingly, you like to refer to Europe, but look, a month ago, the European Commission launched a public consultation on the proposal for a reduced VAT rate and their orientation is to wait for it to be done without rush, to analyse it and then to take an appropriate action. How do you deal with economic recovery and the rise in economic growth? Within three months you were not able to prepare contracts to draw up loans for the construction of TES 6, but when we know that construction cannot be stopped, it can only be encouraged. By encouraging and putting the matter on HSE, you will bring the HSE to your knees and give the opportunity to buy energy. The government is preparing laws that are confirmed by the Coalition's troops of honourable Members and will allow the few and the constituencies to legally enrich themselves with this policy in order to buy what is left for a little money. As a result, you are creating a nation of poor people. On Monday's statement, the Ombudsman said: "The battle of poverty in our country is lost." In two years we can't even get data on how many children in primary school can't have lunch, can't have lunch, and parents can't pay for it. We can't get data on how many pensioners can no longer pay at home for the elderly and move out. Instead of taking into account our proposal to raise VAT in general – I am very pleased that some of you have already realized that this would be good – and that we could start a debate and carry out analyses of the possible rise in this rate and of the advantages and disadvantages of the recovery to the economy and also of the discussion of the possibility of lowering the rate that we are also advocating, for sports facilities, newspapers, magazines and other periodic publications, and you are lifting and saying that you will solve this crisis by raising the VAT by 11.5% points, that is more than 100% for newspapers, magazines and other periodical publications, cleaning up windows, using sports facilities, services and so on. Even now, we know that the purchase of newspapers and magazines is declining and that the only way to do this is to make sure that people do not buy, that they will buy less, or that individual media will fail. You may also be able to come with freebies and give people information that you know is right. At the same time, you are reducing the RTV contribution in the light of how you will give people some money and they will spend 1 euro a month. But you've created your own television, and you're going to give back information, or they're going to give you information that you know is right again. Let's not talk about hairdressers and these services that will put people in a situation where the gray economy is booming. VAT raise on the use of sports facilities – this is the top of the iceberg! My fellow Member, the president of the Education Committee, was so vehemently, so full of words and so proud of our athletes. At the same time, we will reduce and almost eliminate the possibility that those children who are most in need of movements that parents cannot pay for can be involved in sports. Because the money that clubs get by selling cards is used to make selections work. I've been working on this for 33 years, and I know where that money goes. Ten thousand volunteers are prepared not only to work for free but also to invest in it. With this you will take away their hope and what you think you will do good — no, just break it down! My colleague said that we are not fortunate because we have to adopt such laws that make life worse. I think that citizens and citizens of this country are not fortunate because they have such a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Mag. Majda Potrat, then mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Social Democrats, in particular Social Democrats, advocate the economic autonomy of females, so the Minister's statement that the husband will decide whether to buy a woman a newspaper or a bouquet, I consider it a cruel form of sexism, in the event of a bad joke and a way of speaking that public officials cannot afford. That's for the introduction. What's worse is he's giving wrong information. We advocate media plurality and the realization of the right to information. How one of us gets information is an individual’s business, and therefore those who are advocates of electronic information cannot agree only to it if the newspapers can be more expensive. The 23 countries of the European Union have the right to a reduced VAT rate, only 4 countries have a higher VAT rate. We can compare ourselves with Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania and we are the fourth to have such VAT as is proposed here. For Social Democrats, such a VAT rate is absolutely unacceptable. It is true, however, that this government is doing a great deal with the print media, as it has already done in its first term. Electronic media is increasingly controlling or poor, and the question is to such information we will be able to access in the future. I am not talking about reading literacy, which I think we all care about in principle, – what does that mean if we take away one of the sources of information. I'd only stop at two more things that are unacceptable to me. It is difficult for many people to get away from a pension or other means if food is also increased for pets due to VAT hikes. The third thing I would like to point out is a raise in VAT for the use of sports halls or facilities. On the one hand, parents have to invest a lot in their children if they want to become top athletes – but it is not just a top sport, it is a healthy life. We are declaring everywhere how the movement and healthy lifestyles associated with recreation are essential. It is not only about how the young generation will have more access, but also about adults who must ultimately take care of healthy life. For me, such a bill is absolutely unacceptable and I do not intend to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Mr. Roman Jakič, then Mrs. Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I will not talk about general work, but I am pleased that the representatives of the SLS think as we thought and advocate a general increase of 20% to 21%. While we are now saying that we would need 22% and that 8.5% of VAT on services and goods is not raised, I could even lower myself, but I will not talk about it. I'll talk about sports. Why? Because I have been the director of one public institution, the largest in the field of sport in Slovenia for five years, and also because someone will replace me today as President of the International Association of Sports Infrastructure Managers – this is happening in Turin. I'd like to point out two things. The first is to forget the content of Article 132 of the VAT Directive of the Council of the European Union of 2006, which provides that Member States must exempt from VAT certain activities carried out in the public interest and include, inter alia, certain services which are closely linked to sport or physical education by non-profit organisations for people participating in sport and physical education. I have also obtained a letter from the European Commission, their Directorate, confirming my thinking that Europe's commitment is not to interfere with sport. There is much talk about the cost of using sports facilities. These are determined by the municipalities and by a colleague who has ever been to the municipalities, you know that the price for the use of sports facilities is determined by the municipal councils. At this price, the value added tax, which today amounts to 8.5, is charged and you want to raise it by 11.5%. Companies and other users of sports facilities do not generally have 100% taxable traffic and have no right to deduct, but there is no misunderstanding; all municipalities and all operators of sports public infrastructure make a difference between commercial work and sports work for companies and clubs. I will tell you on my own case as Director of the Institute of Sport Ljubljana; the price for the use of the Tivoli Hall is now EUR 1000 500 for our hockey players for the same period – when I was a thousand euros – and for the Motorhead concert is EUR 15,000. For the Centipedes, if you want, the use for the Union of Olympia basketball club is between €5,000 and €10,000, depending on if you take all four floors, and for one Vienna orchestra concert, which will be in December, it will be €30,000. So there won't be a misunderstanding. We know what we're talking about, and when we lift up, we make trouble for society and clubs. At the moment, I am not really interested in making the conditions of operation of sports and leisure infrastructure managers worse, but I am very concerned that the accessibility of the programme and the use of sports facilities and services for pre-school education, for kindergartens, programme providers, for school sports education, for primary schools, secondary schools, universities, students and student organisations, for health prevention and rehabilitation – you know here that I am very sensitive, given that these are disability organisations and humanitarian societies – recreational sport, is said to be individuals, sports exercise, etc. Therefore, I will not support this first reading or the first reading, because it seems to me that we do not want to have higher prices for cards, fewer viewers, less money in club registers, fewer sports programs for children, fewer children in programs and activities, more sick, more delinquents, more problems, more work for police, prosecutors and judges, perhaps even more smiles on Gorenakov's face. That's not what I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u23	Mrs. Patricia Schulin, then Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! In Slovenia, the Value Added Tax Act was introduced on 1 July 1999. We started with a lower rate of 8% and an average or general rate of 19%. Something fast followed, already two and a half years later, on 1 January 2002, a lower rate for all services and other matters at a lower rate rose by half, to 8.5%, including food, medicines, medical equipment, entrance to exhibitions and theatres, including newspapers and magazines, including public hygiene services, hairdressing services and so on. In 2002, the overall rate rose from 19% to 20%. This also reflected in Slovenia's impact on prices, on the competitiveness of companies and on exports in our country. Today we are faced with a new proposal that is not as restrictive as it was then. It is true that it is proposed to raise from 8.5 to 20%, but only for certain categories. I would also like to point out that 8.5% of the VAT rate remains for most of these vital life matters; for food, for water supply, for medicines, for medical equipment, for library rental, including for exhibitions, theatres, museums, for animals for questions, seeds, orchards, including for renting adjustment capacity, for repairs of bicycles, shoes and for domestic protection. Thus, it is obvious that there is an unwarranted interference with the social categories of services. But if I focus on hairdressing, I would like to compare this activity with numbers. From experience, I can tell you that in my 15-year-old field work, when we've been taxing these kind of people, there's no way a percentage of them have failed. To illustrate this with figures; the average hairdresser service costs 40 euros and if I compare this increase from 8.5% to 20%, this means a difference in the fee for hairdresser for about 3 euros. The hairdresser will have to take 3 euros more to the state budget for the average hairdresser service, or if I do very harshly, 3 euros more will cost the consumer a hairdresser service. However, if a hairdresser does not issue an account daily for only one hairdresser’s average service and thus conceals income and tax, then within one month, if he has an average of 20 working days, he will cover EUR 800 a month — only if he does not issue an account for one average service a day! Few people in Slovenia have 800 euros in salaries, which they have to work for 20 days, 8 hours a day. This can then be applied comparatively to florists. It is true, however, that the grey economy is very strongly present in these two segments, and it is not at all critical of the people who are implementing this grey economy, but of the still too few inspection bodies, which are too small for us in comparison with the other Member States of the European Union. I hope that in the summer of 2013, when the tax administration and the customs administration come together, this area will also be regulated in these segments. In these substantive debates, which are good in one part, there is also a call for an increase of 1% in the overall rate, but then it really means that we will reach out to just all of the goods that are really vital to life; including in food, including medicines, water, even for theatres, for culture and so on. The current proposal to raise the rate to 20% is, in my opinion, those categories that are not so vital, except perhaps, I agree, for public hygiene services, which at current prices means approximately the euro, the euro and half more per household. This would be my contribution to this debate, but I agree that further consideration of this law will take account of the substantive debates and concerns of the coalition and opposition members of today's debate and will take a step towards upgrading this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Mr. Jerko Chehovin. Then Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In general, there is a paradigm in the world that left governments raise taxes and right governments lower taxes. With us, because there is nothing like it anywhere else in the world, it is the opposite: the right-wing government raises taxes — not just that, some others — that is, the left-wing Members oppose and we propose something else to them. If you remember in the spring when we were dealing with these matters, I said that you don't have to be a false prophet, that this coalition will come sooner or later with a proposal to increase taxes. That's what happened. Unfortunately, there has been some unloving proposal that can only be made by a man - made man. Such taxes cannot be proposed by someone who is for more children to go to sports halls, more to pools, more to the playgrounds. This cannot be understood by those who have a respectful relationship with, for example, a partner or a deceased person at burial sites when carrying flowers twice a week. This cannot be done by those who love their domestic animals — by the way, I have already told my cat that he will now eat from the butcher shop so that he will no longer receive this food. The hairdresser's already asking me home and says, "Well, you haven't been, but now you can come to my house." I do not understand this proposal except in the sense that the coalition does not want to deal with the proposal we made, because it was the proposal of an opposition – to raise the general tax rate. If we raised it then, in February, there would be a lot different on the revenue side of the budget. But no, because this was the opposition's proposal, some said it wasn't that it was unfair. By the way, the general rate of tax on importers would not have any effect at all, but even the opposite, as they would have been pleased to calculate the higher entry tax in their accounts. If we have an export economy, that would mean more stimulation. And the other thing is, I'm still listening to things that aren't real today. The general rate does not apply to water, does not apply to food, does not apply to other matters, but applies to reduced rates, including tourism services and so on. I see no reason for these levels — except for the one who does not want to read newspapers and who wants the nation to be more and more stupid to believe in what we offer. I must therefore say that I strongly oppose this proposal and cannot raise my hand in this proposal in any way. However, I hope, in the end, that some who are in the spring debate will say that they will resign as Members if VAT rises will keep their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chehovin, for having already had this conversation with your cat, I still have this difficult conversation with our two cats. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, then Mr Bevk only.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Such statements are sometimes very interesting, and we are all a little refreshed in this hall. But, you know, raising VAT is a hell of a thing and trying all our citizens and citizens, and it's not the most popular form of lifting for any government. Regardless of which government would raise VAT, it is likely that both coalition and opposition Members would have their concerns. I think it's so right. I am personally aware, and our Group of Members is aware that the budget needs to be balanced. It is often heard in the hall that it is necessary to search every corner so that we can balance the matter. But when raising this reduced tax rate, I also personally express my thoughts, and I am not most impressed with this proposal – for newspapers, for sports facilities and so on. Mr Jakič earlier discussed in detail who benefits all sports facilities and who will now have to pay 0.5% more. I do not want any part of this and support these matters. Larger, an open question are hairdressing services and flowering services. Speaking of hairdressing services, there are very few businesses, independent entrepreneurs who are even taxpayers. In Slovenia, I think the two companies that have this are one in Ljubljana and one in Maribor, and the others will forgive me if I let them go. Then there was a lot of talk about cats — I have three cats at home myself, and I don’t know when I’ll talk to them if I keep joking. The circumstances are a crisis, but the reduced VAT rate is prescribed with a strict purpose to make it easier for people, citizens and citizens to provide these needs for all structures and especially for the socially weaker ones. This stage, which has been prescribed in the past, has been prescribed for purely concrete reasons, and I think that we all understand it in some way in this Chamber, so it is right to discuss it in this sense. I don't want to specifically explain every article, every service – just before I counted a few. If there were more, we would talk more about them, and we would have a proposal for almost everyone not to support them or not to raise them. But it's true that we have to do something. That is why in our parliamentary group as well as in DeSUS, we considered finding these 40 or 50 million in some other form of tax withdrawal. At first we talked about raising the crisis tax, and the second form was supposed to be to linearly increase VAT, for example, I am speaking clearly, lazily, 0.5%. I don’t know what that would mean in the calculation — that’s what those involved will say. A greater problem would be the rise of the crisis tax, as we do not have logistical support. In the case of a linear increase in the general tax rate, we already have this logistical support and we could do it very quickly. My own opinion is that this would mean that more taxes would be paid by those who are richer or have more income, as those who are currently spending more than those who have less at this time of crisis. Because those who have less need to judge for every item of life whether or not they buy it. Sadly, however, the population is the oldest and the younger ones who do not have a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u29	Mr. Just Bevk, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I don't have cats at home, and raising hairdressing services won't really hurt me, but I'm still opposed to raising VAT. The proposed amendment to this Act is aimed at eliminating the reduced VAT rate for certain types of products and services, which means that it will undermine these products and services by 11 %. Some industries will not be able to raise prices and will fail. With this proposal, the Government also abolishes the lower VAT rates imposed by the previous Government on window cleaning and cleaning of private households, hairdressing services and the supply of cut flowers as of 1 January 2010. An analysis was carried out by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and it assessed that the decision at the time was correct. In addition to these services, we raise VAT on sports facilities, and especially in the Social Democracy we oppose raising VAT for newspapers and magazines. I picked a quote from the archives that I'm going to read. On 30 June 2010, in Odessa, a prominent opposition Member, who today said to the minister in this government: "Look, in times of economic crisis, the increase in taxes is an unwise move, which is virtually no one does, because it further reduces the competitiveness of the economy, further increases the cost to the economy, increases the cost to people and lower wages, in fact the longer the number of unemployed, with the last reduction in the coordination of pensions, the social situation in Slovenia is getting worse if the cost of living rises at the same time." Such is the former opposition MP, and today the minister in the Yangtese government. They're talking to one another and they're working. Yesterday I was at the top of the Slovenian economy, where the call for a successful economy for Slovenia was made, but there was no talk of a selective VAT increase. At the top of the Slovenian economy, we also missed the finance minister. What did they point out? They are highlighted; the rule of law, a better business environment, a new development momentum and strong export support. There was no talk of a selective raise in VAT, so I will not support this law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Mag. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a question about the meaning of this reform, which we call tax reform. Let's move on to the numbers. We are already at the very top of the European Union after tax burdens, in particular, last year's share of fiscal burdens was 37.6% of the gross social product in the structure. We also have a high share of indirect taxes, such as excise duties and VAT, which the country collects for 4.3% of GDP, which the country collects for 4.3% of GDP, which ranks us third among EU countries in the region. We probably want to get to the top of the elevator. It's good to be first, only in the wrong areas. The social contributions are collected by the country by as much as 15.3% of the gross social product, i.e. 4.3% more than the average of the European Union. Our contributors already pay 7.8% of gross social product, which is once more than the EU average, and the EU average is 3.3%. Now I wonder what we are — a tax oasis, a tax haven, or a tax hell? Obviously we want to be a tax hell, we want to create a tax hell for our citizens. I think that this is also inappropriate in the fact that we were at the top of the economy yesterday and they listened to us tell us that we should understand that when the economy is doing well, we are all doing well. The economy is going bad, and we are trying to tax financial transactions, raise VAT, make the economy worse and make it worse for the population. I wonder where the big words are about our inventiveness and innovation. Everyone knows that — if you have the power, you raise the tax, and you get the income in the budget. The other ways are a little harder – to encourage the economy to work more jobs, to keep our citizens, our young people who are capable of knowledge, to stay in Slovenia and to pay taxes here, without going abroad. I live 15 kilometers from the Austrian border, believe it or not, almost every day someone comes to tell me when I'm in those places or they're telling me in one way or another that he's moved to Austria or registered a company or moved a seat there. I'm sure that's not a good way. Let's find different ways, otherwise we'll destroy the country in that part where it still works. I think there are much more innovative ways. The first is that wages should be in the public sector up to a maximum of 1 : 5. How do we explain the fact that the Minister of Health has a salary of three times less than the director of a health home? How? If we didn't know how to make order, we don't know. There's a lot of cases like this. And we take those who have 600 euros of net wages, 700, 800 who barely live linearly, because we don't know, we don't hope, we can't or we can't fit into some lobby, taken by those who have unjustifiably, in times of crisis, wages in the public sector a few times higher than our ministers, who, by the way, have been paid shamefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Mrs. Tamara Vont. Then it's mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I will focus mainly on raising VAT for printed media. I think that this should take into account the background of the whole thing or what the print media in Slovenia has had to survive in recent years to say so. Some of the issues are related to general developments around the world, and some are also specific to Slovenians. This is a digitalisation, it is a major technological change that the print media is also trying to solve individually more or less successfully. Globally, there is a trend of decline in the monitoring of printed media and, on the other hand, these media, to say in quotations, are also spreading on the Internet with their content. It is a classic medium that fights for survival and almost everywhere in Europe, the country not only helps them, but leaves them alone. Something like that, I think it's justified that we want it too. If the country is no longer helping the press, please do not destroy them, or at least leave them alone, to fight for survival, but not to punish them with such a high VAT. One thing is technological change, the other is crisis, and the third thing that is specific to Slovenian space is ownership problems or media ownership. The media have become tokens in the tycoon accounts and in the tycoon business, and this is indeed a pure specification of the Slovenian space. With these three problems today, print media in Slovenia are struggling, and you can think that it is not easy for them, and that this action that you have imagined the government is the last nail in the coffin. The other thing I'd like to say is that I don't know if you're aware that this is going to cause the most harm to young people, working part-time. In fact, a manna of money can be replaced in two ways: by increased subscription or by forgiveness or by reducing the number of workers, journalists. What does it mean to increase your subscription? Even if it is a very small increase, you can think of what that would mean in this trend. But who will be the one in line for forgiveness, and you will probably understand. It will be the youngest people, the youngest journalists who are at the beginning of their professional careers. What will happen to us is that in addition to the deprofessionalization of the journalistic profession in our country, on the other hand, one grey fox, one empty space of a generation, which should take up editorial positions in about 10 years or more. I'm talking without any valuable judgment about how someone writes about them. Actually, it doesn't have any role to play right now. It's only because of what happens next. There have been no vacancies in the media for many years. There's been no employment for many years, and not a regular one at all. I can assure you that. He hires himself on a part-time basis, and then he somehow fills himself with the fees of this hole — but when you don’t need them, you put them on the road. We have a large segment of young people living in the so-called social illegal totally unprotected. Completely unprotected, without all rights – no one usually talks about these. Many of these people, many of these young people are employed or working on online media, where we have another shadow. If I were you, I'd be dealing with the problem of how to regulate the labour legislation in this area, because the grey fox is not regulated, and I say these are young, unprotected people without everything. To be an independent journalist, forget it. The statuses are coming back because there's simply no calculation and we've got another gray fox. In short, I don't know if even when I'm listening to coalition members, I see that somehow, if I count a little – but you know, we don't know how to count, but still – much opposition to this proposal. [[...]] It seems to me that now that we're talking here, we're actually kind of sort of sort of doing the field, and some new proposals are already being prepared in the background. Now you're just a little bit of a guy, if there were some things you could go through. VAT for printed media is the last punch you can strike. You can set it up from two impulses, whether it's a pure political blow or it's a complete ignorance, there's no other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Mag. Dean Jedhan, after him mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If we knew the situation in Slovenian animal shelters, we would find that your jokes about two kittens, one hamster and three snakes are very inappropriate at this time in Slovenia. Even if the state can't, it doesn't know, and it doesn't have the opportunity to provide resources to do with the animals left behind because the owners can't maintain them anymore, these jokes are very inappropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear from today's debate that the majority of the Members and Members of Parliament sitting here know that the law that the Finance Minister has sent to the National Assembly with the blessing of the Government is one big nonsense. Information has also come to me that you are preparing in the back – when this failed test, which has in fact only upset the general and political public of Slovenia, has failed – some other proposals. But when you're preparing proposals, I would suggest that I think positively, say, about two directions. The first is in the field of food for people, in the field of printed media and in the Slovenian book. Consider reducing the already reduced rate to 6%, because food has become a social moment in this country at the moment; media freedom, including financial freedom, is becoming the basis for ensuring democracy in this country; the book is the basis of language, and the language is also the basis of our history and is also necessary for our future. In this area, let us consider reducing. In general, it is true that at this point the time has come to consider and make the appropriate decision to adopt the so-called crisis tax. The crisis tax means that for a certain period an increase in the general rate of value added tax is allowed. Whether this means 2 or 3 % of the absolute point should be recalculated, thus allowing the country to have a difficult time under your rule in particular – remember that the present time is significantly more difficult than it was a year ago, because you are implementing measures that have exactly the same effects as you predicted – it is with some smart policy that we are going through and that we are returning optimism to that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u37	Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, then Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you, President, for your word. We have before us the adoption of budgets for 2013 and 2014. The government is very aware of that. We all know that most of the revenue in the state budget is tax and non-tax revenue, especially tax revenue. And the largest share of tax revenue is due to income, excise duty and, above all, VAT. In the field of VAT, something must be changed as the effects can be immediate, or they can take effect one year ago. If we now define this indirect tax a little bit. The VAT we have in Slovenia is selective, we have a general level and a lower tax rate. As a result of this lower tax rate, we are causing some economic operators to have a different market situation. It's a so-called indirect subsidy. From this point of view, I think, for example, the single tax rate is even more equitable, but we do not have it. We have decided on an indirect subsidy and it is therefore necessary to examine the various aspects. I'd start in hairdressers, for example. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Section of Hairdressers, presented its view of the proposal. I would say that personal services are not only hairdressing services but also other services, cosmetics, massages, manicure services, pedicures, face care and so on. From this point of view, we see that we have an uneven approach with regard to taxation of these personal services. In 2010, the lower rate was taken into account or reduced to 20% for hairdressing and household cleaning services only. How, then, can we defend the unity of economic operators from this point of view? We can't. According to the Hairdresser Section, for example, 2 000 800 hairdressers are registered in Slovenia. More than 70% are not registered in the value added tax system. This means that they belong to small taxpayers, and this VAT increase will not hurt them at all, not at all, as regards the view that we are raising the VAT threshold to EUR 50,000. This aspect is also very important with regard to our decision or the debate. As far as public services are concerned, I would also like to highlight a very important aspect. Public services for which this amendment would raise the tax to 20% would only be waste management, waste management and environmental cleaning and other public hygiene services. With us, for example, these services are provided by public companies. Public companies are capital companies and generate profits, so they are profitable activities. They do not have only these two activities registered, they have many other activities, they have their market share to survive on the market. For example, drinking water supply — tax will not rise to 20% here. Then they have registered funeral and burial activities — and this remains at a lower level. They have registered, for example, maintenance of public roads and public lighting. I would like to point out a very important issue where there is once again an inequality between these companies, public companies as capital companies and private companies. For example, where sweeping, parking, and waste management services continue to operate espies, the application of a reduction in the tax rate for this espionage is not allowed, and the application of a lower rate is permitted for public companies, municipalities, which are also profitable activities. From this point of view, we must also look at this, and this is also a lack of unity between our economic operators, capital and personal companies. Are we thus giving the economy the opportunity to develop as best as possible? Not at all. This is now the second argument that a single tax rate would be fairer. As far as raising VAT on partial selective activities is concerned, one logic must be followed that we must adopt a budget, which is indeed a short-term measure and could be seen as a crisis tax. I am pleased, however, that we have a first hearing and that we are generally discussing, and I note that in this debate we also advocate partial selective activities in Slovenia, one animal, one hairdresser and so on. Let us try to find one common solution and be constructive in the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Mrs Renata Brunskole, then Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! Yesterday was really interesting at the top of the Slovenian economy. The opposition is very serious, although smaller in percentage and percentage, but significantly larger than the coalition, so obviously we care about the Slovenian economy and the promotion of entrepreneurship, the promotion of a small economy – this was highlighted yesterday. Sadly, however, some such words were expressed by coalition colleagues, government leaders, including the leadership of the National Assembly, which made me feel unwell. Insults, incorrect words, not words that would lead the economists to development. The economists told me they felt the same way. Therefore, in the future, I would like discussions on how to do it here, here, to discuss what the opposition is doing wrong, not burdening the economy. Economists expected serious debates, content, specific answers, but not that someone would say, "Cash, economists, we expected you to warn the opposition." That belongs here. That's it. I cannot support this bill. VAT raise by more than 100 %. We will affect those who are self-employed, craftsmen, independent entrepreneurs – they spoke about this at the top yesterday – small economy, hairdressers, florists, cleaners, independent journalists, all those who are self-employed. This is even more problematic in small areas, small places where these people fight hard for every cent of the euro, where they fight hard for every customer to keep it, because these people are sometimes less accessible to certain services precisely because of the crisis, precisely because of the small income they have or possible unemployment. Also printed media – access to information from all of us people, is our right, and what can happen? It may even happen that some of the media issued by companies across areas will come to a crossroads or be able to issue them. The media is certainly also a medium issued by a particular regional area. For example, for Dolenjska, White Krajina, Kočevsko-fishbinski, Posavje is the Dolenjska List. Maybe they'll wonder if they can still betray him. Sports, sports facilities, renting sports facilities – sports companies that are hard to raise money will think if they can still pay rent. We want to promote sport, we want to promote recreation. It's the wrong world in this direction! Not long ago, my colleagues explained to me that in one of the city’s municipalities, one of the world’s coalition groups — this coalition, here in the National Assembly — was alerted to an increase in water prices of 46 cents, when it was absurd that this was unacceptable because water was indeed the source of life. But look what we're doing now. But we're going to raise the price for the hairdressers for 3 euros, and they're going to be forced to do so by raising the VAT. Mrs Avberšek from the Chamber of Commerce warned that, as a result, with a selective VAT increase, we will be able to lead to even greater unemployment, according to their calculations. According to their estimates, 5,000 jobs will be abolished. I can't support this marriage. I propose to the coalition, I propose to the Government a reflection and that this law is not adopted in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u41	The SDS is running out of time at this point, so I will now give the floor to Mrs Alenka Bikar and then the mag. Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I would like to touch on the bill's proposal, in particular the work that talks about VAT increases for sports facilities. It seems important to me, as well as to my other colleagues from Positive Slovenia, that as a former top-notch athlete I should point out that such government measures do not seem to us well. Moreover, we find them harmful to our children, to our future, as we like to call them, and to sport at all. Once at the beginning of my term, I have already said that it seems to me that this government treats its people as if it does not like them, with all the measures we take or take, and you will take them. We are so eager to boast and say that we are a sports nation – we have top athletes with excellent results. Our politicians, ministers, so much like to paint with them, embrace them, are full of promises when they return to their homeland with winning medals. If I continue with the ultimate sport. Unfortunately, the economic crisis is also reflected in the poorer status of societies. The lower are the funds that municipalities and local communities devote to sports recreation and top sports. Many athletes lost their sponsors, their longtime sponsors. Also due to non-stimulating legislation, the extent of funding invested by Slovenian companies in sport is slowly, but is steadily decreasing. And now, another blow to sports. VAT raise from 8,5 % to 20 %. What does that mean? The rent of sports facilities will increase and your parents will be hurt again because they pay for all of this. The number of children and young people attending sports activities will be reduced. These measures are not only harmful to high-quality sports and recreation and to children and youth, they will also affect children in kindergartens, disabled people, the elderly, all those using the rehabilitation programme, some medical services, the vocational training of the police, the military, mountain rescuers. Everyone will pay you more to use sports halls, swimming pools, athletic trails. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. According to the World Health Organisation, Slovenia has one of the fastest growing trends in weight gain. Children and adolescents already face obesity and motion sickness. My colleague, Mr Bosnic, has recently addressed or asked a question from two ministers, both for health care and for sport, what do you think you should do in this regard? That's the answer. Are we going this way? Instead of taxing harmful food, perhaps a sweet drink that we know has a proven effect on obesity and type 2 diabetes, increased cholesterol, blood pressure. If you allow me to read part of how these things were handled in France: "The French government intends to increase the budget revenue with a new tax and turn people away from palm oil, i.e...." – very much in Nutela, because you all love it – "... contains saturated fatty acids that cause cardiovascular diseases." Let us consider and consider once again what, if any, these measures bring us, and how much we can lose. There's something else I'd like to add. The Executive Committee of OKS supported the proposal of the Association to maintain the VAT rate for the use of sports facilities. In Positive Slovenia, we are even thinking about proposing instead of raising this tax to even lower it to 5%. In thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u43	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, then mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. To what my colleague was saying in front of me, maybe that's all she'd be adding. Days ago, on the Health Committee, we listened to the Secretary of State or the Minister of State, as the Government sought to strengthen and encourage the idea of a healthy way of life among people. Now we hear that the government's policy is diametrically opposite when it comes to practice. The government literally pushes kids into the street. Colleagues and colleagues, this is a long-term disaster — to say the least! I will also go to the second topic covered by this proposal for a VAT increase law. Days ago, more precisely October 22nd, a number of experts in the field of pet animals — including representatives of the Chamber of Commerce — gathered together, and all in one voice find that raising VAT for small animals is a long-term breakdown for the country from several perspectives. Please allow the affected, it is estimated by all participants in this council, a million 300,000 inhabitants of Slovenia. Costs are estimated to be higher or higher than revenues. The VAT raise would not only result in higher inflation and more grey economies, but would also increase foreign purchasing, reduce the competitiveness of the small economy and the country, our country, as a result, provide less income at the end of the day than would be the total additional costs and losses due to fewer jobs. Economists point to this. I'm going to the second, more humane, social-sensitive side of this negative consequence. The Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia announced on October this year's World Animal Day that we have always been together and have been learning – how can we improve this co-existence? This is an ongoing procedure that we must pass on to our children as well. Even our children! The Minister's statement, which he made at the time of this presentation, said not to say a successful project to solve the crisis in our country – the Minister said, I hope, cynically: "The first group is animal food. Here, unfortunately, I have four pets, but it's hard to say that it's an emergency life supply for people." A really encouraging signal and a message to the Slovenian public about the value of these sensitive beings in our country. I say it is still important that, in times of crisis, when you want or don't want to, you put pressure on not only people, including animals, we warn and talk about humanity. The president's smiling. I hope it's not because I'm talking about humane treatment of animals. Thank you, President, for this would be the wrong signal from you who are, I believe, the important moral authority of the National Assembly. Humane treatment of animals of all kinds, because they're just like us humans, just like these sensitive beings. Others in this area, NGOs, societies, shelters point out that if this measure were adopted, the pressure would increase and that the number of abandoned animals would increase due to the poverty faced by households with domestic animals today. It is estimated that if I am not mistaken, around 70% of households in Slovenia have at least one domestic animal. On the other hand, I would also get this negative effect, I am talking about the humane salary of this work – I will no longer be, because I am limited in time. To conclude the thought which came to me in e-mail, one of the citizens of our country: "Help man, I am lost, and the environment unknown to speak is not given to me, so I cannot complain or strike. I'm a living creature who suffers and enjoys life. Please, someone speak for me." I will conclude with these words, I believe they are talk enough and for all of us to think about what we can do by pressing the "for" button in this loving country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u45	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Behind her is Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u46	Good-bye, everybody! I have a feeling that this proposal that we are dealing with today is a little bit of a joke, and I think it also shows that the representative of the Government does not, by contrast – now I am going to commend Minister Viszak, who sat with us two days ago and tried, if he hasn't already answered, to answer most of the questions, the perceptions, the concerns and so on. You obviously don't have anything to say here, and I believe you're kidding and you've tried to do it. That your public finances and or, firstly, economic and public financial policies are wrong, show data, show forecasts and show actual data. I am sure that we will again consider the state budget balance this year, where the deficit of the state budget will rise strongly, this is what the data show. That you do not know what you are doing or perhaps write down a little wrong data that is somehow not in line with what is actually happening in our country, the IMF assessments, the European Commissions, which for this year predict a deficit of 4%, 4.4%, – your estimates are 3.5% – and for the following year 3.9%, quite far above 3%, which you highlighted at the top of the economy yesterday as one of your key actions. You've already said good-bye to this, even though you don't say it out loud. VAT is increased by 11,5 % in this segment. You mocked us when we wrote down our program and made it clear to people that without lifting this tax, it would not work. This is what we said at the time – raising the general rate by 1%, you are now raising 11.5%. You've made a collection of what you think would be the case here, but I think this marriage of yours is already doomed to failure today, so you'll have to look for new solutions. But it's something very ironic – you're lowering the RTV subscription, it's a proposal, and in your explanation, you write that because you're going to save the families 1 euro, I think 1.2 euros with this reduction. Ironically, because at the same time you will hit all families with a rise in municipal prices, you will only hit municipal services with about 4 to 5 euros due to VAT. That's why it's ironic. Perhaps it would be wise to change the explanation for reducing the RTV contribution and tell what is going on in that case and what is going on in raising VAT for printed media, because that is the only explanation. You can't give someone one euro on one side and take five euros off the other and explain that this is going together. Just once again, that your actions are wrong, data shows, forecasts, and the economists told you that yesterday. As the economists told you yesterday: get to work, prepare the right measures so that Slovenia can go in the right and better direction!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popot, behind her mag. Matthew Tonin, if he's not in the hall, and Mrs Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to present my view of this law, of raising VAT. My view is that, in my opinion, this law is not suitable for further consideration or that a thorough change is needed if we are to decide to allow it to be further considered. I think so because this law would have modest effects. The calculation of the additional inflow into the state budget under this law is unrealistic. It is unrealistic because this law, on the other hand, will also have negative effects. I would list some of them: reduction of employees and thus reduction of labour flows, additional burden on social transfers. For example, cutting off the press and other printed media means forgiveness in the end, and today there has been a lot of talk. A reduction in the volume of hairdressers work will, in my opinion, result in more people entering the grey economy. Think of what each of us would do if we were in the skin of these people, for example, these hairdressers, and lost our jobs. Of course, these people have to survive, too. Even today, some are using home - style hairdressing services, or gray economy. In the case of the tax on printed media, I would like to draw attention to the taxation of the media in other European countries. For example, Luxembourg has only 3%, France has the lowest tax, 2.1%. Following are Italy, Spain, Malta, Hungary, Cyprus, Greece, the Netherlands and so on. Some countries even have a zero value added tax rate for printed media. I would also like to draw attention to the tax on the use of sports facilities. How important sport is for young people, for all of us, and especially for the older population, there is no need to speak specifically, I think we are all well aware of this. With the tax increase, we will especially affect those with lower incomes. Here too – I think Mrs Alenka Bikar has talked about this and others – I am joining these discussions. More tax on food for small animals. Today, we have heard more statements about how one of us will talk to our cats at home, but this matter needs to be taken a closer look. There are many pensioners with a minimum pension, so they live below the poverty line. These people are usually lonely, and in this loneliness they have only a small animal or pet. And not only do pensioners, but others who live on social transfers share a similar fate. Since they do not have the money, these people will also have to give up on the only society they have, or they will have to cut off from their mouth the boar food they have so that they can feed their little animal. That's where I'd end up. I think it would be more appropriate to change the general VAT rate. Such an approach would be fairer because this increased tax would be distributed to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get ready, Mrs. Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When we talk about value added tax, we cannot avoid the general debate on the budget and on our revenues. I know it's an old phrase that we can spend as much as we can create, but in spite of everything I'm discussing this phrase, which is yet to be true, we can't avoid it. The fact is that we have a problem with the deficit, that if we are to avoid what is happening in Greece today, we must do these tasks ourselves and work in this direction. My colleague Bratuškova will probably agree with me here because she was the Director of the Budget Directorate, so that we can reduce the deficit in at least three ways. One is to reduce our public spending – this is one option. The second option is to raise taxes, and the third option is to create new jobs. These are kind of three options. Of course, we all like this third – creating new jobs – but it does not come from the luft. It is necessary to create conditions for the creation of new jobs. I think we are working towards reforms in this direction, by trying to rehabilitate banks and other things we are doing – remember, we passed a lot of laws in July that tried to relieve administrative burdens. We're trying to create new jobs. When we talk about reducing the deficit, it is only right that we use all three options. So that things are as balanced as possible. How do we reduce consumption? We have done something with the help of the Public Finance Balance Act, which there has been a lot of talk in this House – there are also many objections, but unfortunately, the paths we need to take are not easy, but unfortunately there are no others. If we move on to another option, raise taxes. In the opposition, in some way, you took this opportunity very much; in the coalition, we were very dislikable. We now have before us the proposal to increase value added tax on individual articles and services from below 8.5% to 20%, and I also now thought that the opposition would be most pleased to support this, but it is not. He also has comments, like our government coalition, and I think it is right that we discuss and debate these things at first reading. We also have a comment on the current proposal in New Slovenia and ourselves. If I mention the media, if I mention hairdressers and anything else, these things need to be discussed. It is necessary to examine what kind of thing it means, what income is envisaged and what this tax would mean for the future – whether this country would still generate or not. If we are saying that we are disturbed by this or another provision, we should also offer some alternative options. If Nova Slovenije or I personally object to an increase in the tax from 8.5% to 20%, let's say for the media, if I take a concrete example – what in particular do I propose, on the other hand, to make up for this country's income with other resources? I see three options, mostly. One is the anti-crisis tax, the other is that, as the opposition says, we raise the general VAT rate by what percentage point up, the third option is to raise the percentage of income. These are all the options we can deal with. Finally, I would mention that we should also consider the tax on sweet drinks. You know, sweet drinks are very dangerous. My colleague Joe Costa from America warned me that this would be very clever and I absolutely agree with him that we should at least think about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. She proposed a mag for the replica. Alenka Bratusek. I don't know if I got it right, maybe Mrs. Alenka Bikar, who was talking about these drinks, if I understood it correctly, if I didn't, you would fix me. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u52	Mr. Tonin, it's obviously three of your magic numbers. I agree that there are three steps to reduce the deficit, but I will now list them again. The first is absolute saving and cost reduction, the second is an increase in expenditure and the third is a combination of these two. That would be three correct solutions to your riddle. In any case, the third is absolutely the best, and we've been convincing you for a year, but you can't hear. I am sure that you did not propose raising the general VAT rate just because it is in our programme. I'm sure that's the only reason. The government coalition is hard, but in the end you'll have to, and you'll have to admit that we've been right since the beginning. Once again, the third combination, this is on the one hand saving and on the other hand raising taxes – unfortunately not popular, but in this situation it is necessary – is the only right combination to solve the public financial problem. That you're on the wrong track, I've already told you before, the numbers show. Your deficit will be 4.4% this year. If we add to this what you put in the New Ljubljana Bank, we do not know whether there will be a deficit or not – this is more than 1% of GDP – you will be very close to what you read many times to the previous Pahor bad government as you like to say. It's not just three proposals to raise taxes, it's easy to get more. You listed three, and we have a whole pile of taxes — perhaps even an anti-crisis that is said to be in your drawer instead of what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Take it procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u54	I would just like to remind the Vice-President that Mrs Bratušek has gravely violated the Rules of Procedure and has not been alerted to this. The replica is designed to draw attention to the wrong facts or to where I was misinterpreted, where my discussion would be unusual. She practically repeated my debate and disputed with me. This is a matter of discussion, not a question of replica, and I ask that you pay attention to these things in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much, mag. Matthew Tonin. Something similar happened to me at the meeting the day before yesterday by one of your parliamentary groups, but I did not stop it, so I also left it this time — and also by others so that it would not be in any way a criminal act. You know, it's a very different exchange of views, and I don't want to restrict you here in any way. We're moving on. Mrs. Tina Comel has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[No, no, ……]] Mr Mitja Merchol is the next reported debater. Get ready to move on, Mr. Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Hello, everybody! Since time is really short, I'll be very short. The spirit of state vandalism reminds me of this moment's VAT cut. When I was reading the material these days, I kind of thought, how nice it would be if I came to the candidates of this change of law with a package of newspapers and magazines to give them this thing as the last copies. Instead, perhaps a little poetry or metaphoric. The change in VAT will take us a lot and bring everything to the government. For when the hairdressers, the florists, the journalists, because of this marriage proposal, will no longer work, they will frustrate us, plant us flowers, and inform us of their PR bark if there is a government. Printed media will be dead, and electronic media will send journalists, perhaps journalists, to get bananas to the market and thus prove that we are in a banana republic. And we're supposed to sing the swan song and the funeral mourner for the dead printed media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak, then it is up to the proposer, the Government, if she wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief and clear. These proposals raise VAT on the use of sports facilities, newspapers, especially for public hygiene are not the happiest not to say missed. That's why I can't personally support them. We also have great concerns in the Desus Group. It is particularly problematic to raise public hygiene, for we know that after the new year, there will also be a forecast of encouragement on the part of the congregations, since there have been no such promotions for some time. All of us in the parliamentary group are more for someone else, a better solution than we mentioned earlier, for some kind of crisis tax or a smaller raise in general VAT. In Positive Slovenia they say they are proposing this all the time, but I must say that the ZUJF is more fair in this regard than raising VAT itself. With ZUJF, people with the lowest income were not deprived if you raise general VAT, but they are all, from the smallest to the greatest. Before that, there was also talk about small domestic animals. I also have a Japanese long-haired bunny at home, who I am trying to tell — you know, language barriers — that it will also have to be spattered with her food. I think she's got it. It's interesting to say what I heard on the way out of the National Assembly to the apartment. I heard a conversation between a woman and a man who told him that now, due to a raised VAT, she would not buy fewer flowers, that due to this raising of VAT she would have to go to her hairdresser less often and was concerned that she would not be able to buy all these newspaper magazines, such as Nova, Lea, I don't know, Lady and another woman's name – she listed them and now I don't remember them. You see, the problems with this VAT also arise in families. For the end, neither alone nor in the DeSUS Group have we yet made a final decision on support or non-support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. Because I can see he wants to, I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. There are 12 panellists registered, we have 27 minutes. I'm asking you to split the time. There'll be something in two minutes. 2 minutes 17 will be able to discuss each of the applicants. So, we're starting a debate. First up is Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u60	Have a nice hello to you all. With this proposal for a selective tax hike, the government proves that it has no real vision of how to increase the revenue side of the budget. Not by measures for economic growth, but only by saving and burdening; not by a partial minimum increase in the general rate, as proposed by Positive Slovenia. Above all, this proposal raises high pressure on craftsmen and businesses, which is extremely large for households as well. The government does not or does not care about the impact on the sale of goods and services, the number of jobs lost, the increase in the grey economy and the social consequences. Taking a quick look at activities — food for small animals. It will affect 70% of households, affect small and micro enterprises, direct sales routes online to neighbouring countries, and if we look at Austria and Italy, this VAT is less than 10%. There is an even greater difference in gardening, pots and cut flowers. In all important EU countries – Austria, Italy, the Netherlands, France – VAT is below 10%. This will make the competitiveness of sales even more catastrophic. From this VAT review, it looks like we are comparing ourselves with Hungary, where VAT is above 20%. And if we compare ourselves with how Hungary has achieved the objectives of selling state property and the totalitarian regime, I am afraid. In this proposal, as far as cats are concerned, I have no other impression than that the one who prepared this proposal did have a cat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u61	The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u62	I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I've talked about the media before, but now I'm going to somehow link two issues within this marriage. One topic is printed media, and the other topic is small animals. Why am I going to connect them? In the last catastrophic floods, you probably have two photos left in your memory, and I'm sure when these two photos are republished in some print medium, you'll immediately remember what the event is like. It's two photos that are linked to catastrophic floods. In one photograph, a man saves his dog. It was published in the Journal of Work, on the first page – an extraordinary photograph. That's what I'm saying a little "phobic" to say. The second photograph is similar — a man who saves his cat Johnnie. Now, it may all sound a little funny, but I assure you that these are the two photos that you're going to see when you're about to see them in five years, you're going to remember exactly what this is about, and these two photos are going to make you feel exactly the same as they are now. With all this horror, with all this damage, with all this incomprehensible power and hardship lurking in every man, this I certainly hope to say, another such man who takes care of his even more helpless animal in those last moments. Remember these two photographs, which so beautifully erase the time in which they were created, the event in which they were created, and especially humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tina Comel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. In the pre-election programme, positive Slovenia stated that raising the VAT ceiling by 1% would help solve the financial crisis. Such a move would help to fill the state treasury without any major financial implications for our citizens. However, you have decided to increase the VAT rate by as much as 11.5%. At a time when we have such a recession and falling standard, raising VAT on various products or services as we have heard so far, printed media, sports facilities, food for our pets, hairdressing services can have a strong impact on the well-being of our citizens. Special attention would be given to raising VAT on municipal services. This therefore means raising the prices of municipal services for all households and the economy as a whole. A VAT raise on pet food would result in higher prices, less access to safe food, lower quality, more diseases, higher costs for caregivers, more abandoned animals, higher costs for shelters and municipalities, more purchases in neighbouring countries and less earnings for Slovenian companies. Finally, I would quote: "The VAT liability will be lost. If we raise prices, we won't have traffic, but if we don't raise prices, we won't stay. The government wants to tie a stone to our necks and throw us into the sea." These are the words of koper hairdressers, florists, and gardeners. The very introduction of VAT in the 1990s was a major shock for craftsmen and they had to be on average dismissed from one to two workers. In addition, we are all convinced that a higher tax will promote the grey economy. But it's hard to fight against this kind of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Vice-President, I express great dissatisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not love itself enough to rise from that chair, say, explain and answer the open questions that were raised in the two-day debate or this morning. The government is not ready for us to answer the question of why it is experimenting with this country. Because what you're doing is an experiment! But the problem with the experiment is if it's done in the lab, so it can be repeated several times, and no one's hurt, except for the one who's doing the experiment. And you're doing an experiment on the entire population of this country! And it is not enough for you to rise up and defend yourself or defend your proposal, which you sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not enough for you to answer all the open questions concerning the media concerning small animals that concern sports, which concern hairdressers, last but not least. They concern citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, concern this country and concern this economy! You didn't have enough to get up and take advantage of your 20 minutes, even if you just said that you found out through this debate that you were wrong again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. In my opinion, too, this proposal, which comes from the Government, is very reckless and, in fact, very selectively affects certain areas. However, I wonder whether you have been guided by any criteria for deciding precisely these areas, which we know for sure would help to bring about such a VAT, or help to reduce jobs in these areas, in order to speed up the grey economy and all other negative consequences. I will not touch the media, nor the small animals, nor the hairdressing services, nor the flower shops, nor the sports facilities. I would stop at utilities, where VAT raises are also envisaged. See, very simply, Slovenia is very slow capping for Europe and reaches the standards and criteria set by Europe. You can see that in Slovenia we have very few centres for the management of municipal waste. However, in those regions where we have done so, we can see that the heavy burden of handling municipal waste has fallen on households in these environments. Special technologies require more resources for the management of municipal waste, and this in itself is a great burden for individual households and for citizens and citizens. Now you want to cut down on VAT increases with this proposal. If we want to be a clean and orderly country, if we are to achieve European standards in the field of municipal services, then anything other than raising VAT and thus weakening the situation in this area would certainly be necessary. It is my opinion that things are very reckless and also the lack of coordination in coalition types speaks of the fact that this proposal is indeed doomed to a very bad future. I am sure that you will change it, even if you do not follow the strategy or concept that the opposition has in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I think we have given too little warning today about why we are dealing with this or this issue. If someone didn't notice, the government wallet is empty and there's nothing in it anymore, not only is it empty, it's even a big minus – some won't admit it's anybody's fault. Dearly respected, especially by Positive Slovenia – since you are the loudest – the time has come when even we can no longer be indebted, and this is not in your sense because the principle of indebtedness applies to the end, and then in a very loud sense "what happened was", for which example is your most beautiful capital of Ljubljana. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Wait a minute. I would politely ask Mr Pojbič and everyone else – you were the loudest next to Mr Lisco – to calm down. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor, but I do not agree and strongly reject any debate that would offend anyone in this Chamber. I also do not allow you to offend one another and not an individual parliamentary group among yourselves. I suggest that all the debaters stick to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, thank you for the good minute you took it from me. I didn't hurt anyone, I just said why we're here today before this problem and we're dealing with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u75	We'll give you a minute, just so the ladies can fix it. Too bad you didn't shut down. Please, if you turn it off and you get a minute, because I admit it, absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Your Honor, let me finish. I didn't mean to hurt anyone by being in charge, that's a fact. Why did I even sign up for this debate? I was most disturbed by this increase in VAT on food for domestic animals and hairdressing services – as if this was the biggest problem in Slovenia. Sometimes I feel like I don't know if I'd laugh or cry. To make no mistake, I have no objection to domestic animals, but if a number of Members and Members of Parliament had at least half of these concerns about domestic animals or food for domestic animals were to care for our youngest, the situation would probably have been different. I have a feeling you have some problem Ah, too bad words. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Dearly beloved, we must respect each other and not condemn each other or alter the debate in any way. Your Honor, I'm in charge of the session! You will get a procedural word, Mr Lisec, but I do not agree that we should not talk about our domestic animals or anything like that. It is also about human rights and equality for all people in this Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Lisec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, I have not offended anyone. I believe everyone has a point of view. When I talk about domestic animals, I'm not talking about human rights. I hope we're clear here. Please tell me where I hurt someone. In the meantime, they insulted me with these phone calls, I'll say, my word. Please, Madam Vice President, tell me where I have offended anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u79	Mr Tomaž Lisec, when I said this, I didn't call you personally, and I had in mind everything in the hall that I wouldn't talk to each other in any way without saying it. Let's move on with the word. Procedural has the word mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, I understand that you are trying to provide all Members and Members with circumstances in which they could express their views. It is also Parliament's task to allow each Member and Members of Parliament's time in accordance with their freedom of speech, which is a fundamental human right, to express their views. Now, for the second time, Mr Lisec has dared to interfere with the debates of Members and Members who were, by the way, bound by the content of the proposed law. We didn't make up what the law was about. Each person chooses which subject he or she will deal with in his or her discussion. So I would ask, and this is my procedural proposal that when someone comments, what can and should not be said by any of us to stop him. It was already Mrs Petaver Dobovšek who was discussing what we are discussing and what we should be discussing. Those who have proposed such a law should think about what they are putting into discussion. On the one hand, this government is pleased with itself, because it is a low RTV contribution and it is a great savings, and on the other hand it raises VAT on those things that are enshrined in the law. And you wrote them yourself, you have them, and we can talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In the process for the future, I ask that we all stick to this and that we each make a procedural proposal. We are moving on to a further debate, Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This debate on this law is also useful, and I must say that I am joining Mr Brultz, who initially protested that some say we are wasting time in Parliament. I agree that there is a need for debate, and this debate also brings important reflections. Look, without this debate, I wouldn't know what colleague Tamara Vont has informed me that a number of recent years in media outlets have not been regularly employed by young graduates. This is clearly a deformation of these left governments in the past and the media maggots that have actually humiliated young diplomats. I wouldn't know that without this debate. At the same time, there were three Members talking about paradigms; Mr Kavtičnik said that totalitarian paradigm was on the march. I think that more of this totalitarian paradigm is how to control young journalists – just as they controlled themselves. Then Mr Čehovin said that it was a general paradigm for right-wing parties and right-wing governments to raise taxes and left-wings to lower taxes. I have to protest here, even though he's not here. With this, Mr Čehovin, wanted to present himself and his client as a modern centre-right party because she proposed an increase in value added tax. He wanted to contradict this characteristic given him by Mr Luksic, that they were an old left, an old left. Now I see there are a lot of new features here, and thank God that yesterday the gloves were taken off by two professors who are raising and teaching journalists, Mr Luksic and Mr Gantar, and started working without gloves. See, maybe I am – time is running out – the most impartial, even a little critical to increasing the tax [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I would have had one warning. In this application, no one has the opportunity to replicate, so I suggest that each person in his or her debate be defined with content, not to mention colleagues and colleagues, because they cannot replicate you. That goes for everyone. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word! Colleagues, colleagues! Initially, it should be pointed out that we do not accept such bill proposals with enthusiasm and joy, neither by the government nor by the government. On the other hand, I am disappointed by today's debate, because in today's debate almost no one has touched the reasons and reasons why we have such a law on the table. We have such a law on the table to save public finances in Slovenia, which are very poor. On the other hand, I am convinced that such a law as we have today would not be necessary if the opposition were a little more constructive and a little more operational to the government's proposals. Why did you reject the fiscal law? The Fiscal Rule Act doesn't take anything from anyone, nothing from anyone. The budget expenditure shall be those charged with the budget and the borrowing interest shall be one of the most important expenditure. As a result of these matters, we are losing credit ratings and spending is increasing; on the other hand, we have to do something on the revenue side. Why are you blocking government solutions with referendums? The Slovenian State Holding Act, I am sure that it would be one of those who could increase the revenue of the budget. The rehabilitation of the banking system is necessary, and we are talking again about a referendum. If this work of Parliament and opposition continues, I am sure, colleagues and colleagues, that we will have even worse solutions at the table in the coming months, because we will be forced to do so and that is certainly not the solution for everyone. Let us step together, be aware of this situation and make as few proposals as possible, but the opposition must do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Richard Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Thank you, Vice President! I've already told you in the beginning that I have a problem with this law, but to avoid being blinded, it's a collection. For a collection that is strictly necessary for a number of reasons. It is of primary importance that additional funds should be provided to finance public spending, including to address the catastrophic consequences of the accidents referred to by Mrs Vont. This is also why it is essential to balance the 2013 and 2014 budget. Second thing. Let us take a closer look at our neighborhood and now there is also an opportunity to make a comparison of taxation of similar services and goods with similar rates as they do in our neighborhood and other developed countries. Third thing. The use of different VAT rates is problematic in each economy. Why we have higher things and why we have lower ones — now is the opportunity to consider if any things need to be corrected here. I speak from a competitive point of view, I speak from an economic perspective. Even if this Parliament accepts all that the Government has wished and proposed, there are still more than 50 articles, 50 types of services remaining below VAT. In 2010, a number of these sets of goods and services, which are subject to lower taxation, were reduced. Why is that? Because you said at the time that this needed to be reduced in order to prevent a grey economy, so that we could increase the number of taxpayers in order to lower the prices of those sectors and so on. It has not all come true.We cannot support or remedy the country's inefficiencies, and this certainly cannot be a measure to eliminate the grey economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u88	You know what they say, those who don't like animals don't even like people, respected colleagues. As far as these are concerned, you're the ones who left the ZUJF hungry. There are hundreds of children in our schools who are hungry. ZUJF, you confirmed it, not us – just so much to know! The Fiscal Rule Act, I didn't see it myself, and I don't know, maybe my colleague had another idea, but exactly what he said; if we passed the Fiscal Rule Act, we wouldn't need to take action – that's a mistake! That's how they think they're going to get married and there's nothing else to do. Motive, mistake, lie, whatever you want! You have no ideas, you have no vision, you have no real solutions, so today we are dealing with a law that neither the coalition supports – unfortunately. However, the Secretary of State is silently sitting and looking, and he is not even trying to give us a word of his best and answer. You know how one journalist wrote down who will be to blame if a threesome comes to our Slovenia – your favorite word. Not an irresponsible opposition, not an unreasonable people, but an incompetent government. Once again, let us face the fact that the government is responsible for the situation in this country. You're the one who's making the arrangements. You weren't guilty when you were in the opposition. You're not guilty now that you're in the government. I don't know if we even know where we are or what you're doing. You always have someone else to blame, respectable colleagues! That's not how it works. At this point, you have everything in your hands, everything, including this one – if I use an ugly word – stupid marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. Please focus on the debate, on the subject, not on any of you. Here you go, Mr. Puksic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u90	Madam Vice-President, I agree with you, so I would suggest that you comment on this meeting yourself, which has just happened with Mrs Alenka Bratušek's performance, or that you should point out that she has worked contrary to your instructions, contrary to her work in the National Assembly. At this point, no one can replicate and attack in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Procedural proposal, please, as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u92	I'll put it exactly the way my former colleague Majda Potter gave it to me, but I'll give it to you. Yes, Alenka Bratusek is currently attacking the government, the coalition, when she is most responsible that the country is naked and barefoot because she was preparing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Mr. Puksich, I won't allow it! Mr. Pukšič, I'll take your word for it because it's a procedural abuse!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u94	However, the procedural proposal is to draw her attention to what she is doing in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u95	Mr Pukšič, you yourself have also made grave abuse of the procedural proposal, made insults and condemned the Member of Parliament. I regret to say that it is always good to behave in all the debates – each of us must look at ourselves. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. There's a little folklore in here, too. Those who observe for the first time — and this is a few young people — the government before us get the feeling that the government really does not know, knows, and cannot answer all the questions and concerns we have in this law or in this bill. You are working according to the principle 'the blind chicken finds the grain', but we have already heard today, and even recently I have learned that this anger and resentment towards the media leads to many media failing and with these people no longer giving them the opportunity to get adequate information. You want those people who know less, who have less information to be even less critical. It's about the media. But I don't understand your offense to young people to raise VAT on sports facilities. I don't know why young people and athletes are so hard on you. You may be working on the principle that young people and people, if your intentions succeed, will no longer be able to engage in sports because they will have to work 13, 14, 15 hours for miserable wages and will not be able to afford any rest and sports. As for the small animals, I received this text from one colleague or not a fellow listener: "Thank God Mr. God has such a great zoo – I didn't just think of quadruples. Good-bye!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision [[...]] Procedural mag. Alenka Bratusek. Please stick to the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u98	Absolutely. I propose that we find out whether the Government is even standing behind this and all the proposals it is sending to Parliament. Are officials responsible and responsible for this? Because if that is the case, well-respected colleagues, then ministers, secretaries of state, and perhaps even the President of the Government, we don't need them. I would like a clear answer as to whether this is a proposal from the Government and the Minister of Finance or whether this is a proposal from officials who are somehow responsible for everything in this new government, the former – they will be present after nothing is done as it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u99	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, I must inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give a word to the representative of the Government, because there was no decision at the conclusion of the debate to give any of the answers. But we certainly expect this until the second reading. I will also make a proposal that we must get answers to all the questions that have been raised in this debate today. I'm sure the government will take action in this direction. This concludes the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in 15 minutes in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.05 p.m. So in 15 minutes. Five minutes past twelve.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u100	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration. Can we vote? Good. Who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group? Check-in is on. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'll be brief so I won't delay the session. As I have said many times on my behalf and on behalf of the Group of Members, pension reform is one of the most important measures that Slovenia should take, which we should have taken years ago. Not only last year, when it was finally rejected and when we supported it with active, truly active cooperation all the time – not only through cooperation, but also through the introduction of our proposals mainly in order to ensure better conditions for mothers with multiple children and others, not to mention the issues that have been taken into account in last year's legislation on our part. I am pleased that the lawmaker is a ministry, which is still in coordination with the social partners – I hope that these coordinations will take place in a spirit of understanding that there is something to be done in this area if we want the pension treasury to be least sustainable. I am pleased that these proposals have, in most cases, also been taken into account that some of the changes that were not previously harmonised have been made, and I will not now look for the reason why they were not – let's put this back, we must look ahead. It is necessary to draw up such a final text of the pension law in order to ensure the sustainability of the pension allowance and, on the other hand, to minimise or not to affect at least the most vulnerable categories of citizens and citizens. For this reason, in today's vote, we will vote in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration, and I guarantee that we will continue to be active in the further coordination and burning of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u102	We have two applications for DeSUS. He is likely to explain, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, the voice of the Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! Pension reform is very important for our parliamentary group as well as for DeSUS. In the Group of Members, we decided to support the proposed law in the first reading. We want and at the same time demand that, through further discussion and coordination with the social partners, such a final text of the law be drawn up that will take account of everything that has been said more broadly within the National Assembly and among the social partners. We are aware that demographic data are as they are. We are aware that Slovenians and Slovenians – thank God that this is the way we live for a long time, which means that we have benefited for a long time from what we have invested in the pension fund. It is also crucial for us that the pension fund is cleared, that it is transparent to see what is in this register, and in no case do we oppose that pensioners also have the right under certain laws. But let the transparency of things appear in the PIZ. In the party DeSUS or the Group of Members, we will support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u104	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. If three years ago we were still wondering whether pension reform was necessary or not, today these dilemmas are no longer needed. To answer this question, we have also been helped by the credit rating houses, which again lowered our credit rating at the end of the summer and thus encouraged our indebtedness. In order to reduce the cost of indebtedness and our money, we need to adopt all necessary reforms, including pensions. We do not work for others in pension reform, but we do it primarily for ourselves. And the biggest pressure and the biggest threat to our pension fund today are not pensioners and the older ones, but it is that we have 110 thousand unemployed, that we have only 560,000 employees in the economy and additionally, for example, 61 000 independent entrepreneurs who support this pension fund, and we urgently need to find a new balance. But time pressure is the reason why the government has decided not to make a completely new proposal, but to upgrade the one that has already been prepared. But she made some major changes. That is to say, she gave the pensioner the right one again. There is no pension and cannot be a social benefit, but it is a payment for contributions and a result of past work. More transparency and more justice are introduced into the pension system. We always hear that the budget has to add a billion 400. It's an additional psychological pressure to tighten the conditions. This figure would be significantly lower if pension funds were to be cleared of expenditure that does not belong to it. Young people's trust is very important. In fact, young people today only know if they are employed to pay some contributions. Why they pay them and what they'll have in 40 years, nobody knows. There is another fundamental difference between the former and the present law. The previous one is estimated to be sustainable until 2024, a little less. This means that this pension reform is much more people-friendly. In our party, we believe that given the short period of time, taking into account the social dialogue, this law is one that brings greater financial sustainability, which removes the doubts of pensioners whether they will receive pensions or not, and which, last but not least, gives a good signal to the financial markets that we in Slovenia are able to manage this country ourselves. That's why we're going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u106	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much, President. The OECD has already recommended, in the mandate of the previous government, Janez Janša, 2004-2008, to a number of countries, including Slovenia, the initiation of a pension reform procedure. If it was time to start then and if a pension reform had to be adopted two years ago, today is indeed a time of great alarm for us to accept the pension reform. The pension reform is absolutely necessary and in the first reading we will absolutely support the law in the Positive Slovenia Group, although we have already made it very clear that we have quite a few concerns and open dilemmas. If you allow for short periods – transitional periods, tightening the pension conditions for women, it should be longer, according to our assessment. The law, at least in this form, is unfair to those who have more children and to those who have been educated. Transitional provisions provide for the unfavourable protection of the expected rights of unemployed persons and persons with a recognised disability rate. The ambiguities are around the valorisation coefficient and around the bonuses for working under the conditions met or after 65 years. The fall of pensions, according to our assessment, will not be slowed by the bill. There is no adequate period of retirement for those who have begun to work young. Disadvantages are inadequate. Indeterminities are, at least according to our assessment, about individual accounts, which can also mean the end of solidarity in the system as we know it today. And what is absolutely unacceptable to Positive Slovenia in this form; the bill provides for the establishment of a group of pensioners, which was already the intention of the ZUJF, and the treatment of their pensions as a social transfer. We have had quite a few concerns, and we still have them today, and I hope, given that the Minister's willingness to cooperate has also been expressed, so that in the follow-up process, we will succeed in removing these uncertainties in the form of amendments or new proposals. As a result of all these facts in this first reading, we support the law, but I would like to mention that it is inappropriate – and this has often occurred in the debate – that older people are presented and treated only as a burden for the state treasury. In Positive Slovenia we are based or based on other assumptions. In particular, it is necessary to ensure quality of life during the third life period and intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u108	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats are very aware of the need for pension reform, and we will not oppose it despite imperfection – unlike some other parliamentary groups that have made completely different changes as they are today, and have helped to break the reform. What we would like to say is that the reform that we have ahead of us is just a form of reform, that it is a minimum correction and these are built primarily on two target groups. The first target group is women. Indeed, longer working hours will be carried out primarily at the expense of women. In a very short period of six years, the working time will be extended by 2.8 years. But very little will change for men. Like now, you'll be retired at 40 years of age, but they'll be deprived of child ratings. You will not believe what 88% of the ratings for children were used by men, so they did not work for 40 years, but on average 36.7 years. We will continue to strive to extend the same burden of men and women – this is also provided for in our law – but in a significantly longer period of time than is now foreseen. The second change is related to cleaning. Apparently, we've got a new group of scumbags to clean up and get out of the pension box. We're talking about one third of pensioners; 170 thousand, 44 categories. These are the people, among whom many have spent their entire lives paying righteously into the pension registers, evidently in the wrong cash registers. Slovenia has undertaken to pay their pensions, not their social transfers. That's a quarter of those pensioners. Have you looked, colleagues and colleagues, at whom you will delete in article 408,? Do you know there are farmers among them? Do you know there are disabled people among them? Not to mention the veterans who have given us the foundations of this statehood! If you want to interfere with rights, you can in those laws that regulate these rights, but forwards, not backward. Therefore, we will strongly oppose this cleansing, the creation of a new group of deleted and stories that will surely end in our national disgrace again in Strasbourg. We'll enforce the amendments. We hope for creative cooperation, as opposed to you, that we have adopted 14% of the SDS amendments in the previous term and an additional 8%, which have been proposed as amendments to the Committee. 20% of the amendments, respected by colleague Irgl, were adopted on the basis of comments made by SDS. I hope you'll be so kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u110	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening the application. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u111	Respected and respected! We are all aware that pension reform is necessary. In my opinion, it is not only necessary to prevent the fall in the pensions of current generations of pensioners in order to reduce the fiscal burden on the maintenance of the pension register that the state is responsible for providing pensions as a constitutional category for pension insurance. This insurance must, however, be based on the belief, on the long-term confidence that the current generations will also, that young people will one day also receive a pension, and that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is behind this guarantee. However, in the proposal for a pension law, some things are extremely problematic. In my debate, I have already mentioned the question of the transfer of the rights of 170 thousand pensioners who are granted the right to a number of regional laws, and in 1999, when the so-called Rope pension reform was adopted, the law guaranteed the payment of their pension rights. Now 44 categories under the code of pension clearance are to be transferred from the pension law so that, once within a year, their situation will be governed by a special law. I think that if he does not ensure that the status is properly regulated, we will have trouble adopting pension reform this time too. I would like to give pension reform, as it was last year, an opportunity, but I clearly expect that there will be adequate guarantees, either in this law or in another law, that the social situation of the insured, in line with the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and the principle of justice, will not change further.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u112	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u113	Your Honor! The pensioner is increasingly viewed as the burden of this society, rather than being respected and rewarded for everything they have given and for everything they have worked for at the time they were active. The law must be moderately just for all pensioners and pensioners. The law must not be discriminatory; it must be satisfactory with it — now we have opportunity and time — for all, all groups who have retired; those who have paid contributions to the pension box during their work; those who have earned their pension in a different way, including by fighting for that country. I therefore expect the proposer to take into account all the initiatives and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because, as this law also depends on the labour law and the implementation of the whole process in practice, if we want to encourage and launch our economy; to take into account the proposals and initiatives of the Association of Disabled Persons of Slovenia, the Free Trade Union has also made its proposals; military pension holders have proposed what needs to be taken into account in this law, and here are a number of proposals and initiatives of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. I'll support the marriage myself in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u114	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u115	Three years ago, we knew — at least most of us — that this pension reform was necessary. Unlike you, dear colleagues in the government, we have also written this down in our programme. It is sad, however, that we are not really talking about reform, but about minor changes. Five years from now, we'll be dealing with urgent changes or reform again if you want. We have already received some answers, some answers, I hope we will get more, we also expect some correction, and we expect the law to be brought together as best as possible and in as many points as possible with the social partners. I am pleased that we have found here that the pension reform, as you say, will by no means bring 150 million savings in the coming year, which is not expected after all. Reform is not being done to have a major financial impact in the coming year, but is being done in order to make our public finances, and thus state stability, as long as possible. But when the price of our money began to rise, you can see. Unfortunately, when you have just successfully helped to break the previous pension reform, which I believe was significantly better than it is today. But, as I say, because it's urgent, I'm going to support it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u116	Mr. Richard Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u117	Thank you, President. I announce my support for this law, and I believe that it is a good basis for further consideration, and we expect this law to improve, perhaps even to this extent – as my colleague Misic said – that it will be acceptable for all and will take account of all the groups involved. Maybe I'd point out one detail, one group that we haven't talked about in the last few days. It is the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia. This is a mutual company of craftsmen and entrepreneurs that has more than 15,000 members and has been carrying out voluntary pension insurance since 1956. I only point out that this part, this segment relating to the fund, will have to be properly regulated. In the current law, this is not the case, and I expect that this law will, however, be regulated as it should – to avoid some unnecessary remedies and the problems it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u118	Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will also vote in favour of this bill, not because you have managed to convince me that as a member of the opposition I must support and unite myself with the Government's expectations and proposals. I do not agree with the way in which the government has chosen to deal with the crisis, but I do not agree even more with the way in which the government operates. For most of the laws adopted in the National Assembly, the Coalition has sufficient votes and must assume the responsibility it has assumed as the Government. The votes of the opposition are urgently needed only for constitutional change. I will support the law because in Positive Slovenia we support proposals that are necessary, even though they are not ideal for not only harmful and disruptive, as sometimes happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u120	And Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. I must say that in the beginning I will support the law because I believe that pension reform is extremely necessary and necessary. However, I do not agree that 150 million will be saved from pensioners. The requirement of pensioners is also that pensions be aligned in the following year. From this title, 50 million shall be allocated each year to the Capital Society. These are not budget funds and therefore we will not agree, or at least I will not agree to use these funds for other purposes, but they will have to be placed in the payment of pensions or the coordination of pensions. Many mistakes have been made with regard to pensions, including the Public Finance Balance Act, and these issues will need to be rectified in the future, as a lot of comments are coming to our address and some are highly justified. I agree that the Fund of Merchants and Entrepreneurs should be properly regulated. It should be borne in mind that, at the time of the establishment of the Fund, this arrangement was not possible in the State institutions and that it is now necessary to resolve the matter in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The law, as I said, will be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u122	And Mr. Franz Jursha. I'll reopen the application because there are more of you. Check-in is on. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u123	Thank you, President! I myself, honourable Members and Members, will support this law. But I appeal to you now to enable us to make the mistakes that are present in the draft and in the first reading – to make a relative grave attack on the female part of our citizens and to try again to make the "deleted two" – with the common strength to correct the law so that it can be adopted with all the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u124	Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u125	Thanks again for saying that. I'll support the bill myself. Given that I support this stage of acceptance of pension reform or pension law, I believe that it is essential that things are being taken more slowly, that a change of work is possible for 7 years, and that the debate will then start again on why the situation is likely to change significantly after 7 years in the country. I would like to point out that in Slovenia we have 590 thousand pensioners, of which 215 thousand pensioners have a retirement pension of less than 600 euros, which corresponds to the threshold of poverty – we must not forget that. We must not forget that in 2001 we had an average salary of 73.2%, and that we have now come to 58.6%. We will insist that this percentage will be 62.3. We will also insist, I say with determination, that pensions are aligned in 2013 and 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u126	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u127	Well, hello to you on my behalf, too! I will support the bill at first reading and expect the coordination of the transitional period for women, professional pensions and the valorisation factor, which is very controversial for me. Remember that in 1992 he was 5, 2004 he was 1, and since 2005 he has been very low. Now it's 0.73, and that's very controversial. I would like to ask for the coordination of this valorisation factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u128	Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u129	Thank you. I supported the pension reform in the first place because it was a reform. I am not satisfied with this because it does not reach the basic objective of ensuring the sustainability of the pension fund and preventing the pension from falling. However, there is a possibility that we will continue to reach agreement on certain urgent corrections, in particular I think that Article 161 should be corrected, which the 44 categories take up the rights so far, and it is not intended to take them, since Article 408, specifically states that certain pensions will be abolished, some contributions will be considered as social transfers and will go into the sectoral legislation which is supposed to be adopted within one year. Anyone who learns about parliamentary work knows that the time of adoption of laws can also move away, because there is always some mitigating circumstance that makes it impossible to do so. It cannot be concluded that this pension law would in fact be reformary and realize those objectives that we have been predicting. However, the fact is that the previous team was very clumsy in the media promotion because it all hung at 65 years of age, and it overlooked that for those who entered the labour market 20 years ago, 40-year working hours or pensions were also taken into account. So look and sum it up, and you'll see where we are. Even this one, 65 years old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u130	Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since I'm a responsible person, I don't even think about breaking the pension reform, like you. Despite all her shortcomings, I will support her. But I'd say there's quite a bit of swindling in your sequence. We will gradually achieve a significantly higher burden on the future generation of pensioners and young people. This is the side effect of this reform, which is not reform, but is a form of reform. The second thing I would like to stress is that I am pleased that the applicants have realized that they are doing a great injustice primarily to intellectual mothers, because according to the initial proposal of the law they should not be granted a time bonus for children. I was the first to point out this, and the solution they are now proposing is somehow supported. The fact is that two data are important for the pension system. On the one hand, the amount of time we work and pay, on the other hand, how much time we receive a pension. This means that those who retire at the age of 60 will receive a long - term pension. When you talk about justice for 40 years and so on, remember that some will work until the age of 65, and younger generations will work much longer, probably until the age of 70, because your miraculous reform did not provide them with jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u132	Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support this pension reform, as my fellow Members of the Slovenian People's Party, and in particular I must stress that the Slovenian People's Party has once supported a similar reform. Why would I support the pension reform? Simply because by adopting pension reform we are already seriously behind schedule, which is also confirmed by many negative consequences. Secondly, because in these times of crisis we still need a stable pension system. Thirdly, long-term pension reform brings the sustainability of the pension fund. And last but not least for the fourth time, the new pension reform brings the cleansing and transparency of the pension register. In the discussion below, I will be actively involved, as well as members of the Slovenian People's Party, in improving the law in order to make the reform more favourable to family policy and to be more friendly to parents, especially mothers, who, in addition to their contributions to the pension fund, are "investing" in their children, who are still an important contribution and also a contribution to the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u134	Good. We can now vote on the proposal for a decision. We are voting on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, all 88 have voted in favour. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that I will therefore assign the draft law to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act is suitable for further consideration. First of all, explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I'll just open the application, but please only sign up for those who will present or explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u135	Social Democrats are aware of the importance of labour market reform. This is not least proved by the fact that the Labour Market Regulation Act was first adopted in 2010. It was also agreed that in the first three months the unemployment allowance should be set at 80%, as the amount of the compensation was very important in the initial phase. The proposed government proposal that we are considering now reduces this right from 80% to 70%, and this is the first thing we do not support, because the segmentation of the labour market is large, the scope of work is black, the increase in structural unemployment is increasing, the unemployment of young people and educated people is greatly increasing, there is no data on new jobs – so there is no rapid exit from unemployment. Another thing that disturbs us in this marriage is the obligation to work temporarily and occasionally. All unemployed over the age of 50 are, in other words, ordered to accept what they are offered, or to lose their right to compensation for unemployment. This is a discriminatory provision and we cannot agree to it. The bill is also far from the principle of 'every work counts' which we Social Democrats have enforced in the previous mandate with the Small Work Act. I'm only going to point out one more weakness that at first sight looks kind. The time of cancellation may also be spent searching for employment, but they do not make it clear that that time is deducted from the right to compensation for unemployment. We believe that this is a mere apparent improvement and we cannot support it. Even optional or optional publication of employment needs at the Employment Institute is seemingly friendly and does not really cover the whole segment. We see that at least two areas of discrimination are regulated in this law. It is the public sector that must, and the private sector that does not publish job needs, and older workers. We do not predict this law of support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u136	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u137	President, thank you for your word. We probably all agree that the field of labour legislation needs to be changed. The aim of all of us is to follow the reasons for attracting new investors, to reduce administrative burdens, to include as many young people in working relationships as possible, to reduce unemployment, to increase the number of employees in our country. Like I said, that's probably what we're all after, politics, unions and employers. Once all three of us are united, we are probably all aware that 100% of the support will not be possible for every solution we are preparing. For when we ask ourselves about the issue of flexicurity or safe flexibility, we get a completely different interpretation of these terms from that of employers. But we still have a month to find these solutions, so that in the end they will be of the best interest to our workers. Thus, at this time of one month by the SDS, we will listen to all these calls for further amendments and try to incorporate them in the form of amendments in the draft law. Maybe two more major solutions to this law. One is the abolition of the compulsory application for employment. In the SDS Group, we support this proposal, which is made by law. We believe that these were serious administrative obstacles, both by employers and, above all, by all those who have applied for a job, for example, over a hundred people for one job, with the employer already agreed with someone. For example, in the economy, a large majority of these used to work through student service and then had no chance of getting a different job. A hundred new applications, but no effect. We therefore support this new measure. With regard to the temporary and occasional work of the elderly and the unemployed, in the SDS Group we feel that every work is honorable, especially if it is properly paid. On the other hand, the motivation of the unemployed and the elderly in particular is to stay in contact with work, although this is not a regular form of work. Finally, we must all be aware that we can stop dreaming about the safety of workers if we press the economy around the door, because if the workers do not have a job, we will not have any new jobs either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u138	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There are certainly issues such as how to eliminate the traps of unemployment; how to encourage, instead of working in black, regular employment or at least temporary work; how to reduce the over-cost of social compensation for the unemployed and at the same time enable them to work, which is certainly more humane than support; and how to reduce administrative obstacles for employers. All of these are issues that we are trying to resolve with this law as well. Labour law is one of the laws that we have already seen at the beginning of the previous mandate that it must be urgently adopted, in addition to pension, health and some other – these are three main branches. Unfortunately, that was not the case for various reasons. I reiterate, like the majority or everyone in the National Assembly, that measures must also provide conditions for economic growth and new jobs, which the Government, the National Assembly and the Coalition are trying to take with the measures they are preparing and adopting and for which I hope to produce certain fruits. So this law, as we know, is also the subject of negotiations with the social partners. I hope that understanding on all sides will ultimately lead to the adoption of a law that will not suffer any pollen but will help solve the problems we have or have in the labour market. I also welcome the fact that the student work is excluded from this project – indeed, and I am trying to stress several times that the student work needs a number of changes, that we still have a number of anomalies there, even though we have tried to put them out in the past, at least two mandates back, and there is still a lot to sort out. On the basis of all this, I inform my colleagues and colleagues that we will also support the proposal of this law in the Parliamentary Group at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u140	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I must say that this is one of the laws in this reform package where we have the most reservations in Positive Slovenia. So believe me, I'm talking to a guy in the throat right now. The law is inconsistent with the social partners. After one thing was already harmonised, on the day we discussed the law at first reading, information came that this harmonisation had collapsed. Yesterday, too, the Economic Forum made it very clear that neither economists nor economists believe that this law will have visible effects. On the other hand, this law can significantly affect the system with consequences, particularly in the area of social security, and we have already discussed this today. Again, a field of social security is being reduced at the expense of no one, but even if the economists do not see the positive effects. The objectives will not be achieved, at least if the law remains in this form. Elimination of duality, reduced segmentation in the labour market, increased employment and, last but not least, new jobs. If you allow it — if you impose savings during the recession, it prevents growth, destroys state welfare systems and increases debts. One of the consequences of such a policy is the destruction of the democratic social system, one of Europe's greatest achievements and contributions during the post-war period. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, extreme caution is exercised in the further processing of this law. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we absolutely predict active cooperation with our contributions in the form of amendments. If you'll excuse me before I tell you how we're going to vote. The law in this form is based on the principle of flexible safety. In Positive Slovenia we advocate safe flexibility. I will give an example: Albania has the greatest flexibility in the labour market and faces 30% of unemployment at the same time. Flexibility means nothing if, on the other hand, we do not have adequate safety. Very serious concerns. As has already been said, we will participate in the follow-up process and given that the coalition has said that it is willing to listen to comments and take them into account, I hope we are not too naive if we press the "for" button at least at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u142	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. The regulation of the labour market is essential, but in line with the social partners. The worker deserves a stable job and a decent salary. Today, there are too many chains of contracts and these contracts are for a certain period of two, three months. Young and old over 50 years of age can’t help themselves. They need a salary every month, not just salary payments. This puts a lot of mental pressure on the employee, which also affects domestic life and the environment. Young people cannot stand on their feet, so they remain on the shoulders of the elderly. All of this comes with contracts for a certain period of time with interruptions. The Employment Service is also urgently needed by the institution. It is essential that the notification of the needs of employers and employees be collected in one place. We're all used to it, and so be it in the future, that when we're looking for work, when you're looking for work to contact one provider where all the data is collected. These data are also needed because of the statistical treatments we need to provide to the European Union. The collection of data without one institution will be very impressive and will be imprudent. We support the first reading of the proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u144	On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u145	The new labour market regulation law is, in principle, a very good basis for further consideration and I would like to reiterate in the Civil Gazette that it is now an opportunity for us to improve this matter further. We have already pointed out in the debates, and we would point out once again that the introduction of temporary and temporary work without any restrictions could be a good opportunity for all persons to be allowed to re- or additional activation and gain experience and additional earnings; to help employers to respond more flexibly to market demands; to simplify the various flexible forms of work; to introduce a more uniform system of occasional and temporary works, including student and student work; and to reduce work on black and non-taxation and contributions. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, as it is said, announces support for this novel with all these concerns, which we can address and improve in further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u146	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr Jerko Čechovin and Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u147	Thank you. As it is said, despite the great concerns we have regarding certain solutions in marriage, we will support this law at this stage, as well as ourselves. We will not engage any 'granite action' to rocket Parliament and not reward it with a candidacy for elections, but we hope that we will be able to convince coalition Members with our arguments and that some serious concerns and also proposals to improve this law will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u148	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u149	Your Honor! Now is the time for us to finally acknowledge the truth that would benefit us. With zeal for greater flexibility, we must not forget the sense of social security, for only with a sense of social security can we expect workers to be productive. If this sense of social security in society is lost, then this society is doomed to decline. In times of financial and economic crisis, we are also witnessing a crisis of values and the atmosphere in society is not good, so we need to be so much more social, so much more careful when adopting labour law. In general, it is time for reforms during the crisis, an opportunity to show our willingness to resolve the situation that we all, both the position and the opposition, will be united and that, as we voted in favour of the previous law, the pension law in the first reading, we confirm this so-called package of reform laws with all the votes for, not one vote against. However, it is a condition to align with the social partners, to take into account the opinions of all social partners, all working and inactive people of the Republic of Slovenia and to have a sense of social state. Slovenia cannot rush and follow only capitalist arrangements as such. People need social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u150	Good. There is still some interest in explanations of vote. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. In deciding on these laws, the Group of Social Democrats would be very pleased to have a clear direction from the Government as to what it wants in the reform of the labour market. When we read the statement of the responsible minister for this area that the Government is ready to move away from this reform, we were extremely surprised, and I also said that I do not really know how to act as the opposition in this case. But I also personally called on Minister Visiak to tell the Government what kind of concept he advocates in the reform of the labour market. We expect her to insist on doing what the President of the Government has said — that these reforms are necessary and necessary. This feeling of inadvertentity within the government is the one who tells me to abstain from this marriage today. Let me say that we have told and asked the Minister to insist on these reforms, which are necessary if we want to improve competitiveness and not least tell people when and how quickly they can get another job if they lose one. We cannot leave the labour market in any way to some current inspiration, but to a concept that has unfortunately not yet been presented, so I will abstain from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u152	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken, so I will assign the draft law to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Labour Relations Act. Here too, we will vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a labour relationship law is suitable for further consideration. First of all, explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Please sign up. Only on behalf of the House of Representatives. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u153	Thank you, President. This draft law has a number of problems. Not to support this law at first reading, but to the point that this law is too ambitious in our view, and to the point that we believe that some solutions are even a step backwards. The proposed law seeks to solve the problem of employee-to-employee division for an indefinite period of time by introducing fixed-term employment quotas, which is totally unacceptable for the National List. This creates administrative obstacles and does not remove them, as we have always advocated. Actually, we have fears where they don't exist. Let this administrative obstacle not be the reason why we are here covering the country's incapacity to stay above the legality of employment for a certain period of time. In the event of infringements of the Labour Relations Act, the employer is subject to a number of control mechanisms: work inspection, various other inspections, labour penalties, other institutions, which mean guards, even prosecution under the Penal Code and also compensation liability. We want this quota or this administrative obstacle to be removed. As far as this law is concerned, we don't want cosmetics, we want ambitious, we want competition law, we want reform with a big start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u154	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u155	Thank you. The government and Parliament must create or adopt such laws and measures as will create an environment in which jobs will be better created; an environment in which workers will be protected and untapped; an environment where businesses will be administratively and cost-effectively less burdened; an environment where inspection services and other state institutions will operate and will be effective. We have set ourselves goals: more jobs, as many employees as possible, as few unemployed as possible – if unemployment is to occur, and adequate protection for the unemployed and assistance to get a job as quickly as possible. To achieve these objectives, more reforms must be adopted. These are on the table today, which is why our common agreement is needed. For if we set or adopt reforms together with the same goal, they do not exclude them, but they lead to this goal in order to achieve it as soon as possible. The new Labour Relations Act has an ambition of our labour market, which is that labour costs are high in employment, so we have employees for a certain and indefinite period of time – all of these things would be eliminated by the Labour Relations Act or taken a few steps further. Several times more time contracts are concluded than for indefinite periods – if quotas are the right solution, if they bring about changes for better, they will prove to be at a time when negotiations with the social partners are under way. Maybe we can find a better formula. For the time being, this is the law and we support it in our Group of Members, but if the agreement is different, we will support a coordinated solution. The system is very unfair, because when we compare those who are employed for a certain period of time with those who are employed for an indefinite period of time, we know that this is a major problem of a fixed period of employment, which is constantly prolonged mainly for young people who are so difficult to create a family, who are hard to own, who go to their own households and who create their own family. Thus, as the new law says, it brings about changes. It also reinforces the options offered by the inspection services. It also lays down fines and therefore we hope that there will be fewer infringements of the rights of workers that we have seen in recent years by employers who are usually interested in earnings, but not by the individual who has earned it in his work. Of course, most employers are honest, want to do good, and want to have good workers. However, if someone does not turn out to be a good worker, the employer has to be able to replace him quickly and the worker has to get a job quickly, so we support the Labour Relations Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u156	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that again! This law is also one of those where coordination with the social partners is taking place in parallel with the consideration in the National Assembly. This is in its own way a problem, but I hope that it will end well in the end, given that it is also one of the laws — that I have pointed out earlier — which is urgently needed to regulate one of the areas by accepting it. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as I pointed out earlier, we support the reform of labour legislation, which employers and workers have been waiting for for for a long time. We support arrangements to prevent the payment of employee contributions that reduce the employment opportunities for a fixed period or as much equality as possible and the same conditions for employment for a fixed or indefinite period. In this law, we support the reduction of administrative barriers and the costs of businesses in relation to employment procedures and on the other hand, of dismissal. We expect the new labour legislation to help improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which will therefore be one of the levers for raising economic growth. Such measures, which would make the conditions for managing more comparable to competing foreign markets, are warned by economists, from small to large. At the same time, labour legislation must adequately protect vulnerable groups of workers, such as young, older and not forget those who have a family, and this must be protected and promoted by labour law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore want a friendly labour law to be maintained for the family. The transition to safe flexibility in employment is certainly one step towards a more competitive economy, on the one hand, and on the other hand to an incentive for employment of workers, to reduce unemployment. For these reasons, we will support the law at first reading in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u158	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u159	The Labour Relations Act is one of two pillars of labour market reform. Labour market reform is needed for the first time because effective human security needs to be ensured. Today we know that a number of people work in a way that does not give any legal certainty, I am primarily referring to the unjust crowds of young people who are forced into overcrowded forms of employment. Secondly, because we know that much of the key to increasing the competitiveness of our economy lies in labour market reform. We support these efforts. The Labour Relations Act is to a large extent the work of our government, and in many things I can also attach it to it today. It is true, however, that given the state of social dialogue, we do not yet know what the final content of the law will be, as we will adopt it in the National Assembly, so we want to give the social dialogue further encouragement and opportunity to agree on smart solutions with the social partners. These should also include solutions for those categories that are not partners in the existing social dialogue. It should be stressed that we are committed to safe flexibility, not to flexicurity. It can't be the safety of the one who's adapting. We must make sure that the human being is safe in any case through the legislative framework. Therefore, given our failure to support the labour market regulation law, we can support the labour relations law in the hope that those disputed provisions that have been pointed out in this debate – particularly the issue of quotas, which, in our opinion, are only further forcing employers to hire reputable workers – to properly harmonise this solution in the social dialogue. In the parliamentary process, we will draw clear and clear attention to those solutions that disturb us in the bill. At this stage, the Social Democrats will support further consideration of the Labour Relations Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u160	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! The new Labour Relations Act is urgently needed. This is what the economists told us last night at the top of the Slovenian economy. They said we need more flexible employment for workers, as well as more flexible forgiveness when the scope of work in the company decreases. In doing so, it should be noted that social transfers for the period of unemployment must be provided for forgiveness. In the DeSUS Group, we accept the proposed innovations brought by the Labour Relations Act, one more, the other less. In this regard, I particularly stress that in DeSUS we are aware that a worker must be protected as a weaker partner in a relationship in the new regulation of labour relations. We expect them to get as close as possible in the negotiations with the social partners. This is important to ensure that the law is acceptable both to employers and to workers, and that there will be no threat to the referendum at the end. In the DeSUS Group, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u162	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The new Labour Relations Act brings, in short: greater flexibility of employment, shorter notices, internal mobility of employment, the conclusion of a contract not only for one job, but more broadly, so that it will be possible to deploy workers in the work process without any administrative obstacles and also bring less red tape. In general, we can say that it increases competitiveness and gives hope for economic growth. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support further consideration of the Labour Relations Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u164	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u165	No job is permanent, everyone has a period of time, including the one with the name of working hours or the place of work for an indefinite period of time. The circumstances are such that we need to adapt our labour market to new circumstances in the world and in Slovenia, and by this law before us, we are in some way ensuring greater safety for workers and, on the other hand, greater flexibility for businesses. Let me just give you a few examples of what greater worker safety will mean. Workers will be able to break their employment by not paying their contributions; employers will be responsible for the possible establishment of straw companies, the re-employment of workers there and the sending of such enterprises to bankruptcy; agency work will be limited, which we have found in this Chamber to be a modern slave. These are the things that will increase the safety of workers. On the other hand, if we find out what will result in greater flexibility for employers – that is certainly more room for manoeuvre in setting service and work obligations, easier forgiveness in case of faulty reasons and shorter notices. I certainly think that it is clear to all in this Chamber that this is just one stone in a mosaic that needs to be filled so that our economic environment in Slovenia can be improved. To make these old ones better and to move forward, there will be another matter to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u166	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? If not, we can go to the vote. We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a labour relationship law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, all 87 votes in favour. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have reached a decision, so I will assign a proposal for a Labour Relations Act to the labour force, namely the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and the disabled. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is appropriate for further consideration. We move on to the Ahasuerus vote, an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[...]] Let me just ask – who wants to explain the voice on behalf of the delegation? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law at first reading, mainly from the simple fact that this law represents an administrative burden on the small economy and thus facilitate and simplify business operations for companies – as is now defined in the law – that reach up to €50,000 per year. While we wanted this revenue limit to be slightly higher in the Slovenian People's Party, it is said that the simplified taxation extends to a wider range of legal entities, since in our view this means significantly less grey economy. However, we are confident that the effect of this law will be shown very quickly, in a short time, and we will be able to modify this law accordingly. In particular, I would like to highlight the problem of abolishing relief for migrant workers, those who resolve their social status through daily migration to work across the border, in particular to Austria and Italy. The fact is that they solve both the pension problem and the social treasury problem and, last but not least, the impact on consumption in Slovenia. Given that the Convention on the Avoidance of Two Taxes is obviously not being implemented, I think we need a new solution in this area. We fear that the abolition of income relief for migrant workers in this area can cause even more harm to the state budget than the benefits. Like I said, we'll support the marriage. However, due to the above-mentioned problem, I expect a more comprehensive solution for the Slovenians working in neighbouring countries. One option is to leave this relief temporarily alone and to prepare a systematic amendment to the law in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u168	On behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for a law on some urgent considerations and additions is appropriate for further consideration. The reservations we have are as follows: in our opinion, as well as in the opinion of the trade chambers, entrepreneurs, the professionally clearly too low threshold for entry into the flat-rate system. We believe that the conditions for entry in this sense need to be changed, both upwards and without prejudice, radically. We also have more questions than answers about the Cedural regime, both in flat-rate taxation and in renting. Even in the elimination and reduction of certain specific personal allowances, we have more concerns about students and less in the case of tax losses and migrants. The reservations mean we'll be at second reading, and you know that, a demanding interlocutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u170	Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal to conclude that the amendment of the Income Law is appropriate for further consideration. We have warned of some shortcomings in the proposed solutions in the debate. We have our own concerns about the limit when an entrepreneur can enter the flat-rate taxation system, but Minister Šuštersič has promised here before this meeting that we will set up an observation period, let's say it's six months, and we will see if there are any such effects after the law is implemented as we expect. If not, we can change that limit. That's what we say, according to our argument, we raise. We also have our own comments and do not accept the solution proposed for cross-border labour migrants, here I think about 12 000 citizens and citizens, especially from Pomur, from Koroška and other border regions, who migrate daily to work in neighbouring Austria. Let me remind you that the income from the employment relationship achieved by residents through the management of employment outside Slovenia, in accordance with the concept of global income since 2005, is also taxed in Slovenia. As these incomes are also taxed in the country where they are achieved, double taxation occurs, which is eliminated by reducing the income paid under the Slovenian rules by the income paid in another country. The former government adopted a solution that was fine at the time. Certainly, however, the previous government did not say that a tax deduction of around €7,000 is a systemic solution. It is likely that the systemic solution must go within the meaning of the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and between Austria, and this matter must be systematically resolved. These people, these approximately 12,000, also want to pay something in the Slovenian budget. But to raise 12,000 people and piss them off for 2 million revenue into the state budget – I don't think that's good and that we need to look for systemic solutions in this direction. In fact, of these 12,000 people, only about a thousand 500 reported their income earned in Austria. This already shows the need to establish exact records. This is also the second task of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u172	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Patricia Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u173	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, as it brings new arrangements in several areas. By simplifying corporate tax operations by upgrading the existing system of standardised expenditure, it expands the range of small entrepreneurs and removes certain administrative obstacles. The percentage of standardised expenditure is set at an absolutely higher rate by the new proposal for a law, as this standardised expenditure raises from the current 25% to 70% of the tax revenue recognised. The revenue for the tax year of such taxable persons will be calculated from the tax base at a uniform rate of 20%, which will mean a definitive tax, which means that these revenues will not have to be recalculated in the progressive income scale. The proposal also seeks to promote the socially beneficial activities of individuals who, through their knowledge and experience, contribute to improving the quality of life of individuals and social groups and to the development of a solidarity, humane and equal society, by establishing the tax base of the income of volunteers under certain conditions and to certain levels of exemption from payment of income from certain benefits received under the Voluntary Act by natural persons engaged in such voluntary work. Furthermore, the law provides or introduces a provision for natural persons who obtain income from the rental of property, and this does not mean income from the exercise of an activity. This revenue is subject to the taxation of the income from renting, which means that these incomes will be taxed at a rate of 25% tax and this tax will also be regarded as a definitive tax. Furthermore, the draft law also closes the deadline laid down by the obligation to transfer farm households with more than 7 000 500 euros of total income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, from flat-rate taxation to the determination of the tax base on the basis of actual income and actual expenditure to 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law will have positive effects on the state budget and our parliamentary group will therefore support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u174	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will support the law in the first reading, especially because it brings some advantages or novelties and because we anticipate that financial effects will increase in our budget. However, while we have little skepticism on the issue of the application of the 50 000 euro flat and the recognition of 70% of the costs of this amount. For only those companies that, in my personal opinion, and also in the interview we had will be included in this scheme, do not want too much enlargement, which provide intellectual services and whose costs are lower than the amount that is expected to be released. Therefore, we believe that any calculation should be made, if possible, otherwise, in the middle of the year, it is necessary to determine whether this exemption is appropriate only for the transition to the flat-rate. This will not be done by companies dealing with industry, production, construction, because there are significantly higher costs of activities and they will probably rather show the actual situation. Otherwise, as I said, we will support the marriage in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u176	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u177	Well, in the general defence of this House, however, let me say that the Social Democrats will vote against the appropriateness of the amendments and the supplementation of the Income Act for its further consideration. For all three reasons, which reflect three fundamental solutions. For the first time, because we believe that, at least to a systemic solution, for example, an appropriate interstate agreement on the regulation of the tax situation of our residents working in the Republic of Austria is not wise to change their position. We are aware that a solution with special relief is an extra-systemic solution, but it is a solution. Indeed, the information previously suggested by Mr Horvat clearly shows a thousand out of twelve thousand. But, Your Honor, this proves, above all, that these people are generally people who also in Austria deserve low incomes. I propose that we maintain the current regime, but I am fully open to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia taking the appropriate initiative to regulate this situation with the Republic of Austria by an appropriate inter-State agreement. Until then, let this extra-systemic solution remain. Secondly, because we believe that changing the student work allowance at this time will add to the burden of many families. And for the third time, because we believe that the regulation of the cedularity of the tax on the rental of real estate is not fair because it relieves large tenants compared to those who broadcast, say, just a room or one apartment. Therefore, we believe that this law does not contribute to the development of a rental market in the Republic of Slovenia, which is already already very much underdeveloped. From these solutions in the Income Act, we are not promising the Social Democrats anything good, so we will vote against you in contrast to all of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u178	We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that I will therefore assign the draft law to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Financial Services Tax Bill. We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a Financial Services Tax Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The tax on financial services will be a new tax in the Slovenian space. You know well that in the Slovenian People's Party we don't like raising any taxes. The business environment in this country is already too burdened, and this tax is also accepted with the cotton in the throat. However, certain additional revenue needs to be taken into account. The competent ministry has presented a number of proposals to increase revenue, and as in many countries across Europe, we have decided to put a little pressure on the financial sector in the crisis. The undeniable fact is that certain services in the financial and insurance sector are completely untaxed, since they are exempt from both the value added tax system and the specific transport tax for insurance transactions. At the same time, it is true to say that some European countries have even introduced a value added tax on financial services in recent years. The principle of this tax is that a number of small transactions raise high amounts. This is also the financial effect of this law. This tax also includes taxation of the management commissions of asset management companies. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that a system will be set up in time and without complications to account for this tax by the Tax Administration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have decided that this is the least painful solution between those solutions that provide an additional source of income, so we will support the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u180	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Today we have already found that no tax rises are popular. We all talk about how we disagree with this in some way, and then we start to assess and identify, in particular, those in the coalition, that we need to ensure the revenue side of the budget. In this case, at this new tax rate, 6.5% of banking services or financial institutions are. This is not some amount, as the Minister of Finance once said, but because it pays quite a lot of taxpayers, something will come into the budget. What is crucial and what we fear most in our Group is that it will not be paid by financial institutions, but that this burden will be passed on to the natural and legal persons who will carry out financial transactions. Here we are most concerned that this payment will be most expensive in the older population, which is not so good at managing electronic communications or computers, does not pay through clicks, they do not like to receive monthly withdrawals through transaction accounts and usually pay bills. It has also been heard from the members of the Government, the Ministry's representative, that financial institutions should be selected for payment, which are the cheapest. You know, tradition and the way older people live is usually traditional, and in these matters they are not the most skilled, or this tradition takes them to one place. We have concerns, but at this stage we will support the proposal of the Financial Services Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u182	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Patricia Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u183	They will primarily be taxable persons to pay the tax on financial services of banks, savings banks, branches of foreign banks and other financial institutions providing financial services, as well as natural persons providing insurance intermediaries and agents. The proposal for a Financial Services Tax Act introduces a commission tax to be charged by persons providing financial services to the contracting authorities of such services. We also know that in Slovenia, following the current regulation, the added value generated by the financial sector remains untaxed. The tax will be charged and paid on the basis of monthly tax accounts and the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia will exercise control over the correctness of the tax. As we note that the proposal of this law will have a positive impact on the state budget, this bill will be supported by our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u184	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u185	Thank you. For the introduction of the tax we are talking about, the government has chosen the most economically inappropriate moment. The introduction of the tax will further affect the already severely affected operations of banks, brokerage houses, which have fallen by 90% in recent years, and funds management companies whose turnover has been reduced by half. On the one hand, the government is setting up a so-called bad bank to stabilise and rehabilitate the banking system and, on the other hand, the same bank is burdened with the pretext that the financial sector has not contributed sufficiently to the resolution of the crisis. In fact, this sector has contributed more to the crisis than this country and its citizens would have deserved. The results of the additional burden may also be that part of the business of financial institutions will move abroad, and this is a serious possibility, a serious signal that we must also take into account. There is also the possibility – not only the possibility, but it will probably do so – that because of the difficult economic situation, the burden of the new tax will only be passed on to citizens. Therefore, it is no wonder that the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks, is opposed by some prominent individuals, not with doubts, but with arguments. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will not support such an approach to introducing new taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u186	Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u187	This law, the previous law and the following law can also be referred to as systemic levers to promote the grey economy. The fear of Mr Jurša will prove to be true – financial institutions, banks – this tax will pass on to final consumers. We believe that this is the way most of these services will move into the grey economy, and therefore we believe that it does not bring any good, but it represents a relatively small fiscal gain. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u188	We are voting on the proposal for a decision, or Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic will explain in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u189	President, thank you very much. I am pleased when we adopt laws in the National Assembly that remove obstacles. But when we adopt laws that still impose additional obstacles, I am disappointed. The specific law introduces and introduces additional obstacles to Slovenia and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u190	We will vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a Financial Services Tax Law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 33. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 33.]] The National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision and I will therefore assign the draft law to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. First of all, explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm opening the application. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u191	It is clear that there is a need to generate budgetary inflows somewhere – this law has also been tabled for this purpose. In Novi Slovenija we have comments on certain articles and suggestions. My colleagues have warned about these things in the debate, and I can therefore say that we will vote today to move the law forward. If the second treatment of this matter does not change and we do not amend these disruptive provisions, then we will not be able to support this law, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u192	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will accompany the law for further consideration for the following reasons: the financial situation of the country is difficult and for the 2013 budget and for 2014 the country needs new resources. With a number of proposals in today's debate on how to do this, only one proposal was crystallized – instead, to increase the overall value added tax rate. In doing so, it is completely unexamined what it means to increase the overall value added tax rate in terms of inflation, from the point of view of the competitiveness of the economy, from the point of view of the reduction in total consumption, especially those in the small-border areas. Therefore, this is one of the solutions that we believe is not fully explored – further analysis needs to be done. It is certainly difficult to say today that it is worse than that to increase the overall value added tax rate. Today, we can talk about any service, any wealth or product we have dealt with, why not tax them. It should be borne in mind that three product and service groups were also taxed at a general rate three years ago. It's about cleaning the premises, it's about flowering and it's about hairdressing. These services were taxed at a general level in our country for a decade and no one then mentioned that it was necessary to do otherwise. Given that certain proposals have been made to tax certain services and goods at a significantly higher tax rate, and some services and goods at a significantly lower tax rate – mentioned the so-called luxury rates and the 6 % rate for certain products that are more necessary than others – it is necessary to know and think that this should already be known that in the European Union the European Commission does not allow these individual countries and that there is an obstacle here and it is therefore completely pointless to propose solutions that are not in line with the European Commission or the European Union's tax system, which we are committed to. The question is, what's the worst solution? We believe that the solutions or proposals mentioned so far may be significantly worse than the current proposal, so we will reconsider the whole matter and we will support this law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u194	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. This is a law that has raised quite a bit of dust in recent months, and this is also a law where even in the coalition we are not fully harmonised, but we hope that this will continue to happen, at least to some extent. In the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose raising value added tax mainly in three segments: public hygiene, newspapers and, last but not least, flowering. We are afraid that raising value added tax in the field of municipal services means a drastic rise in the rates for individual households, since raising this tax as of 1 January – as is predicted – will coincide with the release of prices in the municipal area, which is actually very difficult for some municipalities to expect. Here is the fear that these services will be strongly imitated. As far as newspapers are concerned, the question is whether the financial impact that this tax brings somehow weighs down the problems that may arise in certain media houses, as we know that the load of newspapers is already falling sharply. The florists are the ones who, in the debate we have heard many times before, solve the social problem in a family sense. It is those who have felt the crisis very strongly in the past period, and we know that the sale of flowers has already declined in one way or another. This financial impact will have to be replaced in some way – around €60.70 million – in the light of the concerns we have in the People's Party. My colleague, Jakob Preseknik, mentioned in the debate a rise in the general value added tax. I'm a little skeptical about this myself, and I still think it's some kind of extreme measure. For me, the introduction of a crisis tax is still significantly more appropriate, since it is the recipient tax and the value added tax that taxes consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u196	On behalf of the Ambassador Joint Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u197	Thank you. When this country adopted the concept of fiscal consolidation, we advocated a gradual fiscal consolidation, which should also be adequately equipped with an increase in certain tax revenues. We are pleased that the government has done this creatively, but unfortunately in our own belief in the wrong way. The value added tax law will result in an increase in the rate of tax on certain services: firstly, many family companies and self-employed who are already operating at the rate of profitability – reserves to increase the price of their services and thus exceed the increased burden of taxes on final consumers no longer; secondly, because it will reduce access to sports infrastructure for schools, for clubs, and in a country declared as a sport friend, and where sport and recreation constitute a mass habit and mass activity; thirdly, because the printing is the basis of democracy and because the increase in value added for daily newspapers and the printing represents a point where the issue of critical literature will no longer be profitable and will contribute to additional problems, to the already major challenges of Slovenian publishing. This is the basis of democracy and we seek to have an inclusive democratic public equipped with both credible, credible and impartial information, as well as opinions that provide leverage for people to exercise their right to choose. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u198	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Very briefly. This is not a good solution for our Group of Members. We are not excited about the government's proposal, but we are even less excited about coordination before the law came into the debate in our bench. After today's debate, we met Members and Members of the DeSUS Group, discussed this issue and decided how we will vote today. We are aware that the problem is the revenue side of the budget, but we are informing the Government that the law needs to be thoroughly amended so that we can support it in the second reading or further consideration. We will vote in favour of the proposal by a majority, this is said to be adopted by the value added tax law and to be considered further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u200	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. The reason for applying the lower value added tax reduction may be economic, social or political. The government is using the latter approach and also counting on because it has to, in the short term, a severe budgetary necessity. True, the fact is cruel. The scale of the deficit is higher, it can be even larger in the coming months, in the years. The increase in taxes cannot be quickly avoided without irreparable consequences and without damage. This fact also needs to be accepted. This is a fact that needs to be done seriously, professionally, responsibly, democratically and transparently – as some speakers have already said – without the nervousness and, above all, with less silence from the Government than we have witnessed to him today. However, since the European Union has been mentioned, since it is not here, it is necessary to take her side. In its position of 8. Ten. The Commission proposes to its members not to abolish any existing reduced rate during the general debate launched in October. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. We propose to the Government and the proposers that they keep the title of the law and correct the content. A sufficiently moderate and reasonable increase in the normal tax at an increased general rate. The arguments that this has not been studied are not true. It has been studied, even more, in most European countries it has been used and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u202	On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u203	Thank you, President. We have a problem with this amendment to the VAT Act in the Civil Gazette. The problem is, as a liberal party, we find it difficult to accept any introduction of new taxes, or we find it difficult to accept any tax hikes. However, we are trying to understand, at this stage and in these circumstances, the Government, whose aim is to provide additional funding for public spending, for the closure of the 2013 and 2014 budgets. The government's expectations are that €70 million will be added to the budget from this heading. We would like the government to look for another alternative source on the revenue side to fill this hole. Perhaps the government will take some step in this direction and in the final stage the VAT raise will not be needed at all these or at any point or at a very narrow segment of the pool as proposed. Furthermore, if Parliament adopts the law as proposed, in third reading, and all this traffic of goods and services remains as is now envisaged, we still have about 50 sets of different goods and services to remain on reduced VAT. I would say, on behalf of the Group, that today a lot of demagogies have been said, a lot of unjustified fears about the impact of athletes, top athletes, students, schoolchildren. All of these, in a specific case, will not be affected by this VAT increase – that we are in the clear. The Civil Code announces support for the law in the first reading, and we expect the Government to offer alternative resources, or it will concentrate on what is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Are we going to the vote or who wants to explain the voice? I see it's quite an interest, so I'm opening a report. The application shall be made. Seven panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we were at the top of the Slovenian economy, where the economy made four demands. One of the requirements is a business-friendly business environment, which means a more favourable tax policy, swift administrative procedures and, above all, a more flexible labour market. A more favourable tax policy means raising taxes, obviously that's how we understand it. I believe that the matter is completely wrong and that the possibilities for charging the budget must be sought elsewhere than in raising taxes. In today's Finances, we can read the threat; one company will fire 200 people, including the Lenart company, another company will close and the third one will move abroad and so on. In particular, the Lenart company, which has approximately 800 employees, will forgive 200 and several people in the first phase and move to Bosnia and Herzegovina in one year. This is our success in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mag. Marjana Kotnik Popotat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to explain my vote for this law today, because I also said in the debate that I do not think that the law is suitable for further consideration. I do not agree with the additional burden or increase the tax on the media. In my debate, I also gave examples of our neighbouring countries or countries in the European Union with lower media taxes, and some even exempt. Also, because I do not agree that we are so selectively approaching this problem and additionally burdening the use of sports facilities, food for small animals and so on. I expect the proposer to prepare, in the next reading or in the procedure under way, an amendment to this law or to amend this law. On this condition, I will vote today to see that the law is suitable for further consideration and if this does not happen in the second reading, I will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u208	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I won't support the law, I'm sure I won't. Even if I didn't know how to make an effort, I wouldn't even find as many points of resistance as black on my fingernails, so I could put the marriage into treatment and further application. I'm sure it was the government's kiks, because the government's representative didn't come forward and he didn't even want to explain what we were alerting him to. However, if this was not a thoughtless act, if it was not a kiks and if this was a deliberate act, it is vile, harmful, and shameful. For trespassing in the field of sport, Comrade Braniselj, is extremely inappropriate. To say today that this will not have a negative effect on sports is indeed a misdirection. I am confident that it will have a major impact and that a large rash will be in the area of mass sports, in the field of sport for young people. Therefore, I cannot support this law in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u211	Madam President, thank you for your word. I will not support this marriage. This law is the extreme range of the current Minister of Finance and the current Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine how angry it would have been if former Minister Križanič had sent such a squabble to the National Assembly — targets, one way or another. The law is inappropriate. The law does things you shouldn't do – the government sends the Animal Protection Act to the National Assembly at almost the same meeting due to the uncontrollable problems Slovenia has with its shelters. There are increasing numbers of animals in shelters because owners are no longer able to take care of animal food. The same Government is likely to be sending a bill at the same meeting, which will cause a very big problem. On the other hand, imagine some of the activities in Pomure, which have flourished at the border, are also part of the production of such and different flowers and competition with Austrian producers. Now we are going to give these people who, as a complementary activity of farming, have found a market opportunity and they are going through a lot of trouble and a lot of trouble by changing the tax in a way that makes them uncompetitive against Austrian competitors, taking away the opportunity to survive. Therefore, please let us vote against this law today and show, even though you are a coalition, that you can also punish when the Government or the competent minister sends stupidity to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u213	My vote will be against this law for three reasons. First of all, because the income tax is too low for flat-rate taxation and experts say it must be at least 400 000. Secondly, 60% of the standard costs are too low and need to be raised to at least 70%, but of course at the same time with the recognition of social security contributions. Thirdly, the proportional rate of taxation should be reduced from 20 % to a minimum of 15 %. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u215	I'll vote against it. I think there are other options for achieving the same financial results on the revenue side. In doing so, I must say that this law, which will limit and reduce the economic activity of largely small economic operators, will accelerate, as has already been said, the grey economy and the proceeds will be only where the matter is transparent, this is in the burden of municipal costs, which will increase enormously after the new year, not only because prices will be released, but also because many landfills will have to close their doors and drive waste to more remote collection sites at the end of this year. I can see even a reduction in volume here. On the other hand, I had quite a bit of a hard time because there is no greater pleasure than when left-hand tools use the right hand and raise taxes. It almost moved me so that I could at least hold on. Well, since Mr Jerovšek didn't understand what I was saying before, I only give it back to him: I'm a dancing left rather than a confessed right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u217	I myself have doubts about the Value Added Tax Act and I do not support it because it is too much of an interference with the social rights of all our citizens. I believe that resources should be sought to fill the budget elsewhere. I have already said several times that nothing has happened on the foreign side of the survey of stolen money, and I have asked my question several times at the meetings and also at the meeting of the National Assembly. There is sufficient resources to at least partially soften the budget register to fill it with certain funds. Secondly, our taxes are not collected on a regular basis. We have huge debts. Someone is responsible for this too, but it is not the people who will have to pay higher services on the basis of this value added tax. Imagine, for those who have low incomes — these people in our country, even if they are working — every euro means a lot. This is where we talk about five, six euros. This is a big deal for someone who has 500 euros in pension or personal income. Unfortunately, this bill cannot be supported, because this soul will not give me, and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Since I find that there is still an interest in explanations of vote, I am reopening the application. The application shall be made. Two reports. The first one has the word, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am pleased that – I am a little in a bad voice, I do not know, because I am a Member or something else – we have found in the debate that raising value added tax is a bad solution, whether it be the upper or lower rates. I have no problem with having a certain value added tax on goods or services that are now at the lower level, but there, in my opinion, has nothing to look for, raises to the upper level, but not all that is prescribed in the novel. I do not have a problem with value added tax on the cleaning service of windows and spaces, which is at a reduced rate. Those who want to afford it will also pay a higher tax — I think this is normal. If he doesn't want it, he'll clean it up himself. I don't have a problem with food for small animals. This may encourage another citizen, along with my esteemed fellow Member, to buy food for his pets in the butcher shop, as this will at least turn the home circle – food for small animals is mainly from abroad. In the first reading, I will support the marriage, and in the second, if I am satisfied with it, I will support it, or I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I will focus on that part of this law that talks about raising the tax on renting sports objects, although I must say that I do not agree with most of the other products and services covered by the proposal and should be subject to a higher tax. I've been working with the youngest for over 20 years. To this end, we established a sports society and in this sport society they train girls and boys from the age of six to sixteen. Our sports society, with the exception of some exceptions in the past, has been financed virtually only by the contributions of parents, from so-called practice. With this practice, this money raises sports society then covers all the costs it has. These are the administrative costs, the costs of props, balls and others, the costs of coaches and, above all, the rental costs of two halls that our society needs for its work in Ljubljana. With these shortcomings, however, last year and in previous years, especially this year, parents are increasingly having problems with the payment of defects. In our society, we have never rejected a child whose parents could not make it right, and in the future we will also try to find as many ways as possible to continue to work. But I know and I know that a huge number of small companies, clubs and similar organizations will have to close their doors because of the higher rent of sports facilities, because we will simply not be able to afford to rent sports facilities anymore. This means that first it will be dozens, then maybe hundreds, who knows, maybe thousands of children will be left on the street, or at home sitting in front of TVs and computers. What does this mean and how it affects their health, but we have already talked about this in this House. For this reason, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-15-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. I note that there are 83 Members present and there are 46 votes against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] It means that the decision is adopted and the law goes into further consideration. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Nicely greeted!
