ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue the 4th regular session of the National Assembly. I was informed that today's meetings could not be attended: Mr Roberto Battelli, mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Dejan Židan from 12 o'clock on and Mr Borut Pahor from 17 o'clock on. Nicely greeted. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a proposal for a law amending the law on the detection of catastrian income, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. If the representative of the Government, Mr Zivkovic, State Secretary, wishes, I now give it to him for further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government has prepared a proposal for a law amending the Qatari Income Law, which does not affect the content of the current law, thus does not change the method of determining cadastral income, but only for one year, in 2013, the implementation of the new method is delayed. In view of the loss of data for the determination of cadastral income for 2012, a simplified method of determining cadastral income for 2012 is proposed to be determined in the amount fixed for 2011. At the same time, the recording of data on cadastral cultures and classes, which will cease to be maintained after that date in the terrestrial cadastral, is being extended for a year. The reason for the proposed delay is the complexity of the task and the cuts in budgetary resources over the past years for certain activities without which the new catastrogen income identification system cannot be implemented. This is mainly the activity of updating the graphical management of the earth's cadastra and the activity of linking the data between the records of the more detailed actual use of agricultural land and the agricultural disaster. The law is being examined in a reduced procedure, as it has to be applied before 30 June 2012 in order to avoid a legal vacuum regarding the determination of cadastral income. The law also supports the interested professional public. In view of this and in view of the urgency of its timely application, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. To present the report of my mother's working body, I give the word mag. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek, member of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u4	Nice greetings to all present! Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of Articles 42, 126 and 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as its parent working body, prepared a report to the proposal for a law amending the Act on the determination of cadastral income following a reduced procedure. At its 4th meeting, on 23 May 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending the Act on the determination of cadastral income following a reduced procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. At its 14th meeting on 23 April 2012, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. No amendments were tabled to the proposed law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory, complementary explanation of the articles, the Minister gave a brief presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions as a representative of the bill's proposer. He said that the aim of the draft law was to provide a legal basis for the one-year extension of the deadline for the implementation of the new cadastral income identification system. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative drew attention to the need to review the cut-off dates, which had also been reviewed by the proposer. Amendments to the draft law on the working body were not adopted and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed that the draft law amending the Cadastrian Income Law, the reduced procedure, should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u6	Good afternoon, everyone! Your Honor! As you are already aware, this law has been postponed for a year. Why? As the conditions for its implementation have not been met. In the Slovenian People's Party, a good year ago, we supported certain changes in this area, including to move to a fairer system of identification of cadastral income, which would mean less deviations from the real state or state of nature. Nevertheless, today we see well what happens if some solutions are taken into account and not subject to the profession. Since it has been very popular to quote people and views lately, I would also like to receive a quote from the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group in the previous term, i.e. at the time of the adoption of the existing law. I state, "without the prior provision of all conditions, this law will not bring about an orderly and fair regulation and will only be a dead letter on paper. Its implementation is based on some solutions that are actually still in the air. If you really want to bury yourself in the midst of the problem – and in the Slovenian People's Party we hope so – then we suggest that all three competent ministries step together and actively engage in the regulation of the earth's cadastra, the land book and collect as much data as possible on the actual use of land. Once these records are regulated, the possibility of implementing a new methodology for the determination of cadastral income will be widely open and we will be happy to support it in the Slovenian People's Party. Until then, the adoption of a law on the determination of cadastral income in such a form makes absolutely no sense," the end of the quote. So, to sum up, at the time of the adoption of the law last year, the Minister of Agriculture was very well aware that the determination of the cadastral income was not just a technical operation, but rather rather a determination of a certain value of land. This is a matter of expertise in the regulation of records for the coordination of the land cadastra with actual use. This is certainly not a project for two officials at the Geodetic Authority who, after the then vehement assurances of the Ministry of Agriculture, are obviously able to arrange the whole of Slovenia and thus prepare an appropriate basis for the implementation of this law. The new Cadastrian Income Law therefore had a good purpose, but it did not take into account the complexity of the background that must be regulated for its implementation. There's been a lot of talk lately about disability laws. This one from the previous term can serve as an example. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will be supporting the proposal for a novel that delays the implementation of the law for a year, recognizing that there is a large project ahead of us, the establishment of a single record or link between the Earth's disaster and more detailed actual use. This task is even more difficult because we are at a time of cost rationalisation and it is likely that a number of staffing transfers and financial reserves in the budgets of individual ministries will be needed to meet the conditions for the implementation of this law. A good year ago, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we proposed that the coordination of all activities concerning the regulation of records and the preparation of the basis for the determination of cadastral income be taken over by the Ministry responsible for finance. Today, too, there will be a need for three ministries to cooperate in this area, along with financial ones, both agricultural and infrastructure. This sour apple will have to be bitten sooner or later. With a project as extensive as this one, we can wish them much success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u8	Good-bye to all of you! Thank you for your word. We have heard a rather well-founded explanation from the SLS. The proposal for a law includes virtually one amendment, providing a legal basis for a one-year presentation of the deadlines of the established cadastral income identification system adopted last year. Thus, according to the proposal, the first determination of the cadastral income and the flat-rate assessment of the income per post is carried out from 2012 in 2013. It is also specified in more detail that both cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment should be determined for the first time by the new methodology by 30 June 2013 at the latest. This lays down the basis for providing data on cadastral income and a flat-rate assessment of the income on the stump for the determination of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities for 2013. As a reason for the postponement of the deadline, the proposer indicated the inability to establish an appropriate service in order to limit the financial resources of the budgetary expenditure. For this reason, no task shall be carried out to improve the positional accuracy of the Earth's cadastral and to link the records of the more detailed actual use of agricultural land with the Earth's cadastral, which is the basis for the development of a new and certainly fair system to identify cadastral income. The postponement of the deadline for one year for the DeSUS Group is not problematic. The proposal was substantiated by the applicant and we will therefore unanimously support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President.Dear Members, honourable Members, all a good day! Also to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about amending the Cadastrian Income Law, we may feel embarrassed. This was last updated in February last year. The new amendment to the law of ZUKD/1 introduced a new system to identify cadastral income related to agricultural land data, to the creditworthiness of these lands, to the information on the more detailed actual use of land and so on. An appropriate database should therefore be established. Last year's News of the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act assigned the tasks of determining cadastral income to the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia as the service that would most easily establish the necessary records of agricultural and forest land on existing legal bases and, by linking knowledge from mass valuation, develop a modern system to identify cadastral income. The Geodetic Authority has failed to carry out its tasks within the expected deadlines. Among other things, data on the terrestrial disaster should also be updated accordingly. As this has not been done either, we note that the transition to a new model for determining cadastral income is simply not possible. In other words, the conditions for the implementation of Articles 14 and 15 of last year's novelty of the law are not met. Article 14 provides, "The Government shall, on the basis of a proposal for cadastral income scales and a proposal for a flat-rate assessment of income per rod prepared by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia in agreement with the Ministry responsible for agriculture and the Ministry responsible for finance, determine for the first time the cadastral income and the flat-rate assessment of income per rod under this Act by 30 June 2012 at the latest". Here it must be made clear that the amendment of the law that we are considering, which extends the deadlines for the implementation of the law, is a new methodology for determining cadastral income, is not as innocent as it seems, as it should be made clear that the extension of the enforcement deadlines is necessary only because someone has not done his job. For us in the new Slovenia this is not acceptable and one who has not done his tasks deserves public criticism. It would not be fair to point to the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. It is necessary to point out the non-consistency of the previous government, which adopted the February 2011 law, but did not provide adequate funding for the implementation of the tasks. That is why today we will be forced to adopt a proposed amendment to the law, which will postpone the implementation of the new cadastral income system for one year, that is from 30 June this year to 30 June 2013. This gives us the time needed to develop a new model for the identification of cadastral income. However, for 2012, it is necessary to provide further for the cadastral income for the income assessment to be fixed at the amount of land allocated for 2011. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that the current government is more responsible for the implementation of legislation, as it will be necessary to carry out all the tasks to be performed so that the system of new ways of determining cadastral income can be revived from 30 June 2013, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, namely, the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, will provide EUR 3.7 million by 2015. The funds for 2012 are already provided by the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already been adopted by the National Assembly. The New Slovenia Group will support the Law on Amendments to the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you. The proposal for a law postpones this period of one year for the establishment of a new system for the identification of cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates. The new date is therefore 30 June 2013. This lays down the basis for providing data on cadastral income necessary to determine the income from basic agricultural and forestry activities for 2013. I repeat, 2013. For 2012 – this would be of particular interest to the debtors at the moment – the cadastral income as attributed to the agricultural and forestry parcels, the land cadastral according to their cadastral culture and the cadastral class on 30 June 2011. Or else. For 2012, the assumption on the unaltered status of parcels, i.e. for divisions, parcel mergers, takes into account the same cadastral income as for 2011. The apparent failure, because it is not a problem of the type of university, is due to the alleged lack of financial resources, which prevented the Geodetic Authority from establishing the necessary records of agricultural and forestry land. Without detailed and precise information, no taxation, except criminal, is possible, which in other words means that we are in a delicate, illegal situation and that we are massaging the legal void with the proposed law. In doing so, we hope that this time the funds in the budget are provided, even because I and there are aware that many problems of data collection are hidden or also poorly concealed interests of individual groups. Even so that the interests of this time are not stronger than the law, we will support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u14	Once again, thank you all for saying good-bye and thank you. The current Cadastrian Income Identification Act provides that the cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment of the hive shall be determined for the first time on a new basis no later than 30. 6. 2012. Thus, the cadastral income for all agricultural and forest land and the new assessment of flat-rate income on the stump could be applied to income and the determination of other obligations and rights under this Title no later than 30. 6. 2012 and already for the 2012 income assessment. The new basis for the determination of cadastral income should be prepared by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and no additional resources were granted in 2011 for the development of the new cadastral income system, which is why the new cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on the line can not be established as of 30 June 2012, which means that this data can also be used for income. However, the previous system for determining cadastral income is no longer in force and the deadline for its use has also expired. Thus, without the adoption of these proposed amendments to the law on 30 June, they would be in an illegal state and without a legal basis to determine the cadastral income for 2012, which is required as a data to determine the incomes of private agricultural activities for 2012. The proposed Act on Amendments to the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act puts into effect a new system for the determination of cadastral income from 30 June 2012 on 30 June 2013 and, consequently, a transitional period for the determination of cadastral income for non-land land under permanent plantings is to be postponed for one year. The purpose of the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law is to provide a legal basis for the one-year extension of the deadline for the implementation of the new system for the determination of cadastral income, the continuity of the system and the use of data on cadastral income, and the flat-rate assessment of income on board for various public purposes. Thus, cadastral income for 2012 is considered to be catastrotic income as prescribed by the land for 2011. In view of the above, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u15	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u16	Respected and respected! At the time of the previous government, a new cadastral income identification system has been introduced, allowing for the parallel monitoring of significant changes in agricultural income levels, taking due account of the significant technological and economic changes affecting the level of income. Under the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, the new system will assess as realistically as possible the potential income of agricultural and forestry activities related to the use of agricultural and forestry land, taking into account real economic and technological constraints. Nevertheless, we agree that it makes sense, given the fact that someone in the country has not done their job, and I see that we agree in this respect at all levels of this assembly, to duly suspend the application of the new system, which will implement the classification of agricultural land in two basic categories, agricultural and forest land, and introduce a credit rating of land, so that we reach a comparable system at the level of the whole country to determine the real basis of economic income that can be ensured by processing a particular type of agricultural or forestry land. We therefore agree to postpone the deadline for the full implementation of the new system, which is why the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette of Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u18	The proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law, which we are considering today, is only one year away from implementing a new method for determining cadastral income. Therefore, the content itself does not change. Members of the National Gazette will support changes in the law, as otherwise a legal gap will arise to determine the cadastral income for 2012. At the same time, we stress in the National Gazette that the new methodology for calculating the cadastral income provided for in the new law adopted in February 2011 is necessary as the previous one has proved obsolete and non-operational. The calculations of the cadastral income that are still in use today do not, however, reflect any real relations in the incomes of agricultural activities. In addition, the Real Estate Registration Act in 2011 abolished the management of data on cadastral culture and class, which were the basic data for the calculation of cadastral income. The system of calculation under the new law is linked to new data on agricultural and forest land, namely land ratings and information on the actual use of agricultural land. The establishment of this new database on more detailed actual use in the Earth disaster and more detailed definitions of the new method are the most demanding tasks to be carried out by the Geodetic Authority in order to enable the system to be operational. Although this is a complex and demanding project, we propose to the Government in the National Gazette that, at operational level, the tasks imposed by the law should be dealt with as soon as possible as possible, as otherwise, we will continue to extend the deadline for the implementation of the amendments within a year. In the belief that the State authorities will carry out the mandate and tasks related to the implementation of the new method until the deadline set by the amendments to the law today, and in the hope that the updated system for determining this income from agricultural and forestry activities will represent more fairness in the calculation of the cadastral income, we will support the members of the National Gazette of this amendment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled for a meeting of the assembly, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill in the framework of the vote, today, after the end of the 8th point or at the latest at 18.05 or 15 minutes earlier, because we have already gained 15 minutes at this point. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Hipotecar and Communiqué Bonds, summary procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government. For further reasons, I give the floor to Mr Zivkovic, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u20	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The mortgage and utility bond law governs the mortgage and utility bond, the conditions for its issue and the guarantee requirements for it. ZHKO-1 entered into force in February this year, but proposals were adopted in the legislative process which severely restricted the issue of such bonds in practice. The purpose of the short proposal for a law – which changes only four articles – is to remedy these shortcomings of the current law so that the issue of both types of bonds in Slovenia will actually come to life. In order to regulate liquidity, banks intend to issue such bonds as soon as possible, so the proposed changes relate mainly to existing bank credit contracts, with a view to maximising their inclusion in assets. The draft law extends the period of payment of the guarantee claim for loans with the obligation of public law persons from 5 working days to 10 working days. The text of most of the existing guarantee contracts is, in terms of compliance with the conditions for the inclusion of claims from such credits in critical assets, inappropriate for the issue of municipal bonds. The proposal for a law shall continue to be in line with international standards for value assessment 2011. The terminologically agreed requirement is that, in the case of a mortgage credit claim, the borrower must secure the property on the property that is placed in mortgage credit insurance. It is further proposed to delete the limitation of the remuneration for early repayment of loans in credit contracts that may be included in the assets of mortgage bonds. The limits of such compensation to banks are not subject to the regulation of the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act. They're different in other laws. Furthermore, the bill amends the provision concerning the right of recovery by the debtor. A debtor or a marriage may be determined in a cover contract by which claims on the issuer will be reimbursed. However, if the debtor or the marriage of the claim entered in the critical register expressly waives the right to a unilateral netting, it shall not be able to meet its obligations under such a claim against the issuer. Dear Members and Members, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed text of the Law amending the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the word mag. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 4th session. 5. 2012 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, the reduced procedure, EPA 280, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 15th session. 5. 2012 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has no comments. No amendments were tabled to the proposed law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and representatives of the Association of Banks of Slovenia attended the meetings. In the introductory supplement, the explanation of the articles was given by the Minister, as a representative of the bill's proposer, to give a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. He said that the aim of the law is to regulate the area of mortgage and municipal bonds legally so that the issue of those bonds in Slovenia will actually come to life. The changes introduced in the law do not increase the risks of mortgage and utility bond holders, which constitute securities of very high credit quality. This is a simplification of the solutions for issuing these types of securities. Amendments to the draft law on the working body were not adopted and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, a reduced procedure, should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the DeSuS Group, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. The position of the DeSUS Group is as follows. Despite the adoption of the new Law on Mortgage and Municipal Obligations in February this year, there are still certain restrictions that do not allow mortgage and municipal bonds to be issued in practice. Therefore, some of the necessary amendments to the law have been made in this proposal, which we have heard in explanation, to facilitate the issuance of both types of bonds to our banks and thus to simplify the acquisition of long-term funding sources in international financial markets. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the difficulties in the banking sector and believe that it is important that the country responds with appropriate measures and provides banks with favourable funding resources. The banks themselves support the proposed solutions. Members and Members of the DeSUS will also support the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How nice to say hello to everyone again! Although the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act was recently amended and published in the Official Journal. 10/12, further amendments to the law are needed in order to make this definitive in practice and that we can actually record the effects of this law. In the circumstances in which our banking or public financial system is located, but not only ours, but also the global one, the mortgage and utility bond is the one that can significantly improve the position of the banking system, especially since the Slovenian banking system is currently in a situation of falling to an extraordinary level of liabilities in 2012, it is 4.3 billion liabilities that will have to be paid, which means that refinancing will be necessary. Given the situation in the financial markets, this refinancing can be extremely costly, resulting in extremely expensive loans or even a further reduction in credit activity, which is still relatively modest by the Slovenian banking system. The final revitalisation of the mortgage and municipal bond law will allow the banking system to refinance its liabilities on international markets with relatively introductory loans. Covered bonds are also very important in the world. Debt with them is a relatively cheap source of funding, which is currently the only real option since there is still a demand for such a type of bond. Banks will acquire long-term funding resources with a relatively low interest rate. This amendment to the law means one of the government measures prepared in the package of the legislative package of 16 laws to promote economic growth. Certainly, economic growth cannot be without greater credit and credit crunch release. This objective will be assisted by this amendment of this law. Members of the New Slovenia Group will therefore support the Law on Amendments to the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u28	Your Honor! In early 2012, in January, after many failed attempts to revive the old law on covered bonds, a new one was adopted. The reasons were well-founded at the time, and I think we all supported him without any particular concerns at that time. After a few months, we are correcting it in those parts, because according to experts there are still some imperfections and unnecessary restrictions. Immediate intervention is required. Covered bonds can generally improve the position of the banking system. More importantly, it is expected to increase the credit for an activity that is now absolutely not meeting the needs of the economy. At the same time, institutional investors, such as insurance companies, pension funds, see in covered bonds an opportunity for safe investments. These few important good promises tell us that dealing with mortgage and utility bonds is not random and it can also be no coincidence that, in general, surprises do not appear in the financial market. Therefore, it is in itself that a number of questions need to be answered. In principle, they shall be released by the proposer in writing for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. Those answers, Your Honor, they're not, at least not all of them, but it would be good if they were. Supposedly the most favourable debt paper, if any is in today's situation and the time of that definition actually fits, unfortunately it doesn't work for us. Where is he stuck, what is hidden from his eyes, and what is hidden from his behavior? But that's a big problem. It is so large that it is not possible to simply cite the very good experiences of developed countries, but of their own nothing because they are not there. If I believe so, we do not have a developed and active and responsible financial or banking system, and this is a reason for very, very serious concern, especially for the economy. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we expect the government to report regularly to this assembly on the state, changes and reasons associated with the operation of so-called covered bonds. Not so many times with the repairs of the law, but with the numbers, the results, we finally know why we're going to press the "for" button today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u30	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The amendment of the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond is one of the packages of 16 laws prepared by the Government for the Revitalisation and Promotion of Economic Growth. We all know that until now the issue of utility and mortgage bonds has not come to life. By amending this law, we estimate that this is one of the manoeuvres that will allow liquidity contractions and non-credit in Slovenia to revive. Because of all these matters, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u32	Your Honor! For a long time, social democrats have been pointing out the problem of the high indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, which is a key development problem and a key development barrier for Slovenia at the moment, and of course the capital inadequacy of the banking and financial system. In this respect, we have already tried to amend the Law on Municipal and Mortgage Bonds by amending our government to ensure that this form of borrowing of banks and savings banks becomes more effective. Unfortunately, for a number of operational reasons, this has failed so far, and let us hope that the Government will succeed in this attempt to remove unnecessary obstacles that the Institute of Municipal and Mortgage Bonds and its development is hampering. In this respect, of course, it is extremely important to look at data showing that this form of debt with covered bonds is significantly cheaper, and in the current difficult situation in the financial markets, the only possibility is that there is still sufficient demand for covered bonds. Given the current situation in the financial markets, their importance is expected to be strengthened in the future. In 2009, the share of mortgage and utility bonds issued in the developed countries was 17% and 33% in 2010 and in the first seven months of 2011, as far as we have data, was already 40%. In doing so, it is important to pay very close attention to the situation in the Slovenian banking area, where deposits are obviously insufficient to finance existing bank liabilities, the situation between deposits and loans has thus decreased to 1:1.5. This means that banks are to a large extent obliged to borrow expensive loans abroad in order to service their obligations, so they are indebted to the international interbank area. According to Banka Slovenije, the bank's total exposure to foreign assets of up to EUR 15 billion, which means that this amount will also have to be refinanced in the future. Already in 2012, this year, €4.3 billion of bank commitments will fall to foreign funding sources, representing 32% of all commitments. Therefore, it is all the more important that banks receive favourable sources of mortgage bonds financing. The expensive funding due to the country's declining creditworthiness and the collapse of bank credit crunches, and this instrument can make it easier for banks to provide more favourable sources of funding and thus provide more favourable conditions for the financing of credit crunch companies. For all of this, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Obligations in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u34	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Capital in the form of money drives the world economy and provides goods to individuals and business entities. Without money it is not possible to make investments and they are essential for continuous growth and development, even to the extent necessary to ensure existential needs. A healthy and competitive supply of funds must be taken care of by the legislator with an appropriate legal framework favourable to the supply and demand of funds. This framework also includes the legal arrangements for mortgage and utility bonds, which are considered among financial instruments that indirectly promote investment. Due to the good relationship between profitability and security, mortgage bonds are primarily attractive to institutional investors, such as insurance companies and funds. In Slovenia, however, the issue of mortgage and utility bonds in practice has not yet come to life, despite the amendment of the law that we have already adopted this February, precisely in order to facilitate the issuance of these bonds. The novel, which we are considering today, is mainly about taking into account the comments and opinions made by banks, the Association of Banks and the Bank of Slovenia. The main changes make it easier to issue mortgage bonds in practice, which the Association of Banks believes will help banks acquire long-term resources and improve the situation in the banking system. This year, Slovenia owes itself mainly to its expensive foreign resources, which, on the one hand, reduces already the modest liquidity of the Slovenian financial market and will gradually increase the need for refinancing due to short-term debt. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that the bank spasm must be effectively eliminated as soon as possible and that measures to reduce the debt of the economy should be put in place immediately. The adoption of the proposed solutions is therefore urgently needed and we will therefore support the draft law in the Civil Gazette. It is worth noting, however, that the bank spasm we are witnessing today has caused very irresponsible banks with poorly secured loans. With all the austerity measures felt by our citizens, it is right that banks or their leaders take the most important decisions with greater responsibility not to repeat mistakes, such as the slow action of banks towards laters, the underactive role of rescuing businesses and the excessive opacity of bad loans, which led to this bank collapse. We are also calling on the Government to take the most decisive action and find the most appropriate solutions for the resolution of the banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u36	Good afternoon and welcome! Your Honor, it's been less than five months since we passed the new mortgage and utility bond law. The then Minister of Finance has explained to us Members how they have finally prepared the conditions for the issuance of such financial documents. More. The Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia, in some way, confirmed the proposal that the law has also been properly aligned with the amendments on the labour market, In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not oppose this law because we support the possibility of issuing these bonds as an additional funding option for the currently poor Slovenian banks. However, we cannot help but wonder how it could have happened months ago that we had unanimously adopted a law that we find necessary to correct technically. It is difficult to say in this place that there is guilt in Members, because in this case we have entrusted the profession which, according to all the criteria, has considered the law appropriate, and this assessment has obviously been quite superficial. Sadly, though, we have lost five months of precious time again, while we know exactly what the financial or banking system is like. This law, however, allows one of the basic and generally established financing methods through covered bonds, which, due to the secured structure of the instrument, represents a significantly more favourable source of funding for Slovenian banks. The international financial markets currently have an extremely unfavourable situation for obtaining fresh money, so any alternative is of course welcome. This, of course, will not miraculously solve the financial situation of Slovenian banks at a given time, but we can hope that such bonds will be an important part of the mosaic of raising the capital adequacy of the Slovenian banking system. At the same time, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we repeat that today we are really solving the situation in Slovenia's largest banks, but at the same time we will not stop looking for answers to some questions from the past that have remained unanswered. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is aware that the global economic and financial crisis is only to a lesser extent responsible for the catastrophic situation in the balance sheets of Slovenian banks. But there is much more to the problem of irresponsible business, a very uncritical risk assessment, and above all the negligence of leading bankers, who should also take responsibility for poor work. Without clearing up certain issues or even individual credit transactions, it will be difficult to put in place good practice for the future. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support changes to the law. This time we express the hope that the legal basis for issuing such bonds is finally appropriate for banks to use this financial instrument as soon as possible, to acquire fresh capital and to improve or accelerate the part of their business, which is still important at this time, to credit the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body to the draft law, it has not been possible to make an application for a meeting of the amendment assembly, so we are concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th point, it is said that no later than about half six o'clock this afternoon. I'm breaking this agenda. And we're going to move on to 5. At the time of the day, this is the defence proposal of the law on amendments and amendments to the law on the state prosecution, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I welcome the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, and also give him the floor to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. So here is the first novel of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Why did I say it first? For a fundamental reason, because we are only dealing with some technical issues, while we are preparing a slightly more substantive amendment to the law for the fall. What are these technical solutions that we are trying to settle in this law? Mainly due to the transition of the State Prosecutor's Office from the judiciary to the internal ministry. We hereby end the mandatory consultations of the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office with the College of the State Prosecutor in the process of drawing up the opinion of the Head of the State Prosecutor on the appropriateness of the applicant for the Prosecutor. In short, we take responsibility for the heads of the prosecution's organization to a greater extent because we believe - and we agree with that in the prosecution's organisation - that the proceedings will run faster. It's the other way around. The legal basis for the issuance of the rules on scholarships is transmitted to the Ministry of the Interior. However, we have found one solution to the education and training of prosecutors. There is a relatively large mix with the judiciary, and we have estimated that it is good and wise to keep education at the Centre for Education in Justice, and the club will, of course, have the substantive and necessary impact on education in the interior ministry. Fourthly, we regulate the award of awards to state prosecutors. Fifthly, we propose the possibility of assigning a state prosecutor to the Ministry of Justice, not only in the internal affairs of justice and public administration, because we feel that this is necessary from the point of view of criminal law, from the point of view of criminal law, and that prosecutors have a role to play and it is right that they are also assisting the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration. Perhaps, however, the most exposed in the public was that change, which is in some ways the most natural and normal, which is that state prosecutors can also become officials, says ministers of state and that they have the right to return to the prosecutor's office. In this regard, see, such a solution applies to all of us who have been elected to the National Assembly, i.e. to ministers, to other officials, to have the right to return to their old job if such a job exists. Prosecutors have been deprived of this and we propose this in a way that they can become secretaries of state anywhere in the government system and that they have the right to return and not only to the Home Ministry. In short, this right is given to all about 180 state prosecutors. Seems normal to me. In the previous term, the situation was slightly different. As you know, the law literally deleted the post of Secretary of the State Prosecutor's Office, purposefully because my predecessor wanted to get rid of certain persons, he wrote down different conditions and this person was then Mr Škrlec, which I do not think is appropriate. I think what is proposed here is appropriate for all prosecutors. At the same time, I can also reject those suggestions that there will be no need to deal with this in the views of the parliamentary groups: Mrs Barbara Brezigar will not go to the cabinet of the President of the Government, so that you can delete that from the reminders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u39	The draft law was considered to be the working body of the Committee on the Interior. In order to present the report of the Committee, I now give the floor to Mrs Maša Kociper, President of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u40	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Home Affairs shall be held at its second meeting following a reduced procedure. 5. examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Representative of the proposed State Secretary to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Mag. Robert Marolt explained in the supplementary explanation that the proposed law was necessary in order to comply with the amendments of the Government Act and the Law on State Administration, with which the State Prosecutor's Office was placed in the Ministry of the Interior. The law also introduces some other amendments to the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Act, which have in practice proved unclear, inappropriate and flawed. Since the basic solutions in the law have already been repeated by a representative of the Government, says Mr Minister, I would not be repeating myself here. I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who, in a written opinion, made a comment on the final provision of the bill, which provides for the implementation of the bill the following day following its publication in the Official Journal, which constitutes a derogation from the 15-day deadline. The President of the Commission of the Council of State has upheld the law. In the course of the debate, the individual members partly supported the bill and partly rejected the opposition members' opposition to the bill, as they opposed the incorporation of the State Prosecutor's Office into the Ministry of Internal Affairs' labour area when the Government Act and the State Prosecutor's Office Act were adopted. As legal and systemic concerns have also been expressed by experts, a constitutional assessment has been proposed by the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, as you know. Members of the SDS Group have announced their support for the bill since, in addition to aligning with the novels, the SDS considers that there are some minor changes that address the shortcomings highlighted in practice by prosecutors. The opposition Members also expressed some concrete concerns about the proposed solutions, namely the abolition of the compulsory consultation of the Head of the State Prosecutor with the College of Employment, since the opinion on the suitability of candidates will be drawn up exclusively by the Head without consulting the other Prosecutors. With regard to the education of prosecutors, however, it seemed to them that the Minister would now give an opinion on the appropriateness of the educational programmes for prosecutors, which are being prepared for management functions. Secretary of State mag. In response, Marolt pointed out that the provision on compulsory consultation of procedures was designed to address unnecessary burdens on state prosecutors, while at the same time allowing for a rapid response by the leader in the performance of the management function. With regard to the implementation of education for prosecutors, he explained that it remains within the competence of the Centre for Education in Justice, at least in the majority, and the Minister's consent to the education programme is limited only to the education of managers, as it is based on the concept of his powers. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has therefore voted on all the proposed articles of the Law and the National Assembly to propose that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much for presenting the committee report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u42	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. We will decide on the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is of a content of a co-ordination nature, regarding the transfer of the State Prosecutor's Office from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of the Interior. The Law also abolishes the compulsory consultation of the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office with the College of the State Prosecutor on all new employment. The decision on new employment falls within the competence of the heads of the Public Prosecutor's Office and must be left to the management of the Authority as a typical management function. In this way, public prosecutors are burdened with unnecessary work in the field of human resources cases. New Slovenia expects state prosecutors to focus all their energy and knowledge on their basic mission, namely prosecution, particularly in the field of economic crime and corruption. According to New Slovenia's assessment, the State Prosecutor's Office in this field has not been active enough and has not been successful enough to date. With the establishment of the National Investigation Office, a major shift has been made in the detection and investigation of such crimes, and the successful prosecution requires the participation of all authorities involved in the detection, investigation and prosecution. This cooperation will need to be strengthened in the future. The annual report on the work of the National Investigation Office for 2011 follows, I quote, 'cooperation with the State Prosecutor's Office was good in 2011, but there was still a high level of burden on state prosecutors with a large amount of their work. As a result, in individual cases of directing specific investigations has been reduced or carried out to a lesser extent or with a delay. In order to successfully investigate the most demanding forms of economic crime, cooperation, active cooperation between the State Prosecutor's Office and the Police and the in-depth direction of forecasting procedures is key," the end of the quote. We have high expectations for the newly established specialized State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which has adequately trained and experienced prosecutors to deal with the most serious crimes. The effective prosecution of crimes and the construction of the rule of law is the expectation not only of politics but also of citizens and citizens. The fact is that a number of criminal proceedings do not occur in court epilogues. In the presentation of the annual reports of the various authorities, we hear that the reason for this failure is once another institution, and the final result is that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes remain unpunished. It will be necessary to ensure the proper cooperation of all institutions and to establish an appropriate system of responsibility for the performance of the work. This amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office constitutes a legislative basis for a more effective work of the State Prosecutor's Office, so Members of the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Maša Kociper. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u44	Say good-bye again! In Positive Slovenia, of course, we cannot support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The law itself is not comprehensive and does not introduce any more important solutions, nor is it any of the solutions that the colleague spoke of in terms of a more effective prosecution of crimes and a more effective functioning of the prosecution, but rather introduces some formal solutions in terms of compliance with the Government Act and the State Administration Act. After all, it is the enforcement of these laws, which we in Positive Slovenia believe have contributed to the inappropriate transfer of the State Prosecutor's Office from the Ministry of Justice under the Ministry of Home Affairs and that is why we cannot support this law. The reasons why not, we have already repeated so many times that I do not think that this is necessary and will also be demonstrated by the judgement before the Constitutional Court. The law, although not extensive, is also opposed for some of the substantive reasons that have been presented several times, so I would simply repeat them briefly. This is in particular the abolition of the obligation to consult the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the College of the State Prosecutor in the process of drawing up an opinion on the suitability of candidates for state prosecutors. The government justifies that it is a matter of burdening state prosecutors, and we believe that short consultation at the college on who are the most suitable candidates, where it is possible to confront different opinions and different aspects of the knowledge of these candidates, is certainly something that can contribute to the quality of decision-making and does not in any way burden prosecutors more than that advice on this particular issue. We are particularly concerned about the obligation to obtain the Minister's consent on the content of the public prosecutor's education and training programme for management functions. In these times, we feel that such a course is inappropriate. I thank the Minister for dispeling the doubts raised by the media that this change should be intended, in particular, for the employment of a certain state prosecutor in the cabinet of the President of the Government. We think it would be really rude for us to solve the situation of a politically favored person in this country by adopting law. That would be rude, and it would mean the height of customerism. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore expect and want all changes in the prosecutor's legislation to be prepared on professional grounds, to be based on appropriate analysis of the situation and to pursue clearly defined objectives, namely the more effective implementation of the basic function of prosecutors, the exercise of the criminal prosecution function and the prosecution of offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposed amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as it is a matter of consistency with the Government Act and the Law on State Administration. In addition, the proposed changes are a result of past experience in the application of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. These are corrections to articles that have proved unclear and unusable. We believe that optimisation of the Public Prosecutor's Act is important for the efficient work of state prosecutors, as it eliminates some of the so far mandatory but non-productive consultations between the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office and the College of the State Prosecutor's Office. There is also a need for clear provisions on the cases of the standstill of the state prosecutor's office, as provided for in Article 46 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, and for more clarity on the grant of state prosecutors. The amendment also allows for the appointment of a state prosecutor to the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, if necessary for the preparation of legislation in the field of criminal law. This enables the rational use of knowledge within the state apparatus and reduces the cost of functioning the country. In fact, the amendment of the law on minor amendments to the adopted law on the State Prosecutor's Office last year is an aprioral objection to these changes by the opposition, even though some amendments are proposed by the prosecution. In fact, the political interest of certain parties for the ineffective functioning of the prosecution has been exposed to the Committee. We therefore regret that the report by the chairman of the committee did not cover this. We believe that allowing the conditions for the effective work of state prosecutors should be a common interest of the entire legislative branch of government. In our view, the continued day-to-day action and the gathering of points in the field of justice is the most effective delaying and blocking of prosecutions, in particular in the area of corruption and economic crime. This was also demonstrated by the debate on the competent Committee on Home Affairs when, in the debate, the members of Positive Slovenia even expressed their views, which were close to the demand for a ban on the conduct of a profession, specifically for the State Prosecutor, only because it is in relation to the state official of the current Government and not to the suspects of criminal offences; this would only justify such thinking. It is clear that they are actually disturbed by the prosecution of a crime suspected by politicians of their kind. As we stand in favour of the fully independent work of the state prosecutors in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are so much more surprised by the statement made by the president of the Internal Policy Committee on the pressures against state prosecutors, which are not necessarily direct, as she said. The expressed position that I quote from the magnetogram – I quote, “it is enough for the prosecutor to know what his chief of staff wants. He doesn't have to say anything to him..."The end of the quote – we all have to worry. If a Member coming from the judiciary claims that the prosecutors are looking at the wishes of the Prosecutor-General, the Attorney-General's Attorney-General, in their work and prosecutions, it is alarming and we wonder whether such objections to the prosecution and the courts are really happening. This may explain to us the different speed of processing complaints for different people. Is it true that before marriage all nationals are equal to the requirements of the Constitution? We are in the SDS Group and will continue to strive for the best possible basis for the effective work of the State Prosecutor's Office. The Novel of the State Prosecutor's Office Act is therefore welcome. However, the law will probably need to be improved in the future, as the Attorney-General, as far as we know, has not yet made comments and proposals to improve the applicable so-called Zalar Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u47	Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office stated, as the main objective of the bill, compliance with the amendment of the Law on State Administration. He argued, however, that the principles of the draft law do not deviate from the basic principles of the Public Prosecutor's Act. So many introductory words as to who thinks of this novel if the novel is opposed to it. What has been described as the basic objective of the bill is why Members and Members of the Social Democrats will oppose the amendment of the law. We have repeatedly explained that we oppose the transfer of the State Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and therefore we have also opposed the Law on State Administration. And there's a rabbit in that bush. That is why we are also opposed to this novel. However, the novelty, interestingly, also solves some things that are supposed to be either unclear or hinder the work of the prosecution. If the consultation of the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the College is discontinued in some human resources cases, one would consider the resolution or adoption and decision-making of personnel to be a daily prosecutor's function. Given the number of prosecutors, I'm pretty sure that's not the case. Therefore, we cannot defend the abolition of consultation with the College as a substantial facilitation of procedures and labour cuts, but it is a process of concentration of power in the hands of a leading man. I will not deal with the statements of some minor changes other than those on the award of awards and awards, but an interesting change which speaks of education and education in the judiciary is left to the centre of justice. This cannot be opposed, but it is interesting that there is also education and training that can be carried out within the Ministry of the Interior. However, it should also be said that the Centre for Education in Justice must obtain the prior agreement of the Minister for Home Affairs on matters of organisation and determination of content, i.e. the determination of the content of the training programme of the Heads of State Prosecutor's Office. Education is, therefore, subject to the Minister's interference in substantive terms, because it gives consent to the course and content of education. Here it points out that in its reply, the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, at the end of March this year, warned and stressed his substantive disagreement with regard to the proposed amendments to education, which, unlike judicial education, would take place in the express agreement of the Minister of the Interior. Therefore, it is not possible to speak about the fact that certain powers do not move from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of the Interior. And that is what the Social Democrats are opposed to and why the proposed amendment to the law cannot be supported. It is therefore not a matter of purely superficial coordination with the Law on State Administration, but it is a gradual transfer, a direct transfer to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but we advocate the full independence of the State Prosecutor's Office as a separate branch in the judiciary. How this transmission is threatened, but we have already said many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u50	Dear President, colleagues, fellow Secretary! With the entry into force of the Law on State Administration on 4 February 2012, part of the Ministry of Justice's work area relating to the organisation and status of the State Prosecutor's Office and the supervision of its work has been transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. After reviewing the proposed amendments, we note that they relate to the arrangements for the standstill of the prosecutor's office in case of election or appointment to another function, to the grounds for issuing a sub-legislative grant provision, to clarify that, in the event of a stay of office, there is no grounds for termination of the function due to non-compatibilities, to the delegation of competences for the administration of the examination from the knowledge of the State Prosecutor's Office, to the determination of the Minister's agreement on the implementation of the education and professional training of the public prosecutors at the Centre for Education in Justice and to the delegation of powers to grant recognitions. It is also proposed to delete a legally binding consultation between the Head of Public Prosecutions and all state prosecutors in the process of drawing up a reasoned opinion by the Head of the State Prosecutor, which needlessly burdens state prosecutors with tasks which do not judge or refer to the content of their work, which is well accepted among prosecutors. The proposed amendments focus mainly on the question of the transfer of powers between ministries and thus do not refer in any way to the operation of state prosecutors. In the light of the operational provision of the law enforcement function, which is the basic function of the State Prosecutor's Office, the proposed changes to the home are completely irrelevant and, in the light of the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office, necessary. The Civil Code will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Ms Jasmina Opec will present her position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, and everyone's very welcome! The proposal for a law is to comply with the Government Act, the State Administration Act, by which the State Prosecutor's Office was placed under the Ministry of the Interior. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have not even dealt with the transfer as much as we have with the fact that something needs to be done in the area of backlogs and failed judicial proceedings. And if the transfer of the Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior will help to improve the current situation, then we are certainly in the Slovenian People's Party for sure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore support the proposed solution to transfer the State Prosecutor's Office under the auspices of the internal ministry. If we can even say under the auspices of the State Prosecutor's Office, it is an independent institution that must follow only the rules of its profession. At the same time, we are counting on better coordination and cooperation between the police and the prosecution. The bill also introduces some amendments to the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Act, which have in practice proved unclear, inappropriate or inadequacy, such as eliminating the compulsory consultation of the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the College of the State Prosecutor in the process of drawing up a reasoned opinion by the Head on the suitability of candidates for state prosecutors, as this task needlessly burdens state prosecutors with tasks that do not fall within their work and prevents the leader from responding quickly to this so-called management task. It is also proposed that the education and professional training of state prosecutors continue to be carried out by the Centre for Judicial Education, with the prior agreement of the Minister of Home Affairs on the implementation of the organisation and the establishment of the content of the training programme for the management function. Individual education and training of state prosecutors will also be possible within the Ministry of the Interior. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe it is also appropriate to support the provisions on the retirement and termination of the post of Attorney General in the event that the Attorney General becomes a second office, so we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Ivan Hršak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman! Good-bye, everybody! Let us present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The proposal for this novel does not contain any major or more complex changes. It is understandable that the transfer of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior requires changes in the way that the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Act are in line with the new Government Act and the State Administration Act. The new provisions of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office will thus lay down the legal basis for the adoption of sub-legislative acts in the field of state prosecutors' scholarships and for the granting of recognitions to prosecutors and public servants of the State Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice. The Continuity of Education and Training of Public Prosecutors and Leaders will also be regulated through the Centre for Judicial Education, and the Minister for Home Affairs will give final agreement on the content of the training programme for leaders. In addition, the field of training and education is further enhanced by the possibility of implementation within the Ministry itself. With these amendments to the law, we agree, of course, in our parliamentary group, and also in the work that eliminates the bureaucratic tasks of the state prosecutors regarding the procedure for drafting an opinion, determining the appropriateness of the individual applicant for the prosecutor. The content of the work of the state prosecutors is difficult enough to participate in the formulation of a reasoned opinion as a completely redundant task. In the context of the improvements to the current law, it is also a good opportunity, according to our assessment, for the state prosecutor to be granted to the Ministry of Justice. This solution is extremely important for the drafting of legislation on criminal law, as the expertise and practice of prosecutors can play an extremely important role here and complement the quality knowledge of other professionals in the field of criminal policy. So most of the changes are more technical in nature and are acceptable as far as DeSUS Group is concerned. There is, however, another substantive amendment to the law through which the possibility of the discharge of the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office is extended in the event of the takeover of the ministerial function or the functions of the Secretary of State for any department. While there have been public concerns about this, after a thorough examination of this change, we have also resolved our doubts in the DeSUS Group, so we also agree on this change. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will welcome this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Dot of the day, that's on 3. On the contrary, a proposal for a law supplementing the law on media within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 36 Members and Members with the first-signed France Jurša. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponents, Mr Franz Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary of state and a co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues! The programme content produced by the media with special significance status is a complement to the public service, which cannot cover all events in Slovenia evenly. Currently, the current legal regime allows for the free hire of broadcasters only for radio programmes with a status of special importance, while for television programmes this right has ceased with the switch to digital broadcasting, which happened at the end of 2010. By moving to digital broadcasting, these media have lost their rights. They were placed in an uneven position because they lost the right at the moment to rent the broadcasters free of charge, which they had at the time of the analogue transmitter. Issuers with a status of special importance gained this status on the basis of programming content and public interest, not due to broadcasting technology. Since the exchange of technology must not be the cause of the loss of rights guaranteed by law, the proposal to supplement the law thus eliminates the inequality in the treatment of the analogue and digital mode of terrestrial broadcasting. The proposed law seeks to eliminate the inequality in the treatment of the analogue and digital mode of terrestrial broadcasting established by the current regime, by introducing this broadcasting, as well as the inequality between radio and television programmes with a status of special importance. This law also follows the European Directive. The new Article 114a therefore allows for unpaid rental of RTV transmitters also for digital broadcasting. After this addition, RTV Slovenia will pay a proportional share of depreciation maintenance costs resulting from the dissemination of multiplex for public broadcasting. The law is in third reading today. I hope that you will confirm it by Members and Members of Parliament. This will allow you to continue the existence of several important media that provide important information to the public about the events of local and regional Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The opinion on the bill was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Her opinion will be delivered by Mr Alexander Zorn, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Dear Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Media is supplemented by the provisions in force in Article 114, which covers the scope of the obligation to disseminate the programmes of operators or so-called must carry. The obligation to extend the programme by operators is governed by the Universal Service and User Rights Directive relating to electronic communications networks and services. In this regard, the Government considers that the regulation in the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Media-B is within the scope of the possibility permitted by the Directive to Member States in its transposition. However, Member States were obliged to transpose the latest amendments to this Directive into their legal order by 25 at the latest. 5. 2011 and, at the latest, within one year of that date, review the transfer obligations. In this context, the Government considers that the regulation in the draft law, which provides for a timely review of the transfer obligation, is welcome. The content of the bill refers to the determination of two obligations imposed by RTV Slovenia as a multiplex operator for public broadcasting, namely, multiplex A, namely: for the first time – the obligation to distribute programmes free of charge with a status of special importance if there are free multiplex A capabilities after its possession with RTV Slovenia. Secondly, the obligation to distribute programmes free of charge to those issuers who are holders of a decision on the allocation of radio frequencies for their own multiplex under the Digital Broadcasting Act. Since the proposed regulation removes inconsistencies in the legal regulation of the status of the programme of particular importance and thus eliminates discrimination between radio and television programmes with a status of special importance, the Government fully supports the proposed regulation in the amendment of the Media-B Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Maja Dimitrovski. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The only objective of the proposed amendment to the Media Act under Article 1 is, as we have heard many times before, the regulation of must carry out, i.e. the terrestrial digital broadcasting of special programme status programmes. This provides for the remuneration of programmes of particular importance when paying for material costs and the free distribution of those programmes that had to be purchased to say their apparatus, i.e. their own multiplex, and broadcast via radiotelevision Slovenia broadcasters. In principle, the solutions brought by the novel are not disputed for programmes of particular importance which do not yet have a regulated funding system in a way that would enable these programmes to function in a stable manner. But I would like to point out that both solutions are very important. What is at stake and what is lacking is every time the opening of a system law to deal with individual problems. Thus, we can probably expect another novel in a short time, which may solve the financing of media content. So once again, we have clear evidence that we need a law that adequately addresses the most pressing issues in the field of media, these are issues of concentration of ownership, the issue of autonomy of journalism, the issue of control and the protection of public interest, and these are topics that we should talk about a lot. Especially now that a new media house is entering the market through a large door, which appears not to make a significant contribution to the pluralisation of the media space, the opposite is the case. However, in the Group of Members, Positive Slovenia will not oppose the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u62	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting on behalf of the SDS Group. Every time we talk about the media, we must be aware that we are also talking at the same time about the realization of constitutional rights; the constitutional right to information, which in practice means that information must be made available to everyone at any moment, on any relevant matter of any area of social life, and this is highlighted by different values of view. Therefore, the media space is extremely important and every media outlet riches it. This is particularly true for Slovenia, which is limited to language, we are talking about language barriers, it is a relatively small media market, and therefore it is so important that new media is established, and so much more important that we maintain the quality we already have. The proposed amendment to the law follows an assessment of the SDS in the right direction. This is said to support, means a positive shift for all those media that meet specific criteria under the Media Act as a medium of particular social importance. This means, in practice, that either they are opening a specific information window for a particular group, for a particular area or on the other hand, that they are particularly rich in information, with different other qualities that the Media Act sets out as a standard for the full fulfilment of this status. In a scratch, this law means the implementation of the European Directive, which in itself is sufficient and an important reason to adopt. However, according to the SDS, it is even more important to contribute to the enrichment of the media space and thus to the elimination of the biggest democratic deficit that Slovenia has. What's the deficit? All media in the developed world in countries with a long-standing democratic tradition operate under the principle of mutual control. This is said when we have a country with a long-standing democracy, with high-quality media, this quality is maintained by itself with a simple principle: if a medium publishes a half-truth or a lie, others are just competing to expose the truth or half-truth. This reduces the credibility of the media, as well as the number of readers, listeners, viewers who move to more credible media. In practice, this mutual control helps to continuously strengthen journalistic ethics, the quality of information and thus the realization of what is also derived from the Slovenian Constitution, the right to comprehensive information of each individual, which is the basis for democracy as such to work. If the field of information does not work as it should, then democracy is always a farce. It is this mutual control of the media itself that makes them highly professional and, on the other hand, also important, a high degree of independence from any current policy. In Slovenia, unfortunately, many times in recent years it has been quite the opposite: if any medium has appeared on a new or just otherwise open up a view, a kind of glance, a valuable, valuable dawn as a matter, it has found many times a group of very loud, influential individuals in the remaining tabulated media and then discredited either the individual as a journalist – for example, one such case is Vinko Vasle – or the medium as a whole and pushed him to the brink to lower his credibility. In practice, then, this mechanism acted in exactly the opposite way – to reduce the quality of journalism, to increase the dependence of journalists themselves on owners, as well as on current policies, as this has always been politically conditioned. That is why, in practice, we are witnessing a situation where, in such a small market, the media market, such as Slovenia, has never fully revived this mechanism. That is why — even since there has been a hint in this hall before — if a new medium emerges, it will lower the quality of the media space. That's an absurd claim! Every medium of Slovenian space is rich and whatever it is. Each opens up a small difference of dawn than, each represents a new opportunity for an individual, for a citizen, for a citizen, for a citizen and for a citizen and for a citizen of Slovenia, to obtain that information, if only he wants to find it, then he creates an autonomous opinion on a problem and to co-form the country in the framework of the democratic procedures and institutions that our country has. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we estimate that the proposal, which thus makes it easier to survive and thus preserve the already achieved quality in the field of media of special social importance in the Slovenian media – in Slovenian, as it were said, a relatively limited market – is a move, a step in the right direction. At the same time, since it also means the implementation of the European Directive, it is also an additional fulfilment of the commitments we have made in the international space. In the SDS, we always agree that the accepted international commitments and promises must be implemented to the best of our ability, while at the same time we expect the strengthening of the media space, including the preservation of media competition, to help strengthen the mechanism of media interaction in the future, to improve the quality of press reporting, the quality of journalistic ethics, the level of journalistic ethics, and, if you like, the general media culture, the mutual conversation, dialogue, the validity of the public discourse, and that this will help gradually to eliminate this democratic deficit in Slovenia, which we are talking about, in the end, the media will be the best critic and best passenger, and that it will all contribute to a greater fulfilment of that fundamental media mission, i.e. the realization of the constitutional right to information. That is why in the SDS Group, this law will be unitedly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! For some time, the media have been dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis, which has severely reduced their revenue on advertising and subscription items, and the behaviour of the right-centre coalition has been accompanied by political uncertainty. We can include a ban on the conclusion of author contracts, which is slightly reduced by the Law on Public Finance Balance, attempts to suspend the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia without any legal basis, the Ministry taking over the role of editing, the communication of unwanted shows and leaders in client papers and tweets. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has further made the operation of the media more difficult by means of a rebalancing which has significantly reduced public funds to support the media and promote audiovisual culture. The media, most of them of particular importance, will receive a third less from the budget this year than originally planned. On the question of how programmes of particular importance in the circumstances described will still be able to carry out their important task, the Government does not yet have an appropriate response. It is clear from the report of the Broadcasting Council that at the end of last year we had eighteen radio and thirteen television programmes of particular importance, i.e. together, thirty-one. The proposed amendment to the Media Law is intended to partially improve the status of the four, which in itself raises the impression that it is too narrow and interesting. We have therefore proposed an amendment in the Group of Social Democrats, which could at least partially mitigate these findings. The amendment was adopted and the amendment of the drafters of the law deleted from the third reading text. In doing so, it should be emphasized that our supplement has nothing to do with the rights to which certain media will be entitled on the basis of this proposal. However, our supplement prevented the possible misuse of the legal text to promote interests which would be contrary to the objectives of the bill. In view of the acute situation in which economic companies and local communities are substantially reducing the costs of advertising and other forms of support, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the professional public, to prepare comprehensive legal solutions in the short term. Finally, it is also bound by the decision of the Committee on Education, Culture, Sport and Youth, adopted at the proposal of the Group of Social Democrats. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia imposes on the preparation of legislative changes which will fully regulate the financing of programmes of particular importance in a way that will enable these programmes to operate in a stable and sustainable manner. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have always expressed special affection for the various texts in the media field when dealing with the programme. We therefore strongly opposed the assessments of their insignificance and the proposals for abrogation. Regardless of our role, we have always taken the view that these programmes, which only provide the necessary quantity and quality of information on developments in the local environment, should be provided with appropriate conditions for their mission to be realized. As we say, we expect this task to be accomplished as soon as possible in dialogue with the professional and interested public and with good intentions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Komar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u66	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! By supplementing Article 114a of the Media Act, the proposed law is intended to regulate the obligation and conditions for the transmission of television and radio programmes with the status of special importance provided by Radiotelevision Slovenia. The aim of the proposed solution is to eliminate the inconsistencies introduced in 2006, which has taken particular importance from broadcasters the right to free use of RTV Slovenia's broadcasting infrastructure. The proposed law seeks to eliminate the inequality in the treatment of the analogue and digital mode of terrestrial broadcasting, which has been established by the current regime through the introduction of must carry broadcasting, as well as the inequality between radio and television programmes with special significance status. In the Civil Gazette, we find it difficult to agree with all the arguments that we hear in support of this bill, especially because the possible failure to adopt this amendment to the law does not endanger pluralism, does not endanger the existence of regional local media and does not take regional news to viewers and viewers. We are surprised that RTV Slovenia has taken such an easy approach to an agreement with the regional televisions involved; an agreement that directly falls into its budget, as these companies owe it some 390 000 euros and have completely ceased paying their obligations in the spring of 2011. In accordance with the cost-effectiveness and prudence of the management of public funds, we cannot agree with such a business decision by RTV Slovenia in this respect. Above all, when studying the proposed amendment 114.a., we were disturbed by the feeling that it was a legal solution aimed at solving some precisely defined companies, which broadcast within their TV programmes the contents of particular importance for the regional environment and feast on the paying multiplex RTV Slovenia. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate laws that will benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not laws that are written on the skin of certain interests. We are aware that the media area is disorderly, changes to the Media Act are necessary, but should be comprehensive and not partial. In view of the media market, we must not forget that there is a need to re-examine with all due care the part of media legislation relating to printed media. Despite the transitional concerns, we have decided to support the amendment of the Media Law because we are aware of the importance of regional and local media and promote their programme diversity. We advocate pluralism and media freedom. We want our citizens and citizens to have more credible and rapid information from the environment in which they live. However, we expect that if the amendment is adopted, RTV Slovenia will demand and receive the debt paid for the past period and the Government will prepare the new media legislation thoroughly and comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, in the second reading of the proposed amendment to the Media Law, we highlighted the view that local and regional media are of particular importance among the important social factors that create a direct link between the public and local communities and thus complement the public service. Those who come from the countryside are still aware of the importance of adequate information for the people, especially the elderly, who do not know how to use modern information tools. Media operating in an area of one or more local communities is therefore important in providing information to the population with information from the local environment and it is therefore essential to maintain and improve their position. As already stated by my predecessors, the proposed law eliminates the inequality between radio and television programmes of particular importance and establishes an arrangement that will allow for the free use of public RTV broadcasters also to television programmes with a status of special importance that broadcasts terrestrial digital. Members of the People's Party estimate that the proposed solutions establish an equal position between radio and television programmes of particular importance. Following the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial broadcasting, television broadcasters had a particular importance to finance the transition to digital broadcasting themselves, which, of course, costed them high, and this led to an interference with already acquired rights, thus establishing inequalities between radio and television media. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are confident that the adoption of the proposed law will improve the situation of local and regional media in particular, and that all problems will not be solved far. The situation on the ground shows that the biggest problem with such media is, above all, their funding by the State, which prevents them from planning programmes for a longer period of time. Therefore, in the Group of the People's Party, we call on the Government, on this occasion, to approach the issue of financing the media as soon as possible and to prepare an amendment to the legislation that will enable them to function in a stable manner. This will benefit all, viewers, listeners, programme makers, and, of course, the country. Despite these concerns, we will, of course, support the proposed law of the People's Party, as well as in all the cases before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! In view of the fact that the third examination of the law, when practically at previous hearings in the National Assembly and at the home labour body, has already been made clear and the substance of the debate has already been exhausted, the DeSUS Group would briefly repeat the basic facts about the law that we will finally vote on. The purpose of the proposed solution in law is to eliminate the inconsistencies introduced in 2006, which has taken particular importance from broadcasters the right to free use of Radiotelevision Slovenia's broadcasting infrastructure. At the time of the transition to digital broadcasting, this actually had negative consequences for the media with special significance status, as they had to deal with funding for the transition to digital broadcasting, which caused them problems and also high costs. The proposed law also takes account of the European Union Directive, eliminates the unequal or discriminatory treatment of the analogue and digital way of terrestrial broadcasting programmes. In the DeSUS Group, we support this amendment of the law because we are convinced that this correction is necessary, for legal reasons, given the current legislation and the actual state of the new TV broadcasting technique. So, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Media Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u72	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have repeatedly stressed that local and regional television and radio stations are very close to us. They bring us news from our environment and care for our better information. National media themselves simply cannot provide all the content that people can listen to or watch through local media. However, as local media are generally small businesses operating in a limited area, it is very difficult to compete with large players on the market. By marketing their advertising space, they are less competitive and difficult to survive. By allowing for unpaid dissemination of content, we will help these programmes to reduce costs and ensure greater plurality and quality of local media over a long period of time. For all of this we will support the proposed amendment of the Media Law in Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, followed by a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožič, prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Mr Ambrožič is not here, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. As I have just said, in Novi Slovenija we advocate that the importance of local media is extremely important for informing citizens and citizens also with the regional programme and I think there is no doubt here. Therefore, once again: we will all — and I myself — uphold this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word goes on, mag. Majda Potter. Please prepare Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u76	He would be naive not to know that politics always prevails after the influence on the media, although all political representatives generally make public assurance of how the media should be independent and how they should not be politically affected. From this point of view, it is also interesting how media legislation is changing in the National Assembly. However, one position in the positions of the Social Democrats is such that it is pointed to. We Social Democrats, regardless of the constellations of forces, have advocated the importance and role of the media in the National Assembly. We have also written in the 2011-2015 electoral programme "for media of particular importance, which prepares and transmits information of a local nature, we will provide a more sustainable and stable source of public funding". We have also done so with a proposal for a special decision on the 2011 report of the Broadcasting Council, and, surprisingly, the Committee has adopted a decision proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a proposal for regulatory changes that will fully regulate the financing of programmes of particular importance in a way that will enable these programmes to operate in a stable and sustainable manner. It is a miracle that, according to the rule of this mandate, nothing proposed by the opposition has been adopted. Well, it is interesting that the amendment with a minimum sentence of the Members and Members present – 3 votes in favour, none against – was also adopted on the Committee's consideration of this law, which then, of course, changed in the plenary session at the second reading. However, that amendment went towards the protection of the public interest, and thus those who would have the benefits of the proposed novel should not sell a share of three years after obtaining such status. Well, this was, of course, excluded from the law, but it is worth noting; in 2006, a similar coalition in law adopted some solutions that were very similar or followed what the Broadcasting Council often wrote in its views. Let us also say that it is necessary to abolish the media of particular importance as an obvious remnant of the past and that the media must also introduce entrepreneurial philosophy into everyday practice and rid themselves of budgetary parasites. Well, as a matter of fact, it's a very interesting thing. I understand that the coalition will support the bill's proposal, just as it supports everything that is put into the legislative procedure by the members of this coalition; that this is a novel submitted by DeSUS; that an important official of this party is also the owner of one of these media; that the fact is known and that this official is a member of the cabinet of the Prime Minister is also a known fact. Thus, it does not appear to be a loss of words that this amendment will actually favour only four media outlets of particular importance, but there are still a few dozen in the display — I think 31. What will be of particular importance to other media is another thing. The ones we are saving today with this novel cover the entire Slovenian media space. So it is also possible to talk about the local aspect in a slightly more restrictive way. Well, anyway, the coalition has agreed on support for this bill, what any of the following proposals for media legislation will bring, seems to wait, but I am hopeful that the public interest of national RTV will be better protected than it is now, I am not promising because we are now giving up what the owners of these media we are saving owe the national information network to say so. Nothing knows what will and will settle these obligations that have arisen since the rejection of the previous media, new media law and so far. The question is, there are many concerns. But that does not mean, once again, that we are Social Democrats against the media of particular importance. We are particularly in favour of these media; it is necessary, even from the point of view of media pluralism, to have a plural media landscape, but how it is done and who it extends, and who it is not, and this is something that I have deep concerns about, and I believe that it is also necessary to pour pure wine in this law and, above all, to ask whether the obligations of the owners of these media to the creators of programming content will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a bill that will eliminate some discrimination over the possibility of broadcasting television and radio programmes by media outlets of particular importance. Speaking of media legislation, what has already been mentioned today must be said that media space is certainly in the interest of this country, this society and democracy as much as possible. This is one of the areas where Slovenian society and the Slovenian state have a democratic deficit. We still don't have one in this country, let's say, or we almost don't have a plural daily paper. As soon as the coalition is replaced, the position We had three journals with the largest load, which were extremely government-driven during the previous government. [[...]] Now we have the same three diaries, which are relatively strongly anti-government. The fact that a diary or a medium is defined as being governmental or oppositional would be good, but with us the media sometimes hides the right face, and that is why today is a time or a long time ago it was time to throw the masks away and put them in the column or give an announcement as to how these media are oriented. Because of this situation, I am surprised that it was here by the largest group of Members – in part, evasive but very clear – that they are afraid of the new television medium, which is preparing to start broadcasting in the fall. In addition, this information programme will make media space, media space quality and plurality worse than ever. I agree that such a claim is absurd, and I do not know what this deterioration could be. Only if it contributes further to the ongoing ongoing unilateral polarisation of the media space. I don't understand either because this company, it is also known, has started this programme, to prepare this broadcast in the time of the previous government. I have no reason not to believe that in the event that the previous government is afraid that there will be a society that will clearly be defined as then anti-government, so as not to prevent such purposes from happening – by personneling, I do not know what they were able to do ideally, the replacements were taking place, while these same media were talking about personnel before, say, five years or I don't know what, but not about current staffing. Yesterday, too, we had clear evidence of how some media sometimes misinterpreted to talk about human resources. Yesterday we saw when we compared the recruitment of two governments, that the replacements were 100% more intense in the time of the previous government. I am sure that these local media – the predecessor – has said that it is mainly the media, which, despite their signal and broadcast throughout Slovenia – and that this allows the free dissemination of these information shows, that it is useful and that all these local media, these others play an enormous role in informing people, contribute greatly to a democratic relationship in society. Since I have a long parliamentary practice, I know how we, as opposition Members and as an opposition party, had to fight for a decade and more for a television programme, a national programme that broadcasts information broadcasts from the field of parliament and other political events. Now these parties, who were the predecessors, for example, the current largest party, because half of the people have already moved into new clothes, new benches, have strongly opposed this programme. They made up piles and piles of reasons: how this will get worse, how people will be burdened when they have to watch it, and it doesn't say anywhere that anyone has to watch, because they can switch to different programs. Mostly, when they had absolute authority in that country, they were against good public information. When this program began to work, although with birth problems, I think it immediately became operational, took off and played its part. I'm just disappointed that it wasn't like it was at the beginning when they actually showed events in this room completely impartially when they were doing summaries. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case today in the summary and in the special broadcasts, this – at this point – is a relatively opposition medium. For example, the last time we spoke to the Committee on Internal Policy was about amending the law on the prosecution. Minor changes, but an important debate has developed. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia was extremely nervous because it was in all the media that week, everywhere, about the complaint that came from the Tax Administration on 6 January to the prosecution regarding their president, tax evasion and so on. They were extremely nervous. In this nervous state, they also brought unheard of, for the democracy of a dangerous idea and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . In this way, it should be strictly prohibited for state prosecutors who are involved in the profession because their relatives or relatives are in the administration of the State, which is a classic ban on the profession, which is infamous, and then it was also directly said by a Member who comes to this assembly from the judiciary and had a special place there to influence the work of prosecutors. It was said that prosecutors already know what the chief of staff likes, how they have to write charges and stuff. But then they didn't show it in a repeat, but they showed the controversy about it and the defense of it. You see, here this medium sometimes fails its mission because it should make an objective contribution. That is why I say, as an example, there is a need for as many media as possible to deal with such inconsistencies or such a change in facts on the other hand, and then people, our citizens, are well informed. Otherwise, they're not well informed. Otherwise, they're not well informed. More than we will have media, more upright journalists, more research journalists, we will be easier to defend the cancer of the wound that is still dangerous in this country – corruption and economic crime that have brought our country to its knees. All we've been doing lately is unacceptable practices that have spread in recent years. That is why we need to adapt legislation so that we can resist this, because we have to defend ourselves because there is nothing more to steal from this country from the budget. Although some may feel that prior thefts need to be legalized. This is why I say again: I will support this law, which gives the local media a slightly better chance of disseminating content that is important to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor. Get Mrs. Maria Plevčak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u80	Dear Members and Members! When we talk about the media today, we have the opportunity to talk about everything that is bothering us in one way or another, what we have in mind and what we wish for. In the National Assembly, as well as in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it would be good to balance the media space in such a way that politics in the media space, in which the state can influence, would not have any effect. That the media, which is created as the media that we mention – and in my opinion they can also be so-called free people – are also the media that should then enter real information. I think we should think about a lot of things on our own and say things about ourselves, like these Internet media and everything else. One of the extremely important questions I think is that we, politicians, talk about the ethics of journalists, but we are not talking about the ethics of us, so-called politicians, political parties – we can also cast if you want – and what we want, what journalists should be like. There's never gonna be a way to write like that, so we all like what the press is writing. That's why they're journalists, and if it weren't for the press, they wouldn't have discovered much. Now that individuals are speaking, let's say what happened in the past, they could sweep through their thresholds and find a lot of what the media have discovered, what the researchers have discovered, and nothing has happened. I'm talking, say, about weapons, about Patricia, if you want, I can talk about TES, and there's something else that's happened in Parliament. That's why I'd say let's sweep the threshold first. When we talk about a new medium that is supposed to bring plurality, better information and more what we need and would like to have, then I don't know if we are all thinking the same or the same medium, a similar medium, or whether we are thinking about what should be done in the future in this media area. Our concern should be, if we have public, state television and if we have another television and if we have more media to support them, how we will ensure normal functioning – that is what Mrs Majda Potata was talking about – and that is, financing and what this economic situation will be. Policy should ensure the independence of the media and should be so highly ethical in itself that the media can write about high-letter policies and that all those who do not belong to politics for such or other reasons should also leave this policy. Information to me also means that we are getting information — for example, at the national level — and that this information is generally very important for citizens and citizens. Of course, it is also information and the media, which do not fully reach the state summit, to the state level and provide information at the local level. It is therefore extremely important that we finance or enable the operation of those local media that are in the interest of local communities, and whoever these local communities are. It is therefore necessary to discuss in a comprehensive manner how to balance this public space or this media space and to enable everyone to function normally. Once again: I think that the strategy should be that when we talk about ethics, we talk about the ethics of us, politicians and Members, and then we can also talk about the ethics of journalists. But I think that journalists should be appreciated, respected; if you don't appreciate another, they won't appreciate you either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, prepare yourself a mag. Jana Jenko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Of course I support the law. Slovenia is, for example, on various scales, on the media, where the media are compared, it usually ranks in a worse place or various reports are problematic to summarize the news, that it is not possible to read another opinion, other comments, that there is little research journalism in Slovenia and so on. Therefore, it is certainly important that we go beyond these things and that we can also read a different opinion. It is important that we relieve or at least relatively burden regional houses or provide regional programmes in this way, including news that are practically not of interest to national media and that we do not see them on these media, from cultural, sports and other events, which are very important for a particular area and it is also right to get their place in the media. Of course, if things aren't published anywhere, then a lot less people know about them. As I say, I will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm opening the application. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. I'm sorry, I repeat my application. I'm asking you to sign up. First, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik is being prepared. Please. Five minutes. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u84	In fact, I applied to allow, I saw a colleague express a desire to debate that this desire would not go wrong. I have already said something about what is going on in the media area, what needs to be changed and where the media sector in Slovenia needs to move, in order to meet democratic standards, to address democratic deficits and that many of our journalists will not have their own built-in self-censorship, as the State Department report on the state of human rights has always noted. You can't be surprised how quickly young journalists find a tendency within themselves to report in accordance with what they promote, I'll say, quasi-levis. It's so much and it's expressed in such a way that those who observe our media space from the outside see it. Self-censorship in journalists, in the media is an extremely dangerous thing, because it is a real picture of what is happening in our country, and it is perplexing our citizens, indoctrination, and indoctrination was the method and weapon of another system, regime, totalitarian system. We have to stand up to that. Where this leads, if produced in some bad form, we had the opportunity to listen a while ago, to watch — the removal of the editor of the multimedia center — on the sidelines. How they organised to discredit him, and unfortunately, in my opinion, relatively young journalists. One even wrote that such people should be killed and thrown into caves. Why the caves? This is probably an association to events 60, 70 years ago when innocent people were thrown into caves, sometimes alive. This is why I repeat: let us do everything in this country to ensure that the media control of power, fair control of the current authority, is fair. When there's another power, too. In this case and with such legislative changes, we will do more for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this law because it provides an opportunity and an opportunity for regional television to be placed equally in this media space, as well as RTV Slovenia, so that people living in such places as Radiotelevision Slovenia does not report on how these people live and work and on their successes have the opportunity to come to this space through these regional televisions or programmes. However, Mr Jerovsk's statements always go in the direction of discredit and that is not good. Comrade Jerovšek, this is not good. You're discrediting young journalists. I don't know why. Perhaps because they have not yet been processed by individual political options or customers. That's not good. That's really not good. Let there be restlessness, fear, fear, fear, fear, and what it says, how it appears. Leave them alone, let people judge their work, not their politics, because if a journalist writes badly, he won't defend himself. So let's let people decide for themselves, not discredit them and talk about them. Stick to this rule: Do not judge that you will not be judged. I think it would be right, especially for you, who are already so bloated and, I would say, a constant in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Please do not mention fellow Members or fellow Members because they cannot replicate you. That is why I cannot give you, Mr Joseph Jerovšek, a replica. This concludes the debate, has been the rest of the time and you do not have a replica, I conclude the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Digital Radiodifusion within the framework of the ordinary procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Žigi Turk, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u88	Mr President! Dear Members and Members! As you know, Slovenia made a transition from ground-level analogue to ground-level digital broadcasting in 2010. A strategy and a law on digital broadcasting were adopted in preparation for the transition. According to them, radiotelevisions of Slovenia were without invitation to tender a frequency allocated for one multiplex, the so-called multiplex A, intended primarily for public television – this is a lecture from the law "mainly public radiotelevision". However, for commercial multiplex B, the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has made a public call. In view of the text of the amended Directives in the field of electronic communications, the provisions of the existing Digital Broadcasting Act in conjunction with the use of multiplex A for commercial purposes are controversial in terms of European Union law. The European Commission has already warned us about this problem, and this can also be followed by a infringement procedure. At the same time, the European Commission is against Slovenia due to the delay in transposition of the amended Directives – pay attention! – from 2009 to domestic legislation already announced – this news came a few days ago – a complaint before the European Court of Justice or before the Court of Justice of the European Union with a proposal for high daily penalties, which is also related to the bill under consideration. The aim of the novel is therefore to harmonise national legislation on digital broadcasting with the Directive on electronic communications, while at the same time improving the clarity of legislation in accordance with the principle of legal certainty with the amendment. It is now clear from the proposal for a new law that the acquisition of frequencies without invitation to tender and their availability can only relate to the transmission of programme content of public interest intended for public broadcasting for the purposes of public service and the transmission of other programmes of particular importance. Only in these cases can media law pursue a public interest that justifies the acquisition of frequencies without a call for tender. Therefore, according to the proposal, the availability of possible free capacities of the first multiplex, multiplex A, will also be possible only within these frameworks. At the same time, the legal novelties are without prejudice to the existing regime whereby public broadcasting on its multiplex, as long as it is the only active, with the geographical coverage of the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia in free capacity, also ensures the transfer of commercial programmes. This option is not terminated by this law. In addition, the legislative proposal was further improved on the committee by adopting the amendment of the coalition. The amended proposal is now fully in line with the Nomotechnical Comment by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. At the same time, the adopted amendment deleted the provision which made it impossible for RTV Slovenia to run for the second multiplex. This restriction is no longer necessary in view of the additional possibility of regulating RTV Slovenia under the amended Law on Electronic Communications. On this point, however, I explain that we explicitly oppose the adoption of the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, because its content is clearly contrary to the purpose of this law, which is contrary to European Union law. Dear Members and Members! The adoption of the proposed legal novelty is urgently needed in order to comply with the European legal order, to further develop digital terrestrial broadcasting in competitive conditions and, last but not least, to ensure plural media space. I therefore suggest that you support the amendment in the existing text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u90	Good-bye to all of you! At its 3rd regular session, on 29 May 2012, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Digital Broadcasting Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the light of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service and in view of the prior coordination that took place within the Ministry as well as the National Assembly, the Committee adopted an amendment to the proposed text of the law allowing, inter alia, RTV Slovenia to participate in a public competition for another multiplex, which has not been possible so far, and thus makes it possible to compete more. On the other hand, with regard to the first multiplex, its capacity is now limited to what is actually in the public interest, namely the transmission of RTV Slovenia itself and the transfer of programmes of particular importance to the Republic of Slovenia under the Media Act. Finally, the harmonised law in the proposed text was unanimously supported by the committee at the meeting and we propose to the National Assembly that the present text also adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held general discussions at its 2nd meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 11 June 2012. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm opening an application for discussion. Please sign up. The minister gets his word any time he raises his hand. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The position of the Group of Social Democrats has not changed since the application for general treatment of the law and we do not support the principle of law. Nevertheless, I find it very interesting to interpret our amendment, which we have tabled, by the Minister, that what we are proposing in the amendment is contrary to the European Union directive. However, if I look at the justifications that were written in the explanatory statement or the explanation of the amendment adopted, I stress that, without discussion, both invited and members of the committee at the meeting of the parent working body, it is possible to read in this explanation that this public service, which is included, is required for reasons of caution. So caution is the one who dictates such a dictatorship. Now it is ours, which refers to Article 15 of the RTV Act and distinguishes between activity and public service, because the concept of activity is broader than public service, but it is supposed to be contrary to the directive. However, the law has been drawn up and is supposed to follow the directive. In any case, the Social Democrats oppose monopolisation, but this law and this amendment have not abolished monopolisation. We believe that whatever happened to one of the commercial companies or televisions in this law was also on our benches, which means that all of the different interests have suddenly become sonic support without commenting to this amendment. Indeed, in the amendment, the paragraph that bothered us most was abolished, and for which we took our stand. In order to delete this paragraph, we considered that because of the fact that it was written as it was in the draft law, it made it impossible for RTV Slovenia to obtain another multiplex on the invitation to tender. And now that this deletion has been added, these restrictions, which have disturbed us, are no longer, and we must say that the government also expects Norkring's multiplex to no longer work and that there will be a new multiplex. However, it can, in practice and not only theoretically, as has been possible so far, run for this invitation to tender also for RTV Slovenia. With regard to this law and this amendment, it would also point out that at this time many debates on media and media developments in the media are also about the establishment of para-state television in Siol, and we are not hiding that we are aware that this is a very ambitious project. As an example, they bought out the rights to transfer the elite league of football champions and spent twice as much money as Pro Plus. The question is whether the project reaches or follows the Siola domain as an internet television provider. The question is how Siol will act in advance and what is likely to happen is that it will also be broadcast by multiplex, which and how, the question is, we will have to wait a little longer, and in particular will have to give an answer to this by the competent ministry. We have not received such a response from the competent Ministry of Justice so far. As it is said, in record time, the amendment was adopted and debated, the second dealt with on the labour market, and media analysts believe that such television, which is in majority private ownership, should also be regulated appropriately. As it is said, the potential solution is to establish a third multiplex, but it should ensure at least minimal competitiveness. In such a case, it should also be broadcast in HD resolution. And this would only justify some conditions and also take up more space on multiplex. The issue of this amendment is certainly more than what Mr Minister has pointed out and why he has so strongly opposed the adoption of our amendment. The questions go beyond strong opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 2? I'm opening the application. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I will not support the proposed amendment because I believe that this would conflict with the directive and I do not think there is any need for any further amendment to this second Article. However, the previous debate showed that there was a debate on the establishment of a new television station on Siol, it was said, "the establishment of para-state television". I know very little. I know that some journalists from national television already went to this project, but I cut my ears when it was said, "establishing para-state television". As this project must have been created during the previous government, it revealed what was the purpose of the previous government, the previous coalition: to establish para-state television. I'm grateful to my colleague for revealing this. This is important information as it was intended in the previous mandate, how to control the media space and also manage the current opposition. I am deeply opposed to the fact that this covert plan is now being implemented in this sense – no para-state television, even though the state-owned company will establish this, and the complete independence of journalists and houses. This is why I am in the previous law, and I now advocate that we must come so far that young journalists will not automatically be subjected to self-censorship in favour of the centres of power from the background, which are also controlled by those parties who are here on my right, and sometimes you are actually a transmission of these centres of power that have no democratic intentions. No television should be misused for such misplaced, discarded purposes as had been revealed by a fellow Member, such as these discards were clearly debated and prepared during the time of the previous authority. I would like him to say more – who was the author of these ideas, what everything was about to achieve. That's why I'm not surprised when I went to defend young journalists, that under too much pressure from editors and capital and centres of power from behind, my colleague attacked me earlier, that I discredited them. No, it's a defense. What do you think, without pressure, some young journalists, just as it has been written down what to do with an editor who wasn't, know that it wasn't like the last ruling option. As many media outlets as possible, with as many journalists as possible, independent journalists who will not be forced into self-censorship, to which indoctrination they received on the FDV will not work and will be able to take over, that is what I want and we must all want. Taking on different goals here is socially dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Jerovšek, you have such a rich imagination that my explanation of your expectations about the background cannot possibly be fulfilled. However, I thank you for bringing me up to date and for being able to replicate and in this regard, actually remove some lapsus that I have made in the previous debate. It's true, Siol's gonna be para state television, and I was talking in the last part like it's gonna be private. She'll be state-owned. That's the right thing to say. And now that we're talking about backgrounds. When Dr Igor Luksic took over the Ministry of Resort, he did not introduce this law into the procedure because he had already opposed it, as the Social Democrats do now. That's the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thanks again for saying that. Allow me to return the debate to the framework provided for in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. on this amendment. Let me just say why this amendment cannot be supported. The text adopted by the amendment to the committee I am chairing, and which is now the text of the law on the final stage of the hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly, contains a clear, precisely defined concept, which is also known by European law. This is the exercise of public service or public service. What is the scope of the public service is precisely defined by the Law on RTV Slovenia. What the public service may include in a given case is also determined by acts of the European Union. However, the proposed amendment by the SD Group contains some other concept, namely the implementation of the activity. The activity of RTV Slovenia is a much broader and less defined concept, because it includes both what is considered to be of greater importance to the public service and everything else. Such a revision of the text could only be adopted if we wanted to allow for a practical free interpretation of the text of the law as a whole, so that we would significantly deviate from what is required of us by the regulations, acts of the European Union. This is what the proposed amendment is said to mean, legally, much longer than the European Union's legal regime, than the text already adopted by the committee I am chairing, i.e. the committee covering the field of the media, at its meeting and which was adopted unanimously and which fully follows the law of the European Union and the purpose for which the applicant has been identified. In fact, the adoption of this amendment would mean that we will consciously make less clear the text, then allow such a law to be freely interpreted by Slovenian law and that even individual steps can be taken that would be contrary to European Union law. For all these reasons, it is certainly not good to accept the proposed amendment. I personally would even recommend that the applicants withdraw it, because it is obviously also unprofessionally prepared and the text, as in the basic text for this stage of consideration prepared by my committee, should be retained. This text also corresponds to the constitutional standards laid down for a text by the applicable rules, led by the Constitution of the State of Slovenia which require it, especially when you look at the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that each legal text must be clear, unequivocal and specific. In this case, only the term "public service" is fully defined. This is the concept contained in the basic text of the law, which is about to be removed by the proposed amendment. That is why I call on all of you to follow the constitutional principles, also confirmed by many decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to follow what is stated in the resolution on normative activities adopted by this National Assembly in the previous term, and to follow the principle of the clear definition of the text, while also the law of the European Union and to reject the proposed amendment, and to confirm the text of the law in full because it is of quality and because Slovenia needs it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I'm reopening my application for debate. Please sign up. Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! It has been available for quite some time for us to examine in detail the amendments of colleagues from the Social Democracy Group as well. A superficial reader can quickly turn to ice, especially if you focus on the explanation of the amendment, where the proposer speaks, that the amendment merely aims at improving the text of the bill by nomotechically improving the text of the bill. When we examined the text of the amendment in more detail, we saw where the trap was actually set. An essential difference is between the word "for the purpose of public service", which we support, from the word "for the purpose of public activity". And, colleagues and colleagues, very quickly, in the event that this amendment is adopted by the National Assembly, a similar situation would have occurred to us at the regular meeting of the National Assembly in May, when we received a comment by the European Commission on the amendment of the added value tax, a reminder that I am not saying a slap and that somehow we had to correct the added value tax law with long noses. Let me remind you that the previous coalition wanted the added value tax law mentioned above to be laid down in a way that would be different from the European system of value added tax to define the right of entry tax. This is how I predict that the New Slovenia Group will reject this amendment if the proposaler does not withdraw it sooner. However, we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. In adopting this amendment, let me make it very clear that the amendment has been tabled precisely because of the interest of viewers and viewers. It's about users. You all refer to some European regulations and so on, but yet the current text in the law adopted on the Committee has just criticised Norkring through a law society. If anything is unclear, it is now clearly unclear in this law. And there were no answers, either, and how this ambiguity would be resolved. Our amendment is really talking about that. It can be a public activity, it can also be a market activity. Both in accordance with the law and Radiotelevision Slovenia can do so, there is no doubt that it is allowed to do so by legislation. And there's something else. If broadcast via multiplex of Television Slovenia, then the signal will be access to virtually all households in Slovenia. If that is not the case, it may happen that at least some thirty to forty thousand households in Slovenia will not be able to receive television commercial programmes in Slovenia. Why is it in your interest if I may ask? Is it the interest of the media to reach people, or is it the interest to only reach, I don't know, those areas that are most popular, if they live along borders or in more remote areas, but they don't have to monitor, say, POP TV, Channel A and other commercial television networks or televisions? And there's something else. What, though, if this commercial multiplex, which you are enforcing, will not be implemented in practice? Norkring's predicting he'll withdraw. We will have a network that will be empty, it will not be functional, but at the same time it will meet the conditions you say the directive imposes on them. And if this network remains in operation without a user, then in fact, if our amendment is not accepted, even through TV Slovenia, it is not possible to monitor commercial television shows. Why would it be in the interest of the National Assembly not to again allow viewers and viewers to have better ratings, better access to the signal? Last but not least, when it comes to a combination of public and market programmes, public service costs are also covered. A million 200 000 euros can be bought by RTV Slovenia on the market. If this million 200 000 is not won on the market, who remains to settle the obligations arising from the operation of RTV? Just viewers and viewers, just lifting the subscription is once again the solution to cover these costs. It is really in the interest of viewers and viewers that this amendment has been adopted, because they will have a cheaper radio and television subscription, they will also have more access to commercial television, and this is what it is meant to do, I hope, also to adopt legislation in this area. To follow some of the narrow interests of marketing and the use of individual multiplexes only for narrow market purposes, speaks of clearly following the interest of capital. And we understand that, too. But we all know that the interest in capital does not usually follow the public interest, and this amendment is one that combines the public interest and also partly the market interest, so that the tax paid primarily by viewers and viewers is cheap. If you want to think in the interests of users, in the interest of viewers and viewers, then this amendment must be accepted. But if you look very narrowly and make excuses for certain European regulations, then this is something you can say, but once again I warn you, if there is any confusion, there is in the current text of the law. And this ambiguity was not pointed out by us, but also by those who are now using another multiplex and are using, not least, legal societies to point out some weakness in the law and ambiguity in the law. Our amendment is very clear and it is very easy to explain what this is about. What is now stated in the law, however, is more difficult to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u104	Yes, because it is nice to see the real thing once and to put that party on the side of the interest of capital, and in practice this also often advocates, is said in this case SD. But in this case, there's obviously one legal misunderstanding here or, hopefully, not really ignorance. You know, if we're talking about what this law puts into our legal order, then we're talking about a European directive. The European Directive is not something that is non-binding, but it binds the country. And the texts of the European Directive, when it comes to this area, are quite clear. When it comes to the implementation of the public service, exactly the arrangements proposed in the amended proposal of the law are required. But when it comes to everything else, it's something else and it's regulated in a different way and in other ways. Therefore, the text, as in the basic text of the law prepared for consideration today at the meeting, as it was established at the meeting of the committee that I am leading and covering the field of the media, is perfectly appropriate and only correct in terms of the European legislation or the European legal regime as it is at the moment, and properly and legally indisputable in bringing this regulation into our domestic legal order, that is to say, into law. Such an arrangement would blur the amendment, make it unclear, legally not uniform, and therefore it would be possible to implement the law in a way that is no longer in line with the European Directive. This means that, in a given case, we would have allowed a conscious violation of European law. This is, therefore, also a legal reason, in addition to the constitutional principle of clarity already mentioned in the resolution on normative activities, which in no way allows the amendment to be adopted. In the SDS, and personally, we will vote against it. However, we will confirm the text of a law that correctly transposes the European Directive into our legal order while at the same time allowing what is of particular importance to the Republic of Slovenia to be put in the right place and also in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats, which certainly benefits viewers and viewers of television programmes. However, since there is little chance that the coalition will support this amendment, I will end up voting against a bill providing the private sector with a monopoly, and viewers and viewers with a television eclipse, as it is estimated that without some private television programmes such as POP TV, Channel A, Pink SI and others, there will be about 40,000 households, which is not such a negligible number. In addition, this law also results in a loss to the public service of RTV Slovenia, as the measure takes a million EUR 200 000 per year to national television, which would otherwise be used to carry out activities in the public interest. As it is said, for these three reasons, because it provides a monopoly for the private sector because it brings a eclipse to viewers and viewers and because it exhausts the public RTV institution in a financial sense, I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. It is interesting to see the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, which points out that the novelty will make a large contribution to one private provider. Now I don't know if it's twisted out of the vine, but if the Council of State evaluates it that way, and in the Group of Social Democrats we think the same thing, then there's something about it. I'm coming from the border area. We know the relief of our country, how many valleys, how many hills and boilers, and in all these parts of Slovenia some TV programs will not be possible to watch. You need to be aware of that. It's easier somewhere in the plain area than in the hilly part of our country. While we eliminate this belt at the very border and prevent it from viewing certain programs, it is extremely damaging for our country. We are trying to have this area settled, to have the same standard of living as someone else who is closer to the centre, to regulate infrastructure and so on, because it is the interest of the state that such an area along the border is inhabited and that we keep this western boundary of vocabulary as far as possible. This law should be in the interest of viewers, not performers. The viewer is the one with the priority here and has to be serviced. Therefore, some public interest, which is also expressed in the fact that RTV Slovenia, with the income it would receive through these routes, is talking about the income of a million 200 000 euros, allowing for a cheaper TV subscription or should not be encouraged. But we have been doing this all the time, and I hope that some members of the coalition will be left behind, that this amendment tabled by the Social Democracy will only remain and will be adopted. Before the previous point, so many hard words were considered unnecessary, see when Peterle from Brussels explains that some candidate for the president of the country will be elected by those with brainwashed minds. Well, please, let's stop it, let's stop it! We are living here today in a free democratic Slovenia and you are constantly struggling with some history and no one has anything to do with it. I will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I find there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Before I give the word "magic." Branku Grims, on the balcony I welcome the delegation of Montenegrin Members and Members and representatives of the political parties of the Republic of Montenegro. / applause/ Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you. Once again, I will have to limit myself to what the content of the law is, which obviously makes problems for my respected colleagues there, because they have already been in the statements made by individuals regarding the election of the President of the State, from Brussels. I must say that this is a very interesting logic, and whatever can be involved in one debate in the National Assembly, but this is certainly contrary to the rules of procedure, Mr President, and this should be highlighted in particular. What is the subject of the law is the question of what is the public interest. Slovenia has its own legal order, ladies and gentlemen, and this legal order in the Media Act defines exactly what is of public interest. One is the provision of public service when it comes to RTV Slovenia and the other gives special place in the public interest to programmes of special importance for the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the law governing the media. It is said that exactly what is covered by the proposed text of the bill is defined as a public interest. And this law gives priority to private interests. The problems that you have pointed out will need to be addressed differently, taking into account all the elements envisaged by the possibility of regulating this area, either within the context of the real possibilities of individual commercial providers, or of countries as a whole. But in a given case, when we regulate an area that covers only public broadcasting, the European Union's standards and regulations must be respected. And it is very interesting to say that in the end you will vote against the law in its entirety, which is nothing more than a transposition of the directive of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. This means that you are deliberately predicting a vote contrary to the European legal order. This may sound very brave, but it is important to know that the legal order contains several levels and that the European acquis is in charge of the national legal order when it comes to binding acts. And if one of these acts is not liked by anyone, it may also be justified and unjustifiable, nor does it matter, the only legally correct path in democratic regulation is to change the basic text. In this case, this would, of course, be a directive of the European Union which regulates this area. However, if this is true and Slovenia is committed, this must be taken into account within our legal framework, in particular this law, which is only appropriate in this respect, while the problems you have pointed out will have to be dealt with differently. Once again, the rule of law of the European Union, the interests of the people and the real capacity of the providers of commercial programmes will be respected. However, public interest needs to be given priority.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm opening the application. I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you. Well, since if Master Branko Grims were to sit in the Chamber more often, then I should at some point for this lesson on what the Rules of Procedure require, warn my fellow Members and fellow Members of the parliamentary group before they go into trouble and attack the Members of my parliamentary group. But since it has been very modern lately to explain what the European legal order is and what the hierarchy of these legal instruments is, the honourable colleague would point only to how he voted against the proposed media law at first reading in the previous term without any difficulty, but it was to comply with the European directives, and because media legislation is Mr Grims' specialty, I only mention media legislation. What the Directive requires and how the Directive will be transposed into national law is a matter of national law. The Regulation is directly applicable. But you don't have any problems with regulations either. If there is a lack of consistency and protection of rights in national legislation, which is higher than that proposed regulation, you are voting peacefully against national legislation, so that these legal lessons on what is valid and what is not, what is not respected and what is not, I would just say when we are talking about protecting a constitutional provision on the clarity of legislation, and what is a recent pattern of legal uncertainty and what else. So, Mr Grimes, please, when you're cutting at us, let's think about your own doorstep and something like that. But I am talking about the law that we are considering today and the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment is just one option to regulate legally things that combine two areas and activity is a broader concept than what is written only in the public interest. This will have to be shown in a little more detail why this is contrary to the directive, because when this law is being considered, so many different opinions have been heard on what is contrary to the directive. And in order not to do any great science here because there is such an overblown sound of a lot of things, we also need to look at what the directive really brings. And it would be good for those who are now reading where the disagreement is, even if everyone knew what we were talking about, to quote us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u113	Replica, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u114	Very briefly. Mrs Potrata, if you are already looking for a legal salad, then look at the anti-corruption law, which also touches lobbying and which I personally opposed and my parliamentary group in the previous term. Your colleague, from your parliamentary group, has now, I think, paid a second sentence under this law, which he adopted at the time, because the law is written in such a way that it practically prevents normal parliamentary work in that part that we are actually touching today, when we are looking for optimal solutions with all those concerned by the individual law, because it mixes with lobbying on one side and, on the other hand, seeking additional solutions and consultation with those directly affected by the law. And because of this, many times the best solutions can not be found in practice. But in this case, you know, the situation is legally exactly as I said. We are bound by European Union law. However, the problem that you have pointed out will have to be addressed differently, within the framework of other possible solutions. Which, however, I cannot help you with your best wishes right now, because the law that you have adopted in my opposition, which interferes with lobbying and the search for information, makes it impossible for me to meet normally with the providers of commercial programs and ask them about their wishes, proposals and possibly any good idea maybe even try to translate into legislation in this national assembly. If mixed laws are adopted, then, of course, there are consequences for the country such as this, and I only hope and expect the current government to take this law into account once and that it will actually delineate what the fight against corruption and lobbying in the European sense of the word from a perfectly normal work of the Member State, which is now unfortunately impossible because of your work in the last term. And first, sweep before your threshold.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Giga Turk spoke to you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I would not like it to appear that the only reason we accept this law is that there is something written in European legislation. I would like to argue that what is said in European legislation is very meaningful if we want to have some normal, fair conditions of a market economy, where the distinction between what is public and what is private is established and where it is prevented from making a selective private profit on the public account. And about how and where some private profits would be made at the expense of the public, but in this area we are great masters in Slovenia, and I believe that such solutions are going very hard through Parliament or at least through the opposition. What is the point of this arrangement? The essence of this arrangement is that if there is any limited public goods and, if there is one, a public institution acting in the public interest is free of charge, without a tender, without a concession, it shall not be available to the State, then it must not be used for a gainful activity or be used as part of a market activity. Such public goods are not just the radio spectrum we are talking about today. Slovenia should react equally if it is working with water or with space or with sea or air or with anything. Of course, things are changing a lot at a time when the state of public goods is making concessions available, with a call for compensation in a way that someone will give some compensation for this good. This amendment to the SD is the very essence of this European directive or of this European regime, that if you receive any public goods free of charge, free of charge, unconditionally, to distinguish this from commercial interest, this arrangement is divorced because you propose that any activity of the public institution of RTV could participate without restriction in this public good. And, of course, the interest of capital was mentioned here. The big interest in capital is here. The interest of that capital, which in analogue times had 60%, 70% coverage and has now come through the side door to 98% coverage. Of course, it does not suit them to go back, not to 70% or 60% coverage, but commercial multiplex had coverage of 87%, 88%. Of course, lobbying is a problem, but the obvious lobbying is still running, so this marriage has been in drawers for so long. The profession you like to talk about, the profession, which is, of course, an integral part of the official apparatus at the Ministry, prepared this solution deep last year. I have heard here that my predecessor did not submit this law on purpose because he did not like it, because he probably did not like those who broadcast their programs on public broadcasters. Do you recall the announcements of a lawsuit before the European Court of Justice where the penalty is set at EUR 13,000 a day? That's also the subject of this. If this Parliament does not get ahead of the European Court's decision, we will pay 13,000 euros a day 'cause we do not know what is public goods used in the public interest and how this thing can be mixed with commercial providers. I believe that in the public interest in Slovenia there would be many more things that people would like to get a lot more for free. But the infrastructure that is in place provides significantly more access to commercial television programmes in the air than it was before the digital transition. No regulation prevents the providers of commercial programmes from building a network that will have the same coverage as the public broadcasting network. You're so worried. And even with the amendment proposed by the coalition, we also create the possibility of a commercial multiplex building public broadcasting. But it will be obtained under entirely different conditions as this multiplex, which is now established, and the distinction between public good and private interest will, of course, be substantially better regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. It's still a matter of debate, so I'm opening the application. I'm asking you to sign up. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have said the hard words. I assign them to you that you were not present in the previous term and did not follow the discussions under the Media Act, which was rejected. From here, you are also surprised to see how some may have overlooked or supposed to have overlooked the danger of paying the penalty. Your fellow Members and Members of Parliament voted peacefully in the previous term against the Media Act, which announced the multi-million-dollar damage if it is not adopted. And then there was talk of frequencies as public goods, as well as competition and the creation of a monopoly. The creation of a monopoly against which the directive is directed is something that this law has made possible. Creating a monopoly doesn't mean it'll stop. Obstacles to competition and the creation of a monopoly are all within themselves. And this is about the process you're talking about. It's not what anyone likes, it's what nobody likes. You can make that decision in the coalition and you can make those decisions that the public liked, you've given up on those, of course, in those that the public didn't recognize, and you've knocked over, and you could say something to you. As for lobbying and the great pain of Mr Branko Grims and corruption and the Anti-Corruption Act, some in this Chamber or belong to an option that has very great experience in corruption. Such experiences that some others would have to learn from them if we were interested in dealing with corruption. Transparency International has submitted a report on corruption in Slovenia and has also expressed its views. What Mr Branko Grimes is talking about is one of the fields of corruption. The most common are politics and the economy. These two are most exposed to corruption, and this by lobbying in that regulated view has nothing to do. But let's not talk about it today, because we're meeting with the anti-corruption commission on Thursday, and they're gonna tell us what our job is and what we're not. But as we speak and as we hear that ministers themselves receive mail about which entrepreneur is satisfied with what and with what he is not. If that's right, there's another thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. The decision on the amendment will be made in 30 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the fourth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision-making session on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the third item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, no amendments could be tabled for the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 3. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Are there any problems with the voting devices? Good. Then we'll stop for a few minutes to check it out. Is he okay? All right, all right. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. No amendments were adopted by the mother's working body, so we do not have any amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. The amendments are not possible, so we can start by voting. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Media. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not notified me of any inconsistencies due to the amendments, so we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. This agenda item is also concluded. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 11 June 2012. This is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 2. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have completed the second reading of the bill and are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment has not been adopted, we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any non-compliance due to the amendment adopted on the home work body. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you. Members of the Social Democrats have opposed the law and we still oppose it because the law does not guarantee the minimum competition for digital broadcasting. More. The current pair is replaced by the monopoly of one bidder. In addition, the law means financial poverty of public RTV Slovenia. For the better inhabitants and people of Slovenia, it means reducing the possibility of monitoring popular TV programs. These are two fundamental reasons why we are opposed. However, we believe that it is the task of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up such a proposal for a law which, in the light of the directives of the European Union, gives priority to the directive rather than to the expectations of individual economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u122	We vote on the bill. There are 78 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will now decide on the proposals for conclusions to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister or Minister. First, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal by Mr Jani Möderndorfer to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jani Möderndorfer's question on the coalition agreement, the Treaty on Slovenia 2012-2015. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jank Weber's question on the amendments to the concept of State property management. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, to Mr Matjaž Zanoškar's question on the environmental rehabilitation of the Mežišič Valley. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of mag. Majde Potrat in relation to sports support. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of Mr Dragan Bosic's question on the planned intervention in the school network. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of the question of the question of the future status of self-employed in culture. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Rejoicing Zerjava in relation to human resources policy in the economy. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of mag. Majde Potrata in connection with the network of public high schools. We're voting. There are 76 Members present and 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to Mrs Tina Komel's question on the invitation to tender for the allocation of funds to the faculties. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žiga Turka, to Mrs Renata Brunskole's question on the planned changes to school standards and standards. Mrs Renata Brunskole has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I propose that we hold a public debate primarily on this important topic, on public primary education for all children, both in towns and in rural areas, on the change in the network of basic schools, school environments, norms and standards, without public presentation and the abolition of the Education Institute, without public presentation of opinions and public debates, where the opinion would be given by the profession, both by representatives of local communities, principals and the mayors, means that the apparently Ministry of Education will decide in its own way, so to the detriment of basic education in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving away from the even development of the Republic of Slovenia and withdrawing the equality of rights for all children. We want to clearly prefer private schools, public education would be obvious for the layers of people on the threshold of survival today. I'm afraid that's the point. I've said it more drasticly than it is right now, but if we look at the demographically endangered area of the White Land, it's a pity. The abolition of three separate primary schools, the change to branch schools, that is a fact. September is supposed to be 35 professors and other professionals out of work. Where's he going? This is certainly the wrong way to go, so I suggest we hold a public debate. If they are sincere intentions for the good of the Republic of Slovenia, we have nothing to fear, so let us hold this public debate and work for the benefit of basic education, such as the expectations of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The path, once again, to which the Ministry of Education is now taking the wrong path. The question raised by some representatives of the coalition also confirmed this to me last day and I propose that we have a public debate. We are moving away from the legal, democratic and social state of the Republic of Slovenia if we introduce private primary schools and put public schools on the sidelines in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u124	We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] The decision was not adopted. We have three more votes. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question of mag. Lejle Hercegovac related to the 2012 work programme of the Ministry of Health We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovič, to Mr Jerk Čehovin's question on compensation to denationalising beneficiaries by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. Mr Jerko Čehovin has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u125	This proposal goes beyond, at least in my opinion, a coalition or positional stance. This is a large amount of resources that the State will have to give to denationalising victims on the basis of the inability to manage assets, and which, according to the criteria that are not clear, exceeds what we have discussed and reaches even close to EUR 100 million. While we are talking about legislation, let's say we have adopted several laws today, which together represent perhaps 5% of the impact of what I propose to discuss, it will take place in the background because we do not have a proper methodology, because we do not have both the judiciary and the executive branch of the authorities of the regulated methodologies to lose some 10 million euros. This also strengthens only the recognition of Minister Bogovic that this is a serious problem, so I think this is not really a coalition or opposition issue, but a broader one. I therefore propose that you join me in voting to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u126	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 80 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] The decision was not adopted. And another proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zvonk Černač's reply to Mr Jožef Kavtič's question on the construction of the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj. Mr. Kavtičnik has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I made a request for a general debate mainly because Minister Cernač did not give an appropriate response. Last but not least, he couldn't give it, because he says he doesn't have the right information. And if the government and the minister do not have adequate information on our country's most expensive and most important investment, then it is certainly right to hold a debate here in the National Assembly. In particular, because this investment is a source of spirits, not only of spirits outside this House, but also of Parliament. The ball is passed by the government to parliament to take responsibility for the MPs. Of course, we are convinced that the government is responsible for this investment, which is somehow 100% owned by HSE and this owner of TES. I am therefore confident that both Members and the government will be provided with the necessary information on how the construction of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, block 6, is taking place and on what needs to be done or what has not been done. That is why I appeal to all of us and you to support this proposal and to pour ourselves pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-12-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u128	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Just two more notifications. At 3 p.m., unfortunately, due to the meeting of the Assembly Halls, the working bodies of the State Council will be sitting at 3 p.m. in a large salon. The meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Affairs will be held in 15 minutes, at 2.40 p.m. in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič.
