ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Romana Tomc, Borut Pahor, Zoran Jankovic and Alojzi Potočnik. I invited Mr Anton Gasper Frantar, President of the State Election Commission, and Mr Robert Hroat's candidate for Ambassador to the 1st agenda and representatives of the Government to the 2nd and 3rd agendas. I also welcome Mr Hroat, Mr Dusan Vukka, Director of the State Election Commission. Nicely greeted! We are moving on to the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 1 February 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We've also received an extension proposal you don't have on your hands. I would like to inform you that the Group of Members and Members has proposed an extension of the agenda by 1st item, the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. That's exactly what this proposal is about to be shared. It is justified by the fact that the reasons for the extension of the agenda arose after the reference to the 6th extraordinary meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Member Jani Möderndorfer is by letter dated 2. 2. In its consideration of the National Assembly, 2012 submitted a proposal to extend the agenda by the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. You're just receiving a motion on the bench. Does Mr Möderndorfer wish to speak as a proponent of enlargement? Please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u2	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the tradition of the National Assembly, given that the 30-day deadline has expired, and that it is in fact more or less clear who the coalition is and who the opposition is, we have proposed an extension of the agenda for the reason that we can fill that last city. This is to occupy the post of Vice-President of the largest opposition parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 1. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The national assembly will consider the voting enlargement as point 1.a of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference, including the addition adopted. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 1. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the examination of the appointment of a candidate who will, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, act as a Member instead of a Member who has taken office in the government. Since Mr Ivan Janez Janša, while serving as Prime Minister of the Government, cannot act as a Member, the State Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly a decision on the right to replace Mr Janša at the time when he served as President of the Government, Mr Robert Hrvat. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed by the Commission on Elections, which also made written reports to the Assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Ambassadors and Members, do you want a word on your behalf? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: As long as Member Ivan Janez Janša acts as Prime Minister of the Government and therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members cannot act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today, Mr Robert Hrovat, born 10. 4. 1971. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Mr Robert Hroat's fellow Member of Parliament, I invite him to join us. [[Applause]] I wish my fellow Croat a successful parliamentary function. Congratulations! We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, which is a proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, proposed to the National Assembly on 2 February 2012 that Mrs Renato Brunskole be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly from the largest opposition group. Does the representative of the proposer wish to speak for an additional explanation of the proposal? Please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u4	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, given that a coalition agreement or treaty is signed and after the election of the President of the Government, it is clear what the future coalition will be like. On the basis of this and also Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is time to elect the Vice-President of the National Assembly from the largest opposition parliamentary group. In the parliamentary group, we propose that Mrs Renata Brunskole be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. The MP and the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, after educating a specialist in the field of business economy, worked for many years in the banking sector, where she also performed management functions. In 2006, she was elected mayor of Metlika, where she served as mayor until 2011. In 2008, she was elected as a member of the National Assembly, where she was also elected in last year's early elections. On the basis of the experience described, we believe that Mrs Renata Brunskole certainly demonstrates the necessary knowledge, the ability to understand the fundamental roles of the institutions of parliamentary democracy and the National Assembly. We therefore believe that she will be responsible and successful in carrying out the duties of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u5	Thank you. Would you like the word representatives, representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] You want the word of a Member and Members in your own name? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. The National Assembly shall, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide by secret ballot on the election of the Vice-President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote shall be chaired by a committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the Commission to hold a secret vote. These are: mag. Melita Župevc [[Positive Slovenia]] Mr. Zvonko Lah [[Slovenian Democratic Party]] , Mr Matjaž Han [[Social Democrats]] Mrs. Iva Dimic [[New Slovenia]] . I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against 1. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the commission has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid, and a vote shall also be invalid, which shall not clearly indicate the will of the Member or Member. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Vice-President or candidate for Vice-President shall be elected, if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that shall be 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 13.20 p.m. and will last until 13.35 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in voting to meet again in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 13.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u6	Colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. We are moving on to a closed agenda item 1.a, this is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly: The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly on 2 February 2012. 81 ballots were distributed. 81 ballots were delivered. There were two ballots invalid. 79 ballots were valid. 74 Members and Members voted against by five Members and Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Renata Brunskole was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. [[Applause]] I congratulate the newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly and wish her a successful performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u7	Thank you so much for everyone's confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u8	We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a developmental planning law, an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 1st urgent meeting on 1 February, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for a law on development planning as its parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly, however, decided at its 2nd meeting that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Government of Development and European Affairs and Legal Services participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the PSC, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In their opinion, the services note that the proposed law regulates matter which is now regulated at a sub-legislative level. The Service expresses the need for the transfer of sub-legislative material to the legal level. With regard to the link between the draft law and the law governing public finances, the service points out that this connection is not clear from the proposed legislative text. In addition, the Service points out that two development planning systems could exist if this law was adopted. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants to the law submitted within a time limit. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism, Finance and proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Government of Development and European Affairs on the basis of comments by the Legislative and Legal Service. In the introductory explanation, the applicant and the Minister for Development and European Affairs explained that the purpose of the bill is to regulate the area of development planning in Slovenia. The adoption of the proposed law would achieve uniformity and systematic action in the area of development planning and monitoring and evaluation of results. In an additional explanation for the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the proposal for a law regulates matter which is now regulated at a sub-legislative level and reiterated the need for the transfer of this matter to a legal level. The discussion expressed the view that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration and the proposal submitted to withdraw or reject it. Individual members of the Committee considered the text submitted to be incomplete and contradictory in individual places. The proposal was made for the law under consideration to be adopted and resubmitted to the National Assembly. On the other hand, individual members of the Committee felt that the proposal for a law should be considered, drawing attention to the possible negative consequences that might result from the decision to postpone the debate on this law. In conclusion of the debate, the Committee voted on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a development planning law was not suitable for further consideration and adopted such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Han, take the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u11	Thank you. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the coalition has decided to reject the Development Planning Act because the law would set out strategic and implementing development documents and their hierarchy. The law would also identify development document holders and define the process of coordinating individual development policies. The well-planned development documents with a defined link between the objectives and financial resources and the monitoring system for achieving the objectives would enable the achievement of the objectives and the effective use of financial resources, which is very important. This makes it particularly necessary for the Development Planning Act to be adopted. This would provide a good basis for drawing up the 2012 budget rebalancing, as it will be necessary to ensure, in addition to the projected planning, that the rebalancing will also be made development-oriented and will achieve, to the greatest extent possible, the objectives that will continue the path of recovery from the crisis. Especially because budgetary resources will be further limited in the future to achieve all the objectives set. The adoption of the Development Planning Act would therefore be more useful if it were adopted than not. The development planning and content of individual development documents must be seen in the light of strengthened economic governance and placed in an equivalent legal position with the public finance system. The Development Planning Act would allow for a clearer definition of priorities and more appropriate planning of development documents, but it must be backed up with real financial resources. The most important thing for us is to give Slovenia a clear signal to the financial markets, that they will regain confidence in our Slovenia. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the conclusion that the Development Planning Act is inappropriate for further consideration. Especially because of this, ladies and gentlemen, the presidents of the parliamentary parties have agreed on 17. 1. 2011 in Villa Podróžnik, that this law is also one of the necessary laws to get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u12	Thank you. The word is given by Ivan Vogrin on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Development Planning Act, together with the Public Finance Act, regulates the preparation of the budget and related planning. We believe that certain solutions in the proposals are good, and above all it is very important that the development planning system is regulated, but this is not necessarily on a legal level. However, it is good that the proposed procedures, together with the Public Finance Act, are finalized. Given that this is one of the more important tasks of each government, it would make sense to determine the optimal way of planning and preparing the budget by the government that will take over the mandate and not by the government that is in the process of leaving. For this reason, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u14	Thank you. Ivan Hršak has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u15	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the draft law on development planning. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. One of the main concerns we had among Members of the DeSUS Group was that the proposal received considerable comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In particular, we agree with their observation that the proposal for a law governs matter that is now regulated at a sub-legislative level and that the legislators should regulate those social relations that are so conflictsome that the affected entities cannot self-discipline and are therefore threatened by the existence of a society. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the non-admission of this law does not constitute a threat to the existence of our society, but that the new government will be given the opportunity to adopt a development and implementation planning strategy. We also believe that the proposal for a law would not contribute to any improvement in the economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia, which is why we consider it inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u16	Thank you. Mikhael Prevc has the word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Development Planning Act, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is not suitable for further consideration. First of all, it is worth mentioning that there are legal changes that are certainly not necessary in nature. Effective and transparent development planning is defined as the main objective of the proposed law, which is intended to contribute to the more efficient use of public funds. In the Slovenian People's Party, we point out that someone else has taken responsibility for responsible, transparent and effective handling of public funds at the moment, and no longer is the proposer of this law. We are in a situation where the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia is formed for the next term. It would be really strange, if not even pointless, to accept some completely new thought - out organizational changes without having to be identified by those who will have to meet them in a few weeks. At the same time, we Members have also received a very clear opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which highlights how very questionable it is to write down individual provisions with a specific legal basis, as proposed by the law. The current sub-legislation of development planning is based on the law governing public finances. Many comments on individual articles would also require a lot of work, additions and amendments in order to regulate the proposal in general, which would also be legally acceptable. In addition, I would like to point out that the newly formed coalition has also committed itself to simplifying procedures and de-de-irocraticizing the country. When reading this marriage proposal, one does not feel that we are simplifying things, but at certain points, we are even further entanglement. It's obviously a marriage that's a little bit of a survivor. It defines certain strategies that the government has put in place, which are now completing its mandate. We are convinced that the new government must define its priorities and its strategic orientations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the decision that the law in question is rejected in this form and is not suitable for further consideration. However, its content, and thus any good solution, is available to the new government, which can examine individual solutions in this proposal and decide whether a similar law will be needed in the future for its more effective functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u18	Thank you. The word is given by Joseph Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we note that so far the development planning regime is regulated by a sub-law based on the Public Finance Act. The proposal for a law on development planning, which has been addressed and submitted to the National Assembly by the outgoing government, does not show compelling reasons for putting development planning in the equivalent position of public finance systems, i.e. development planning, in a specific law. We have concerns about the necessity and necessity of transferring sublegal matter to the legal level. The fact is that some of the legislation in our country is too complex, opaque, rigid and causes serious implementation problems. They even strongly inhibit economic and social development. In the case of the consideration of the proposal for a law on development cooperation, we perceive too much slackness, too loosely the linkage of the bill with the law on public finances, which is crucial in development planning. If the Development Planning Act were to be adopted in the proposed form, we would estimate that there would be two parallel development planning systems, a system based on the Public Finance Act and a system based on this law, which would bring to our legal order an additional lack of transparency, which I have already pointed out. And this lack of transparency is also our big problem, given the situation we have at the moment with regard to the Slovenian government. On the one hand, we have a outgoing government that has proposed this law, and on the other hand, we have a incoming government. Therefore, it seems reasonable for us to reject the law and impose it on the new government to prepare and propose its concept of development planning to the National Assembly as soon as possible. We have therefore rejected the law on the Committee on the Economy and the New Slovenia Group remains in this position and will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u20	Thank you. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! In our parliamentary group, we join the view that in the Republic of Slovenia the area of development planning needs to be harmonised and regulated. We also agree with the conclusion that it is likely that this extremely important and multi-layered area cannot be addressed solely by means of sub-legal acts. At the same time, the finding of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and most political parties that the proposed text of the law is weak and in the proposed form the proposal is by no means appropriate for approval or adoption. That is why we join the Committee on the Economy's position to reject the proposal, and we will vote accordingly in the context of the decision-making process. However, I would like to point out that any new proposal will certainly be supported if it ensures transparency, compatibility and hierarchical regulation of development documents. Without deepening the content of the proposal, which was rejected on the committee responsible, I would also like to stress the shortcomings of that text from the national point of view. We are convinced that in the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution and the mission of indigenous national communities and their pursuit of the existence and continued development, it will certainly be necessary to include in any new text among the bodies involved in the implementation of development policies, in addition to ministries and government bodies or municipalities, also legitimate or competent organisations of indigenous national communities, i.e. the self-government of the national community. They are constitutionally defined entities or persons of public law with jurisdiction in the national mixed area. There can be no doubt about this that the area of development planning is the subject of a court between the competences and activities of these self-governing national communities. Unfortunately, this was not the case in the proposed marriage text. However, we expect that any new law will also consistently regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u22	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! The outgoing government has introduced a law on development planning into the parliamentary procedure, which is intended to re-organise this area. In particular, due to the financial and economic crisis, the European Commission has put in place a new method of development planning, which has two main dimensions. This is a long-term development document of the European Strategy for Growth and Development and jobs by 2020 and the medium-term, which is part of the so-called European Semester, and is a national reform programme and a stability programme. The proposed law is thus intended to lay down strategic development documents and subordinated other development documents relating to sectoral policies and are coordinated with the main ones. The content should therefore be regulated by a comprehensive development planning system, set up a hierarchy of strategic documents and their links with public finances, and identify how policies and consequences for non-fulfilment of the objectives set. The content of the proposal essentially replaces the regulation on documentary development planning and procedures for the preparation of a draft state budget, which is a sub-legislative act. This was also one of the main concerns of the National Legislative and Legal Service, which has been a problem with the proposed transposition to the legislative level. Moreover, it also highlighted the question of the connection between the legal text and the law governing public finances, which will be discussed at the next point. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we believe that development planning is essential and necessary, especially in terms of achieving the objectives and strategies that must be coordinated and synergistically focused on the results of different development policies. The blood document coordinating the various development plans undoubtedly helps to reduce and conceal administrative procedures. It is true, however, that certain sectoral policies, national programmes and resolutions diversify in terms of country-wide development objectives. The main question that I am asking us at today's hearing is whether the content of the present document should be prepared by the government on the way out or whether the government should take responsibility for its future actions, which is already under way. We have not supported the content of the proposal in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia because of these dilemmas and open questions already on the working body of the proposal, nor have we rejected it. The conclusion that the Development Planning Act is not suitable for further consideration will not be opposed, nor will it receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u24	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposed law is incomplete and contradictory in individual places. We estimate that the law is not suitable for further consideration, but above all, it is unusual for the government to prepare a law on development planning in its departure, since it would probably be more reasonable to prepare it at the beginning of the mandate. We estimate that it is important for the incoming new government to assess whether such a law is at all important or to draw up its strategy for further development. It should also be noted that development planning is not regulated by law in most European countries. As an additional argument, why we believe that the law should be rejected are also the substantive comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. The SDS Group will today support the proposed decision by the Committee on the Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u26	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the third item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I welcome Mrs. Matejo Vraničar, Secretary of State. With regard to this proposal for a law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! At its 6th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance, submitted by the Government, with a proposal to adopt this law. The bill was also sent to local communities which did not support their opinions. The Committee was informed of the delivered opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal order and the technical and regulatory aspects. The legislative and legal service made comments to the draft law on the 15 articles; all articles are slightly less than 30, I think 28. As additional material, the Committee received comments from the Unions of Slovenian State Authorities and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. Both, this is what the unions and the Commission of the State Council call, and this proposal is not supported by the law. The proposed amendment to Article 2 of the bill was proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. This amendment was received at the committee's own meeting. In the additional explanation of the proposal, the State Secretary provided a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law as well as the proposed solutions. Among other things, it stressed the necessity of consolidating public finances and strengthening legal bases. The adoption of the law would also respond to the demands of the European Union, which has already adopted a package of six legislative acts, but it is time for these acts to be adopted by the end of next year. The substantive solutions to the bill entail strengthening public financial discipline through the introduction of the medium-term public financial framework, strengthening the role and independence of the fiscal world, a fiscal rule setting the level of public debt to 48% and the level of guarantees to 20% of GDP. In the context of the additional explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that if the law was adopted, the Rules of Procedure should also be amended, which required a two-thirds majority vote. In the debate, representatives of trade unions drew attention to the need for and necessity of social dialogue, which was not available in this case. In the debate and in view of many concerns, a member of the SDS Committee suggested that the committee should, in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. In the discussion before the vote, the individual members of the committee stressed the fear that the non-admission of the bill would constitute a bad message for Slovenia in the international financial markets. They also stressed that a welcome social dialogue would be needed. Members were particularly interested in the consequences if the law had not been adopted. At these critical evaluations, the Government's representative stressed that this was a bad decision for Slovenia and said that the effects on international financial markets, which are unpredictable, were difficult to assess. Finally, at the conclusion of the debate, the president of the Committee said that the rejection of the proposal did not have negative effects, as the bill itself proposes a fiscal rule and a limitation on debt and, on the other hand, allows or prejudges, under certain conditions, additional indebtedness, so the rejection of the law will also give a positive signal to the international financial markets, as there will be no additional debt. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act, an urgent procedure, was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u28	Thank you. In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the Government, which is the bill's proponent. Mrs Matey Vraničnik, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u29	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. Public financial instability in the euro area requires strengthening public financial discipline and transparency of budgetary planning. In November 2011, the European Union adopted a package of legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the fiscal responsibility of the Member States. The bill before you is a Slovenian response to this situation. The government is aware of its limited powers since the vote of non-trust, and we are also aware of our responsibility to do everything we can to respond to the resulting public financial situation quickly and substantively. The Government therefore decided, after consulting and obtaining the consent of all the leaders of the parliamentary parties, to submit a proposal for a law to the National Assembly for adoption. The proposal for a law is important mainly for three reasons. First time. This law transposes the European Council Directive on budgetary requirements of the Member States into Slovenian legislation and therefore introduces a new act – the medium-term fiscal framework – into the budgetary procedure, and this novelty is adapted to the entire annual state budget process. Another time. The draft law introduces transparent and clear fiscal rules and represents an important step towards the creation of legal bases for the gradual consolidation of public finances and strengthens the role of the fiscal council in order to ensure further control over the adequacy of budgetary planning and the scope of public spending. Third time. The law provides a legal basis for action to possibly mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. Dear Members and Members! I regret to find that the Committee of the National Assembly voted yesterday after a very short discussion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. It has been noted that many comments have been made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, but if we examine these comments in more detail, we can find that a large majority of the comments are editorial or nomotechnic in nature and some systemic questions have been raised. The fact is that the purpose of the proposal is to deal with the draft law in the working bodies of the National Assembly, to examine possible systemic concerns in the content and to address any technical shortcomings in the text. And this could and could also be done when this proposal is addressed by law, as in many other cases in any of the previous mandates. At the same time, it was pointed out that the submission of this law exceeded the Government's leaving powers. Let me recall what I mentioned earlier that the submission of this law was agreed between the leaders of the parliamentary parties. It also points to the practice of adopting emergency measures to deal with the financial or economic crisis, as well as with the transition from one mandate to another – at the end of 2008. The rejection of this bill could, I repeat, have direct negative effects on the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in international financial markets, as well as on the situation of Slovenian financial institutions and companies in these markets. One of the reasons for lowering the ratings of Slovenia and our financial institutions by international credit rating houses is also the unclear medium-term plan of public financial consolidation in the country. With this bill, we could give a clear signal as to how we will address this problem and how intensively we will ensure the sustainability of public finances. It should be borne in mind that the proposal for a law is only a first step, and a number of implementation steps must be followed in many other areas. Dearly noted, taking into account all the foregoing, I suggest you reconsider whether the decision to suspend the legislative procedure with this bill is indeed a decision in accordance with the statements we have heard in the past days and those days in this area and for the good of this country. I propose that the decision adopted yesterday by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u30	Thank you, Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Members of the National Gazette will support the Committee's proposal, which says that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act is inappropriate for further consideration. I'd like to list some of the reasons why we made this decision. For the first time, I would say that if we had adopted this law quickly, the situation in public finances would not have improved completely. The second thing I feel is that it is imperative to give a new government that will be responsible and will regulate and plan public finances in the coming years so that it can review this bill, so that it can be supplemented or also determined if some of the items adopted by law are correct. I have nowhere to see the exact state of the whole country's debt, whether it is already more than 48%, or if there is anything else that we do not know, and if we are to adopt a law to set this limit of maximum possible debt, it could be incorrect. It is also about debt, where we ask ourselves whether the 20% cap, or the limitation of the law, is too high or too low. Therefore, it would be right for the new government to prepare amendments to this law and propose it in the National Assembly for adoption, as this provides a framework for what and how public finances will be dealt with further. There's one more thing I'd like to say. We have taken two initiatives to limit public spending. We also have a proposal, in a way, to write down in the Constitution that the maximum debt of the country and the guarantees can be – 48% is set. We're still talking about whether we're going to do this, or whether we're going to write it down, and it's only right to make it clear where we're going to write it. We all know that debt has to be stopped and spent as much as we create. Next thing. We see that in this area Europe is quite active and is preparing further measures to sort of regulate the business of individual national fiscal problems and how this will be planned, how it will be monitored and how those who do not act as they have committed themselves to their acts will be punished. Our law enforcement service has had a lot of comments. Marriage would be difficult to correct with amendments so that it would be appropriate. He particularly angered me when I read the law more precisely, the information that it can be taken out of this framework, as it will be adopted, and that public finances can be decided without restriction on additional investments and guarantees in our financial sector. It really seems very inappropriate for me to come up with such a proposal at all, because until I see where this money went and where these huge loans went, which the bank transferred to the economy, and I don't know where else, I think we can't grant any additional capitalisation to any additional bank. This is completely unreal. To try to put this and write it down in a law that somehow allows various recapitalisations and assistance to banks, I don't think this is the case. Also as regards the form of work that the law brings, the role of the Fiscal Council, etc., I think it is right for the new government to decide whether it needs it, how it needs it, where this Fiscal Council should work: within Parliament or within the government. This needs to be checked. Therefore, I think there are enough reasons and no harm in not supporting the law as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u33	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the views of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Act. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Our main point, which we had in DeSUS, was that the proposaler wanted to transfer the Fiscal Council to the power of the National Assembly, which, according to our assessment, was neither an effective nor an appropriate solution. We also believe that only the text of the bill has been written quite superficially and incompletely, since the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has commented on more than half of the articles. We are confident that the allegations that this bill will not be accepted by international financial markets are not in place because, given the predicted change in the constitution by incorporating the Golden Fiscal Rule, Slovenia will prove that we will face the crisis with all seriousness. As has already been said, the Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a decision that the bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u34	Thank you. Mikhael Prevc has the word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, again. Your Honor! In fact, this amendment to the law is also a proposal that was tabled last autumn, but was preceded by the then dissolution of the National Assembly. At that time, the law did indeed follow the thinking of most parties, at least in the context of limiting public debt and making public guarantees, to set clear legal frameworks for public debt. Today, however, the political situation is somewhat different. It was precisely weeks ago that all parliamentary parties agreed to clearly write down the ceiling of public debt and define the level of public guarantees in the Constitution. This proposal for a new law is also about, as is the case with previous development planning, certain solutions that the outgoing government has put forward in the framework of public finance management and management. We believe they did it at least a year, if not two, three years too late. At present, a new government is forming, and I hope that it will prepare its priorities in the public financial area as well. It would be sad that this very law-going government would leave as part of its infamous legacy the state of public finances. In the Slovenian People's Republic we have almost all of the previous mandate warned that there is not so much problem in the absolute amount of Slovenian public debt, but in its upward trend. The fact that some governments have succeeded in doubling the public debt of the country in just three years should simply never happen again. No one has a mandate for such a move, unless, of course, it is an extremely specific state of emergency. While we continue to think in the Slovenian People's Party, we are even further than simply limiting government debt. We will look for solutions that, in a way, at a time of high economic activity, would commit the current policy to create certain reserves or that sometimes, when economic growth is high, actively work to reduce the volume of government debt. The same applies to State guarantees. Times in global capital markets are turbulent. In the area of the European Union, many things can happen, and in this regard also investments guaranteed by the State can quickly turn into a real financial burden of an already weak budget. Therefore, caution is also necessary in the field of State guarantees. However, the following should be made clear. The new coalition, which includes the Slovenian People's Party, has committed itself to saving and rationalising. Slovenia simply cannot afford that much financial expenditure for current consumption. Cheap money in the external markets has finally been unlocked, and we are very well aware that the times when we spent two billion euros more than our economy created are irrevocably over. Therefore, the opposition’s fears are all too great to be inadvertent and, by rejecting this law, we leave open doors in any way to any further increase in budget expenditure. This coalition has promised voters and voters a more rational and efficient country that will create an environment for the development of entrepreneurship, and I believe that this commitment stands or falls. We therefore expect the Slovenian People's Party's Group to regulate the matter in a constitutional way, so we do not see any reason for the adoption of this law. This will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u36	Thank you. The word is given by Joseph Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Dear Secretary of State! In Novi Slovenije, we welcomed the decision of the Presidents of Parliament on 17 January this year that the National Assembly will consider a package of six laws sent by the current government in the procedure. At that time, it showed that until the new Slovenian government, it was still very far away and probably no one knew that we would get a mandate holder on 28 January. Therefore, the agreement of the Presidents of Parliament was logical, particularly given that Slovenia has not implemented the measures necessary for a six-month period due to difficult international and domestic financial and economic conditions. These laws are supposed to address some of the key challenges. I think today is the right time for the Slovenian public to say that the Presidents of the parliamentary parties, when deciding that the National Assembly is considering a six-law package, have not committed themselves to the adoption of laws. Presidents of parliamentary parties do not simply pass laws themselves. In Slovenia we have parliamentary democracy and laws are adopted exclusively in this house, in the National Assembly, but not in Villa Podružnik, which is a very suitable house, but only for the principled political coordination that has been quite useful in the past for Slovenia. The presidents of the parliamentary parties also unanimously decided at the political summit to call on the parliamentary groups to amend the Constitution and to write into the constitution the golden rule of the country's highest permitted debt. All of these agreements have been or are being implemented by the presidents of the parliamentary parties. We are considering the package by the outgoing government of the proposed laws, the National Assembly has already set up a Constitutional Commission, which will address the issue of fiscal rule as a priority and seek optimal constitutional solutions for dictatorship in the constitution of the so-called golden rule, by which public debt must not exceed a certain amount. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the legalization of public debt restrictions in the sustainable framework of adjustments to the requirements of the European Union, although more than the level of the public debt of the Slovenian State should be a concern to its growth dynamics and its unwillingness to give up on excessive costs and consumption. We believe that the general crisis is not due to state debts, but because of developments and irregularities in the financial sector, and the consequences are expected to be resolved through state debt and constraints. In Novi Slovenija we are committed to limiting uncontrolled spending and to a more appropriate approach to saving, and we believe that the problem cannot be solved only with the limitations enshrined in the law. We are convinced that attention should be paid to measures already taken that have not been implemented effectively and sufficiently, as the Court of Auditors also points out in its documents. A more detailed analysis of public procurement would undoubtedly suggest the possibility of achieving the targets and greater savings with less spent resources. The warning also applies in relation to the country's return on poor state assets, and it is not expected to produce better results unless there is increased responsibility for decision-making and supervision. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, by rejecting the amendment of the Public Finance Act, nothing dramatic has happened for Slovenia and therefore Slovenia will not receive even worse ratings. The key positive signal for Slovenia to the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund is certainly the fact that in Slovenia we will have a new government with full powers within a few days that will take responsibility for public finances into its own hands and will probably soon propose a completely new law on public finances. This justifies our rejection of the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act and today's vote for the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u38	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, President, Madam Secretary of State! The Public Finance Act was adopted for the first time in 1999 and has been minimally corrected several times. Yesterday, the Finance Committee said that the law needed to be completely recast. We can agree, but it will probably take some precious time, which we do not have if we want our people and our country to do us good. Let me remind you. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act, prepared by the Government in departure, was forwarded to the National Assembly in accordance with the agreement of all parliamentary parties or the President and President of our parties. They agreed to prepare a package of laws that are necessary and could have a positive impact on the situation in our country. In view of yesterday's developments on the Committee on Finance, the new coalition seems to think that the public financial crisis in Slovenia has ended since Saturday, as if we had done enough with the election of the new Prime Minister and that the financial markets would trust us more. Unfortunately, that's not the case. In view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the law, such as it is, is indeed not suitable for further consideration, but it would be possible to bring it into a form that would allow adoption if interest were of course. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the new coalition, you have made a different decision. You probably wanted to show us who the new boss is, and you have every right to do so, but besides your rights, you took on a lot of responsibility on Saturday. And because it is your responsibility, we have also left you a decision and abstained on your proposal, the SDS proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration, on yesterday's committee. It will be difficult for you to convince us that it will be bad or, hopefully not, even worse for the past government or even for officials than we have heard yesterday – officials do not decide on government policy, and you probably know that. A lot of words have been said recently on your side about what you're going to do. As has already been said, you have all the right, but also a great responsibility. I hope you're aware of her. A change to the Public Finance Act would be a positive signal that we know what needs to be done. In Positive Slovenia, we still support this change, but we are aware that an amendment should be prepared and adopted so that the law can be adopted. A new coalition, you've chosen a different path yourself. The responsibility for the state of the country will be borne by you. And if you think that the path that your President has agreed on is wrong, we will not interfere with it, and we will abstain from voting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u40	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian Democratic Party has examined the proposal of the Public Finance Act. She examined the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, examined and identified a number of substantive shortcomings, as well as the issue of debt, debt and in short the long-term decline in indebtedness in Slovenia. The Slovenian Democratic Party has therefore also proposed a conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration. This is not about any indication of muscle, this is not about the fact that someone would like to label a bill in advance as bad, but on the basis of a thorough examination of all the opinions that have been given, also the fact that there has been no social dialogue or dialogue with the social partners on this issue, we have proposed such a decision. We think it's the same. Nobody, but above all, the new coalition does not escape responsibility, we are aware that work needs to be done in a qualitative, professional and on a basis that will ensure the long-term stability of public finances in the country. The stability of public finances in the country will be based on a balanced budget or public treasury budgets and, of course, on the limitation, strict limitation, debt. After all, these are also the objectives of the European Union. In short, we don't think that the crisis is over, but we think that with some long-term policy that will provide a fiscal framework and a financial framework for the country, it is possible to convince the international public, it is possible to convince investors that credit ratings in this country will also start to grow. We are aware that this is a condition for a healthy economy, so that money will be cheaper on the market, so that companies will have lower interest rates and, of course, so that they will be more competitive on the basis of this. The contents of the law can be divided into four areas. The first area concerns the obligation to draw up a medium-term public financial framework under the European Union directive – the new government will have time for this. It is time for her to determine in her own way how and by what procedures she will prepare a public financial framework and submit it to the National Assembly. The second content framework refers to the ceiling of public financial expenditure for the next five years, 48 % of gross domestic product and the volume of guarantees which must not exceed 20 %. This number was given. It was given, I don't know, based on what kind of analysis, it was probably given as a recording of the current situation. We don't know if it was too high, too low, what was involved in this 48%. After all, we believe that a long-term downsizing of the country's debt over the entire mandate period should be done here. This would also give, I will say, greater credibility to this country in order to show the international public that it is actually serious. This will be submitted by the new government to the National Assembly and the new government will do so and, of course, within the framework of the Constitutional Commission, which is set up just to determine what kind of debt in that country and on what grounds this debt should actually be reduced; finally, to reduce the debt of the public sector or the country now worth 16 billion. The third area is the issue of the Fiscal Council. We believe that the Fiscal Council needs to be regulated so that it is more efficient than it is and that there will also be greater added value for those who decide on fiscal issues. We can also talk about a few critical sentences about the fiscal world itself. Last but not least, this law also specifies when the country does not have to comply with this criterion of 48 % of gross domestic product. We believe that this is something that does not actually follow the basic rule. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that its procedure is in fact rejected or terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u42	Thank you. And also on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats, Matthew Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u43	Respected and respected! We regret that the new coalition has rejected the amendment of the Public Finance Act. The January meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties was seen as a great opportunity by the Social Democrats to give the Slovenian policy a high consensus on the urgent measures to restore confidence in Slovenia, that we, as a country and as a community, are able to take decisions to stabilise public finances and to continue the stalled reform policy. We were pleased with the agreement reached on the expectation that this might be the first step towards a common, more integrated operation to ensure the sustainability of public finances and to restore the confidence of international financial markets in Slovenia. Part of the consensus reached was also support for the amendment of the Public Finance Act as a normative framework to prevent further public debt growth as a realisation of the fiscal rule. The parties' presidents agreed that amendments to the Public Finance Act should be treated as a matter of priority and as a matter of urgency. Now that the right-centre coalition has elected a mandate holder, is it no longer necessary to save the country? We fear that this is a continuation and in this mandate the beginning of a great gap between words and actions. The right-wing coalition has, in our opinion, decided to make a bad message. First of all, this is a bad message about it itself, as obviously political interest continues to prevail over the common benefit. However, it is also a bad message about Slovenia that, despite the consensus reached, we have missed the opportunity to clearly define the fiscal rule in the key law governing public finances. Today, too, there is no longer any doubt in the financial markets about the value and importance of trust. However, trust begins with respect to the agreement reached. The adoption of the amendment to the Public Finance Act is seen as necessary to establish rapid and decisive fiscal consolidation in accordance with the agreements of the European Council. With the adoption of this novel, Slovenia would quickly approach the confidence restaurant and send a clear message to the domestic and international public that we have taken one of the first necessary measures to stabilise public finances as a prerequisite for economic recovery, especially at a time when the decline of credit ratings makes our access to fresh financial resources more difficult. This Parliament has agreed with the conclusion of the fiscal pact within the European Council, and it is therefore so unreasonable that the government coalition has decided not to adopt amendments to the Public Finance Act, as this directly means preventing the introduction of the proposed provisions of the fiscal pact into the Public Finance Act. This would also be one of the first steps to create a new European economic governance as necessary to prevent new stages of the debt crisis. We think that the proposed solutions to the Public Finance Act are necessary to achieve fiscal synchronisation in the European Union in order to increase the stability of the entire euro area. We Social Democrats, in view of the comments already mentioned, with the amendment – in view of the different opinions on the sense of limiting public debt in relation to the share of gross domestic product, as well as the views of the Legislative and Legal Service – have proposed a solution that would pave the way for reducing the structural deficit in relation to the level of debt. The amendments prepared also responded fully to the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Although we do not agree with the flat-rate evidence of the failure of the law, we stress in particular that, with minimum readiness, the law could be further improved in the legislative process. Our amendments were intended for this very purpose. Obviously, we have some initial problems in this National Assembly with understanding the legislative process. It is not expected that the laws that the new government will bring to our tables will be fully coordinated so that no one will have any comments on them, but at least the Legislative and Legal Service will. You're wrong. Our task is to deal with the materials provided and, of course, also weigh the comments we will receive from the interested public and the Legal and Legislative Service. A large amount of comments does not yet mean that a law is not suitable for further consideration. By adopting the law, Slovenia would therefore establish fiscal rules for appropriate fiscal discipline in due time and at the level of the law. Since the proposed solutions will not be adopted in a timely manner, we may also face the consequences, perhaps even the fall in credit ratings. Social Democrats want and will hamper unreasonable decisions [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] we will therefore vote against the conclusion that the amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act are not suitable for further consideration, as this is how we want the law to be returned to the Finance Committee, where we will have the opportunity to improve this law accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u44	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide in the context of the vote, which will start in 15 minutes. I hereby end this agenda item and also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u45	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on development planning, the urgent procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on development planning is not suitable for further consideration. I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice I find that no, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act is not suitable for further consideration. I'm asking if anyone would like to explain their voice, please. On behalf of the delegation? No, in my own name. Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] Anyone else in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Lucky Meh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u46	Dear Members and Members! We're in an interesting situation. The coordination of the party presidents was that the law goes into procedure. And today someone here said we didn't have to accept it. But we did not discuss this law, nor did we discuss the previous law, nor did we discuss it. Here the coalition shows: this moment is unnecessary because we could actually discuss this law. However, I am extremely surprised at the fact that a representative of the most powerful party said that the new government has time to review and prepare everything that is necessary on public finances. However, if we have time, honourable Members and Members, until now I only think that we do not have time alone for the government to start working as soon as possible. However, if we have time, then I think we can put in a constitutional opinion on whether it is consistent with the Prosecutor's Office to place it under the Ministry of the Interior if we have time. My vote for that, of course. However, I am against this proposal being adopted, and I think it would be right to discuss and adopt the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u47	Thank you so much for explaining your voice. I'm guessing there are still requests for explanations of vote, which is why please report. Check-in is on. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u48	Your Honor! I myself will support the conclusion that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration and, of course, at this plenary session, it is only possible to speak about this decision. The debate on this law, on solutions, was held on the Committee on Finance. The law contains some sort of four content circuits. The first discusses the transposition of directives. It has been said that this transfer must be completed by the end of next year. Then a second set of issues is being stamped by the Fiscal Council and the relocation of the Fiscal Council from the government's wing to parliament. I think it is right that this should be stated by the Government, because the Fiscal Council is, in fact, a tool of the government following the current regime and it would be normal for the future government to define it. The third set of contents tanges this so-called golden rule. The presidents, as far as I can tell, agreed that a fiscal or gold rule should be included in some way, including in the constitution, for this is the Constitutional Commission, which has started its work and will probably also eventually propose either constitutional changes, or legislative changes, or both. It is kind of illogical to go ahead with this rule in the Public Finance Act before this discussion is concluded. The fourth set of issues concerns the budgetary memorandum or the corresponding other plans for medium-term public finance planning, which, of course, once again strains the future government. I mean, sir, we don't have the time, just like the previous government didn't have it. According to my assessment, these laws are nothing more than the pierre of the outgoing government, which, just before the laborers, wanted to determine a slightly nicer impression and nothing more important to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I myself will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision, namely that this law is not suitable for a follow-up procedure, mainly because I believe that the new government must determine its own scope in the way it will work and also, of course, the public financial framework and, of course, has so much time to draw up a budget balance. I don't think this time can be measured in months either, maybe within a few weeks, in order to provide, in that time, for a coalition agreement, what will be the fiscal framework, what will be the debt over the next period, what will be the deficit or surplus of the budget and, of course, to adapt to this all the basic acts on the basis of which this fiscal framework is established and on which it also works. Here I am thinking mainly of the budget rebalancing. I think this is the right thing to do, and I think it is right that this government, the incoming government, sets up and proposes to the National Assembly, the entire economic and financial policy. Of course, we will determine whether these proposals are acceptable or not and decide on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I understand there are still requests for explanations of vote, so please sign in. Check-in is on. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u52	Respected and respected! One of the predecessors said that the package of these laws was just a pianist maneuver to improve the government's public impression on the way out. You're wrong if you think that's all this is. But you are obviously most disturbed by the fact that perhaps at the end of this three-year term of office of the previous government, it turned out that on the one hand we had responsible authority and irresponsible opposition. We are now obviously facing a reverse situation when we have responsible opposition and irresponsible authority. It is wrong to interpret those who defend the view that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This law is, if you think that cities are experiencing inconsistencies, the legislative process can be rectified. This is also what we have been working towards, so that, if you want, in strengthening mutual trust in this House, you will listen to comments and find the best solutions. Therefore, at the time of the amendments that were tabled, we also had large-scale amendments in the drawer, which also responded to the views of the Legislative and Legal Service. But look when we're talking about the positions around the Fiscal Council. Social Democrats understand the functioning of the Fiscal Council so far as to be extremely welcome that the Fiscal Council has so far pointed out many things and, of course, has also been setting a mirror for the government to adopt economic policies. In line with agreements at European level, the Fiscal Council must be an independent body. The past shows that the new coalition, of course, also has a problem with independent institutions and may be one of the problems. It is not about how the new government should set a framework for its operation; it is about how we will all push together in this national assembly for a more successful economic recovery in Slovenia. At least I thought that's what this is all about. I will vote against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u54	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I have a very simple question: Why did we actually call an extraordinary meeting? This is already the sixth extraordinary session. Apparently, there's a hurry to call extraordinary meetings. We didn't actually have regular meetings in the National Assembly. This is said to be so far away that it is necessary to invoke and urgently address these laws, which we then reject so briefly — who are we actually playing with? I really want the coalition to be happy in leading the government, and to prepare everything as soon as possible, but to start talking and negotiating more seriously, and to work constructively together to get our country in a better financial position. I think that's very necessary. Let's not fool around here, and let's not play. I assure you personally that I want to cooperate with anyone who wishes this country good. We are here to make decisions, and we hope to be able to make decisions about the right things and not toss around and play, as it turns out, with all these extraordinary meetings, by refusing to pass a ping-pong ball. I won't agree with that. I'm very sorry because that's what's going on, and because we're actually passing it on to each other. I hope that in the coming days, weeks, weeks, weeks, we will also do something useful for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. As I said before, I will support the proposal on the table. Once again, I'd say we'll have nothing more or nothing less to do with it. I want to work as quickly as possible on – this is a bureaucratic action, norming in fact, as it has been said – the budget, the budget rebalancing and all those laws that are supposed to increase our newly created value, to open up jobs. That's why I don't think we're losing anything and that we need to get to work in the right place as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u58	Nice greetings, respectable vice president, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that we all finally agree in this country that the situation is very serious and that something needs to be done at the level of public spending and also done at the regulation of public finances. I am grateful to the Prime Minister, Mr Pahori, that he has convened political parties together and that political parties have reached the first condition, the real political consensus in this area is that we have a basic, responsible agreement on the seriousness of public finances in the future. Unfortunately, it's just the adoption of a document, a number, that's not enough in Parliament. We need to move forward from here to the social partners, to discuss what this really means for real life, to write it in the 2012 budget balance and finally to adopt the law, constitutional changes, constitutional law, which will also limit public application. That's why I think it's a shame that we're losing too much energy at this point, and I'm afraid we're going to get ahead of the steps that are gonna give us a headache in a month or more when we see what this really means. I also hope that the National Assembly will not make the same mistake made by the National Assembly in its previous term. We have argued and we have also renounced each other's conversation, partnership, due to the 2007 rebalancing. Do you know what we were talking about at the time, and why we argued? Is it accounting right that we have 9 million minus or 40 million plus at the end of 2007. Three years later, we worked from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 million minus. The situation is serious, and I hope that so on the side of the coalition and the opposition will be reasonable enough to really deal with this problem and take these steps, but we certainly have no time and no one is delaying these necessary procedures. I will vote in favour of this decision and hope for this readiness [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] all of us to do as we say today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Jank Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I myself will object to the proposed decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration, for a simple reason, because the content of this law is also very well summarised by an agreement within the European Union or within the euro area. Slovenia must also give as soon as possible a very clear message to international financial institutions that it is serious about managing public finances. From day to day, our position in foreign financial markets is getting worse, money is getting more expensive and if I'm monitoring discussions, especially coalitions, I have a feeling that you'll take 100 days to think about a rule that's somehow unwritten to agree on what you want or what you don't want. But this means a waste of valuable time for three months, and probably more, because if you count on the change of constitution – but let's be realistic here, the procedure for changing the constitution can run for a year, even more, in the meantime it will be necessary to make very clear decisions, which will be important starting points also for managing public finances and also for coordinating both with the social partners and with the economy. In fact, there were no major objections to this law on either side, so that if the law went forward by procedure, this dialogue could also continue. If the law is not in the process, even dialogue will not be possible, but in particular we will lose extremely valuable time and also make the economy worse, make the state worse. I will vote against this proposal because I think that the law must remain in procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-02-SDZ6-Izredna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Again, I ask, does anyone else want to explain their voice? I note that no, so I am going to vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're moving to the vote. We vote, the vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 9. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
