ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 5th regular session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended: Alenka Pavlič by 12 noon, Tamara Vont and Jožef Horvat by 12 noon. I welcome everyone here. Before we go to the 4th item of the agenda, let me remind you that on 15 January 2009 the European Parliament adopted a resolution declaring 11 July as the day of the genocide victims in Srebrenica. On this day, 17 years ago, Srebrenica, a city that was supposed to be a safe area under the auspices of the international community, fell into the hands of Bosnian Serbs under the leadership of General Mladic. What followed was the worst war crime in Europe since World War II, in which 8,000 people were killed in the coldest and most cruel manner, three consecutive generations of men. Unfortunately, we cannot resurrect the dead to life, and these events from history cannot be erased, nor can we alleviate the pain of the family members caused by this tragedy. However, we can strive to preserve our memory and thus ensure that this sad tragedy remains a reminder and warning in our memory and memory of future generations, in particular so that something like this will never happen again. In memory of all the victims of the Srebrenica massacre, I ask you for a minute of silence. / minute silence/ We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of the Lottery of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Culture, Science and Sport of Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Slovenian sport is financed in an important part by gambling, and these are the resources that are not only being reduced during the current savings period. With the proposed changes, we want to make it possible for these funds to be shared more wisely and shared more effectively. It is smarter to increase the impact and responsibility of industry sports associations in order to prevent conflicts of interest and the involvement of political party officials in decision-making. However, we increase efficiency by significantly appreciating the operation of the Sports Foundation. The Sports Foundation is a person of public law and distributes money from concessions of gambling operators, i.e. lotteries. This money has also been waived by the State budget in favour of financing sports organisations. Public money should be taken care of in accordance with the prescribed legislation adopted by you — the National Assembly. Civil society is the recipient of these funds and, with its expertise, participates in transparent division in terms of good governance and, in the sense of good governance, public money cannot in any way be controlled by one person from one organisation, if that organisation is still so important. The legislator's purpose so far has never been to autonomously manage the Olympic Committee of Slovenia by means of a sports lottery. However, following the current law, the Slovenian Olympic Committee in the package proposes 9 out of 15 members of the Sports Foundation Council. However, in the Board of Appeal, the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee had 2 out of 3 members, i.e. a determining majority both in the decision-making body and in the Board of Appeal. You'll agree that's not the most hygienic. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law was made at a number of meetings at the Ministry responsible for sport, in discussions with representatives of athletes, trainers and in dialogue with representatives of national trade unions and sports associations, as well as in dialogue with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Most of the senior officials of Slovenian sport and representatives of sports associations welcomed more democracy in the formation of the Foundation's Council, i.e. this body that decides on the allocation of funds, and agreed on how the Sport Foundation Council will be composed from now on. The agreed selection key is as follows: 4 members will be directly elected from individual Olympic sports, 2 from team Olympic sports, 2 from municipal sports associations based on the principle of regional representation, one from Eastern, other from Western Slovenia, 2 from the field of recreation, which will be elected only from those sports associations that are mainly engaged in recreation, these are, for example, the Mountain Association, the Sport Union and so on, 2 from neo-Olympic mental sports and disabled sports, and 1 from the representatives of athletes or sportsmen, namely, 14 athletes, 2 members will be proposed by the municipalities and only 1 member will be proposed by the Government, and this will come from the Ministry of Finance. After further coordination of the amendment with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, with the Faculty of Sport, University of Ljubljana, it was decided that the procedure for the selection of the proposals of these 14 members of the Foundation Council should be more detailed by regulation. This regulation was written and adopted on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions. We have fully accepted their proposal on how these elections are to be conducted. In the organization of these bodies, the athletes will be elected to propose to the National Assembly a government body, the RS Expert Council for Sport. If I summarize briefly the essential changes regulated by the law. The Sports Foundation Council will have 17 people in the future. The amendment is proposed to allow members to be proposed to the Foundation's Council, in particular those organisations for which co-financing was originally established. These are national sports associations, sports associations of municipalities, athletes, trainers, professional workers, following a further arrangement with open leaves. I could say a few more things about it, but if I understand correctly, I'm out of time. We do not support the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats. The amendment proposed by the coalition was good or very meaningful. I propose that you adopt the amendment of this law in the existing text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u3	The draft law was treated as the parent working body of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, also on behalf of the Committee on Education, Culture, Sport and Youth, which was discussed by the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia at its 4th regular session 26. 6. 2012. The Law-Legal Service has previously examined the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal order of the State of Slovenia and has commented on Articles 2, 6, and 10. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport recommended the widest possible consensus on the adoption of these amendments. At the meeting itself, the Minister of Education said that the changes would ensure a better representation of those organisations whose co-financing was primarily established, namely national sports associations. In view of the savings and the reasons for rationalisation in the current circumstances, a greater role for the ministry is proposed. The Ministry also included some comments or recommendations from the Court of Auditors and the Commission to prevent corruption in the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law. In the context of the debate, the most comments were made on the possibility of control of resources, with some pointing out that they considered this to be a new role for the State. However, opposite opinions were also presented. There has also been quite a debate on the composition, and it has been pointed out that the current composition is appropriate. On the other hand, it was pointed out that the Assembly of the municipalities, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, would propose one member at a time, and 10 national sports associations that would thus ensure the proper representation of the organizations of those for whom it was established in the world of the Foundation. Finally, there were controversy as to the uniformity of treatment within the law itself, but it was pointed out that some were governed by specific sectoral laws and that matters were adapted to this regime. After the discussion was closed, the Committee considered the amendments and adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, and 11, while the other amendments rejected and finally adopted such an amended text as we propose to the State Committee for adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President, distinguished Minister! With changes and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia, we will finally return to sports relations the possibility of self-determination on the distribution of money for sport. In New Slovenia we particularly welcome the fact that solutions in this law will prevent policy interference in purely professional decisions in sport. In our view, daily politics has nothing to look for in sport. Slovenia has already proven that we are a nation of athletes, top athletes. This is what we want to maintain, but not to the detriment of quality and recreational sport and youth sport. Therefore, we will carefully and systematically support not only the sports path of top athletes, but also their preparation for life along the finished sports path. The proposed amendments to the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia will ensure the representation of those organisations whose co-financing was primarily established, and these are national sports associations. The other amendments will provide additional supervision of the competent ministry, rationalisation of operations or reduction of costs and improvement of participation in any changes to the Foundation's sub-laws. With the media monitoring of events in some sports associations, we are even more confident in New Slovenia that it is high time for a transparent system of rights and responsibilities to be established in sport. For all of this we will support this law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u8	Nice greeting, president, minister! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia We will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, because we are rightly afraid that the irregularities found by the Court of Auditors during the review of the Foundation may be further intensified, since it is evident that Minister Turk has a great desire to concentrate on the power of decision-making on sport in his ministry. Our warning is aimed at preventing the politicisation of sport, which is currently being carried out by Minister Turk and, of course, also those who are employed at the Ministry. He's trying to have an impact on the allocation of funds at the Sports Foundation. With a quick manoeuvre, he intervened in the composition of the Sports Council and the composition of the Sports Foundation Council. By its type of work, it has declassified the Executive Committee of OKS and has begun to refer to the leading sports workers of national sector sports associations. The minister knows very well that whoever has the money has the power. The sector leaders are aware that work with young people and top athletes has stopped without the necessary resources, so they have already partially eliminated his manners. What the ministry is doing now is a grave political interference in sport, which since independence has been the domain of the civil sphere. The proposed bill does not provide better solutions than what already exists. On the contrary. Instead of offering greater transparency and transparency to the public in the allocation of funds, it concentrates power in the ministry. It is particularly important to note that two versions of the management of two foundations are proposed in the law: FIHO, who will have a professional director and will not have any employees at any ministry, and the FSO, where the management of the foundation will be carried out by the President of the Council in a non-professional manner, and the FSO's professional services will be at the Ministry, which will thus have a major impact on the preparation of the professional basis for members of the Council who are doing their work in a loving manner. It is the wish of all Members and Members of Positive Slovenia that when laws are changed in the National Assembly, there should be no doubt that they may be inconsistent with the Constitution. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the existing legal system and has commented on Articles 2, 6 and 10. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that Article 6 of the amendment to the Act, which provides that the decision of the Board of the Foundation is final and cannot be appealed against, is not in accordance with the rules of the general administrative procedure. Article 10 drew attention to the issue of the transition of workers from the Sport Foundation to the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, which is not acceptable to them. Article 2 amends Article 10 of the Law and thus prevents individuals in our country from being appointed to the world of the Foundation. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, this doctrine is constitutionally controversial. In Article 3, the Director of the Foundation shall be removed and the management shall be transferred to the President. In 2007 the then Minister Dr. Beast professionalised the Foundation Director and thus became Mr. Balent the Professional Director. Today, however, we are witnessing a change that abolishes the director of the Foundation and powers to transfer to a non-professional president and the Foundation's professional services to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, where it is only by chance that Mr Balent is Secretary of State. The above-mentioned migration of professional services under the auspices of the Ministry is controversial for Positive Slovenia and represents too much concentration of power and gives the possibility of policy impact on the allocation of funds. The solutions offered by the amendment are only a mitigation of the bad proposal of that law, so in Positive Slovenia we cannot support the proposed amendment of the law. The existing law is better than the proposed one, but it should still be amended. Let me give the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which I received yesterday, which is precisely what I am talking about, the unconstitutionality and the possibility of corruption. The Commission also proposes this time to the National Assembly and the Government, as the proposer, that the competent ministries and the professional services jointly carry out an assessment of the actual situation and thus prepare a comprehensive proposal for a re-regulation of the two foundations to minimise the risks and, of course, the possibility of corruption. For these reasons, the Members of Positive Slovenia will not support the proposed law on Lottery of Slovenia. However, I am likely to say more about the response of the anti-corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Mateja Pučnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia relate mainly to the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, the incompatibilities of the members of the Council of the Sport Foundation, the determination of the duration of the mandate of the Foundation bodies, which provides for complaints against the decisions of the Board of the Foundation, and the revised administrative assistance for the operation of the Foundation for Sport. All these changes to the law are urgently needed and we support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Changes in the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations will ensure the representation of those organisations whose co-financing was also primarily established. These are national sports associations and thus the direct representation of athletes. The proposals for amending the law are coordinated and supported at numerous meetings and meetings with athletes with sports users with sports companies. And it is through open lists of candidates and direct elections that the foundation's composition is more democratic and thus more equitable distribution of public money. It is therefore important that sports priorities are decided by athletes, members of sports associations and experts who, through direct elections, enjoy the greatest confidence, not by a narrow stakeholder group or even by politics. With amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia at the end of 2011, the FIHO Foundation for the Financing of Disability Organisations was determined to be incompatible with the functions of the members of the Foundation, which is now stipulated by the proposed amendment of the law for the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are of the opinion that, due to the additional supervision of the competent ministry, the rationalisation of the operation or reduction of costs and the improvement of cooperation in any changes to the sub-legislative acts, administrative assistance for the operation of the foundation transferred to the competent ministry is also changing. Professional service and service in the Foundation's world will be provided by officials at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, which in fact means lower administrative costs. In the current regulation, the mandate of the members of that body which decides to appeal against the decisions of the Board of the Foundation is not determined, which in some cases has made it possible to act clientially. This may, however, be the case in matters relating to the allocation of financial resources, a dangerous approximation to non-transparent behaviour. Therefore, with the proposed amendment to the law setting out the duration of the mandate of the Authority for five years, we agree with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Your Honor! Since the draft law with the amendments adopted on the home committee does not exclude anyone, neither the Olympic Committee, nor the Faculty of Sport, and because these amendments will actually bring the law closer to sport and to sports users, increase the democraticity of sport and prevent a monopoly or conflict of interest within the foundation, we support the proposal for a change of law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u11	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! The professional and interested public draw attention to the promotion of sport. Such a conclusion is driven by the actions of the government coalition so far. It began with the fear, the failure to complete the call for the project of sports sector schools and information on the lack of funding for top athletes employed in the state administration. It continued to clean up the Sport Expert Council. At the same time, an agreement was made between the Ministry on the establishment of a new sports union as an alternative to the disturbing Olympic Committee. The following is a reduction in funds for the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, accompanied by a cynical remark that participation in the Olympics is not at risk, so that some tourist will be less in London. In the meantime, a change of legislation is being prepared in a chilling way. With the adoption of today's novelty, the sport sector will operate very centrally from one management point, namely the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. It is unusual that one person, who is at the same time in two functions, on the basis of the first such as the Director of the Board of Directors, adapts to the performance of the other as the Director. The same actors made the same manoeuvre in 2007 only in the opposite direction. Following the adoption of the novel by the Ministry of Education and Sport, Janša’s coalition became the legal director of the Sport Foundation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia announces some amendments to the umbrella acts, such as the Sports Act and the new resolution on the national sport programme. It is therefore inappropriate to intervene in this part of the civil society organisation of sport before this. If I am a little cynical, the abolition of the Sports Foundation could even be supported on the basis of the Court of Auditors' findings, if it were not to go beyond the maintenance of sport, even for a manoeuvre whereby the managing authority would avoid liability. In this regard, the President of the Sport Foundation Council convened a meeting of the Board to discuss the Director's responsibility, but was cancelled due to anticipated indiscretion. The notice of cancellation was said to have been transmitted by the Director of the Foundation. In accordance with the Foundation's rules, under Article 7, the President of the Council represents the Council and directs its work, i.e. he also convenes and leads the meetings. The Foundation Director is responsible for the operation of the Foundation and is committed to the world. But section 12 of the law states: "The Foundation's managing authority is the director. The Director organizes and manages the operation of the Foundation, represents and represents the Foundation and is responsible for the legality of the Foundation's work." And that's why we're changing this article. This was also a fundamental argument for the professionalisation of the directoral function in 2007. Now the ruling coalition is abusing the legislative process. Instead of replacing the director who did bad work, they're abolishing the post of director. The Court of Auditors found, in its 2010 business audit, a dispute in the allocation of nearly 4 million funds to the Foundation, amounting to slightly less than a third of the allocated funds. Some see the abolition of the executive function only as a manoeuvre to avoid liability. The proposer refers to the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption and proposes to postpone the adoption of the bill. In view of all this postponement of the decision, we also propose to the Social Democrats. The proposal did not address the most important concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service, nor did it explain why it insists on a proposal derogating from legal standards. The reasons for the distinction are not clearly explained and it is therefore not possible to assess compliance with the Constitution which requires equality before the law. It is not even possible to assess the proportionality of such a distinction. The solution, when the re-decision of the Foundation is also final, is inconsistent with the rules of the general administrative procedure. The transition of employees from the Foundation to the Ministry without a public tender in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is not possible or should be regulated by the appropriate addition of the law. Is there any more reason why the proposed novel for the Social Democrats is totally unacceptable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u14	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the law will ensure that in the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia the representatives of those organisations whose co-financing was primarily established. These are national sports associations. The failure to regulate the mandates of the members of the Foundation's bodies who decide on complaints against the decisions of the Foundation's Board shall be addressed, administrative assistance for the operation of the Foundation shall be changed, with a view to the additional supervision of the competent ministry, the rationalisation of operations or the reduction of costs and the improvement of participation in any changes to the Foundation's sub-laws. As with the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia also provides for the incompatibilities of the functions of members of the Board of the Foundation. Members of the National Gazette will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u15	On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In front of us is a novel of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which in part of the public, which I personally expected, caused a small storm, czech, that this amendment of the law supports the financing of sport in us, that the novel completely ignores deserving sports workers, that all civil society is excluded from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations and more. Of course that's not true. The proposed amendment of the Law on Property Conversion seeks to establish a more balanced, transparent and, last but not least, a much more democratic way of selecting members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, which decides to allocate funds to those sports organisations, athletes, trainers, which have actually set up the Foundation. In addition, the proposed amendment amends the conditions regarding the non-compatibilities of members of the Foundation's Council and provides for the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport to carry out administrative tasks for the Foundation. Unprofessionally acting as chairman of the Foundation Council is envisaged, and, last but not least, a more balanced composition of the Board of Appeal is also established. The essential amendment introduced by the proposed law is therefore a new way of appointing members of the Foundation Council. The current way of appointing members – we cannot say 'election' – because in the elections every vote counts – when the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia decides only on a package of candidates going through the board of the Olympic Committee, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, it is not transparent, not democratic, but also ultimately does not ensure the balanced representation of national sports associations in the foundation's world. Undoubtedly, the proposed method of appointment is by which national and municipal sports associations and athletes and trainers or sports professionals will elect the 14 members of the Foundation Council, which will then be referred to the National Assembly by the Section of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, much more balanced and democratic than is the current way. On the basis of the proposed regime, national sports associations will be better placed, as their voice will be heard and actually be valid. Unlike now that some sports associations have the right to vote at the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, their vote is worth no points, if I say so in sports jargon. I would also like to draw attention to the event at the last meeting of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, where the candidates for members of the Sports Council were voted on. There was a vote on the closed list of candidates prepared by the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee, while the other candidates were eliminated before the creation of the so-called closed list. It is worth mentioning, however, that four newly elected members are the same people who resigned from the functions of the Sports Council several months ago at the time of the large media pump. The reason for their resignation at the time was the dissatisfaction with the dismissal of the two members of the expert council by the Government, and their participation in the expert council was also expected to be greatly hampered by alleged pressures. Well, apparently there is also a short period of time for the wound, or 4 out of 5 insulted members of the professional council after a good month at the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia would not be competing again for cities in the professional sports world – understand who can! Let me go back to the proposed law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not agree in any way with some who talk about the threat of Slovenian sport and its maintenance if the proposed amendments are adopted. On the contrary. With the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, sports organisations and industry associations alone will have the greatest word in their possession of the funds financed by Slovenian sport, without such or other intermediaries. In our view, it is only possible to establish a balanced system of financing sport, which will allow our present and future sports champions the optimum conditions for achieving the highest results. We will therefore gladly support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! The proposed changes and additions to this law have raised a lot of dust in the spirit of the belief of some that the new regime will mean maintaining sport or maintaining control over the means for the operation of Slovenian sport. We have also had many concerns and questions in our parliamentary group regarding the text of the proposed law, particularly in the drafting phase of the bill. Thus, we had doubts that the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in their function of distribution of funds received by the Lottery of Slovenia were practically identical to the institution and the proposal for a law introduced a different regime concerning the incompatibility of the functions of the members of the Council, the appellate body and the organisation of management. In this regard, we still believe that these are areas that need to be properly regulated for both foundations, so we expect changes to the FIHO regime as well. The most controversial change would be the withdrawal of the powers of the Olympic Committee to propose to be appointed to the National Assembly now seven members of the Foundation's Council. The competence to propose candidates for the world is taken over by the Section Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. Given that the law and the future regulation provide very precisely for the course of the selection of candidates by electing directly from national sports unions and by the key, which provides that all sports sectors are represented, with the election in cooperation conducted by the Olympic Committees and the expert council, we have no fear of political recruitment in the DeSUS Group. It is essential that candidates for members of the Foundation's Council be loved directly by the national sports associations of individual sports sectors. This means that the democratic composition of the Council is being increased and that a higher level of representation of the organisations for which the organisation was established is being introduced. It is also important that an increase in the number of members coming directly from the field of sport contributes to the democratic process in the composition of the world. The Olympic Committees are now proposing themselves 7 members, with 10 members from this area following a new proposal. Membership of the local or regional representation of sport is also strengthened and a representative of athletes and sports coaches is added. As has been seen, representatives of sports organisations and professional athletes also support changes as they advocate a direct impact on decision-making when cutting out funds and on a balanced distribution. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the law is appropriate, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. This debate will be held on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2012. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and both amendments to Article 1. One was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and the other by the Group of the Social Democrats. Now I'd like you to sign up for the debate. Check-in is on. I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Bikar, followed by Mrs Mateja Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u20	Good-bye. Respected and respected! Again, we all agree that the policy should not interfere with sport, and so is my personal opinion. It is the policy's duty to provide people with the conditions for them to be able to engage in sport and to provide high-quality conditions for high-quality athletes to achieve the best results. I also personally agree with this and the position of Positive Slovenia is so. The minister says only one member proposes to the government, if I understand correctly. Only one member proposes to the Government, and the expert council approves those 14 members of the national industry. But the expert council of the government itself, it is said that this is not true that only one member proposes to the government. What else bothers me? The law stipulates that not all those who have any of the responsible functions in sports organisations or companies in Slovenia, which are more than 7 000, cannot be members of the Sports Foundation Council. So, does it say that the money that's going to be distributed in sports is going to be decided by the officials or by someone? I don't know. My opinion is that the money that will be shared in sports should be decided, taken by those who know each other in sports. So much for one of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Matthew Puchnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that again. On a proposal for amending the law, opposition Members shall submit two amendments to Article 1, which shall refer to the amendment of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The first amendment provides for the deletion of this article and the second amendment does not essentially bring about those desired changes. And such a proposal, as we have already amended and adopted on the parental committee, is appropriate and appropriate, because we do not actually interfere with sport, but advocate a fairer representation of athletes, for a more equitable distribution of financial resources. And in this case, we are not talking about a few thousand euros, but about a few 10 million euros of public money. Since civil society is the recipient of these funds, these funds cannot in any way be by the domain or control of one or more individuals. Open lists, direct elections also allow for the election of those people who will represent the wider interest of sport. And it was with representatives of athletes, sports unions, sports committees, the Olympic Committee, with representatives of coaches, national sports associations, not only those who are engaged in top sports, but also those who are involved in youth and children sport, that talks, dedication and consultation have been held since March this year. All these changes have supported, which means that something really needs to be changed in this area. The proposal to change the foundation does not exclude anyone, such as the obvious opposition, not the Olympic Committee, nor the Faculty of Sport. After all, all national sports associations that have agreed to change are also members of the Olympic Committee. The Faculty of Sport will also be able to participate in elections, not only in Ljubljana, but also in the Faculty of Education from Maribor and the Faculty of Kinesiology from Kopra. In this case, no one will be pushed away. And so it is, because it is those top experts, the most educated sports professionals that come from college. The opposition's perceptions of supporting sport are also unjustifiable and unfounded, as I do not personally recall that sport would ever be privatised. This is essentially nonsense, since the country is also putting more than 40% of the direct public funds into the budget of the Olympic Committee, through state-owned companies, that contributes to the salaries of the employees of the Olympic Committee and the Association of Sports. It would be hard to talk about sports in this place. However, I am sure that by amending the law we will prevent inappropriate public accounting, which we were able to monitor through the media a few weeks ago when the ski union of Slovenia and the Olympic Committee fought. It's over. Unfortunately, the opposition's amendments cannot be supported because the state is the one and the National Assembly is the one responsible for sport democracy and precisely with this change in the law on the composition of the foundation's world, as is now written down, including the civil sphere, changing the relationship between individual sports unions and the Olympic Committee in favour of the transfer of influence on individual sports associations, which in fact leads to the democratisation of sport, preventing the monopoly of individual actors and conflicts of interest within the foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u23	Mr. Franz Pukšič, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! One sentence could tell you what the amendment of this Lotteria law brings. In one sentence, it could be said that it brings more influence to all national sports associations and less political influence. Or else, he's bringing money for contractors, not for officials. Of course, colleagues and colleagues who do not support this law are fighting to keep the centralisation as usual. Some of them were close to this summit and made decisions. That's what they were doing at the trough, and they kept quiet from this trough. It is clear, however, that the voices are raised by those who fall away from this trough. On the other hand, we receive dozens of support for this law. From who? It's from the performers. I can be very specific, I will not support the amendment of Positive Slovenia, not by any means. However, the amendment of the Social Democrats shows the favour of amending this law, and I like that. This has been made clear because clearly the Social Democrats are aware that centralisation has brought us to the brink of collapse, in all areas. And even in this sport area, there is an extreme time when the crisis, when it has to be saved, has to be saved from those officials, i.e. in paying for tourism, if we go like this, because the functions they perform, however, should be more honorable and should be done by those who have earned it with their work, not by those who want to serve on this account. So this proposal for a law that we're preparing and adopting is the right solution, and no one can say that it's less democratic, it's a democratic way to do it, where 17 is made up of 14 plus 3. So 14 of the National Sports Unions. Many industries, especially from the periphery, did not have any opportunity in history to come close at all, or even to propose to anyone to control things. The president of the Maribor Sports Association, a well-deserved professor, Dr. Alojz Križman, told us that the decisions that are ahead of us are too important for the development of Slovenian sport as a whole, so it is no longer possible to guide them through the already-run quasi-democratic paths. And colleagues and colleagues, the quasi-democratic paths will end this way too! I remember in 2005 when I was Secretary of State for Slovenians in place and around the world. Previously, four roof organisations received funds from the office. Then those four roof organizations were divided into hundreds of individual operators in their neighbouring country. Well, at the time, we said that it would not happen again, and we called for individual contractors to apply themselves and we decided at the office how and what. At first, the dissatisfaction was the very leadership of roof organizations, because you took away their scissors and canvas or you gave them a canvas, they had scissors, and the artist’s great satisfaction. And clearly, a substantial amount of money ran into where it had to be. I'm happy, and with my predecessor, colleague Alenka Bikar, I absolutely agree that the money must come from the contractors. She was one of them, and she knows exactly what went wrong. I will support the proposed law, I will oppose the amendments, and I am sure that this is the direction in which we must continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u25	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, behind him mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u26	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The current situation is certainly better than this novel law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije brings. The amendment of the law has one purpose: it has a political impact on the allocation of funds. This is not only my opinion, but also the opinion of those who are significantly better acquainted in this area. Intervention into the civil society organisation of sport in the manner envisaged by the ruling coalition leads to unacceptable politicisation of sport, increasing the impact of policy on sport. The transfer of administration and competences to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport means maintaining sport, as it involves, inter alia, depriving the Olympic Committee. It is true that democracy, as someone mentioned earlier in the presentation, is increasing, but it is now moving from the civil society sphere of democratic decision-making to the sphere of political democratic decision-making. The professional world of sport will elect those who will be liked by the current ruling coalition or politicians in a democratic way, as we know in Slovenia when appointed to the councils of other public institutions. The number, as Mr Pukšič mentioned earlier, is indeed increasing, but the number does not mean that there are more, that decision-making will also be fairer. The number of members is not important; it is important to have a political independence and expertise of all members and members of the Council. We know what we've named in the world of the public service of RTV and so on. All members elected under the main influence of the policy are also responsible in some way, or at least the public opinion is so. And even if we arouse in public the feeling that those who make decisions about such an important part of our lives as sports are wrong, something is wrong. Politics should be as far away from this sphere as possible or as far away as possible, so that citizens and citizens do not feel that money is being shared as is liked by the current ruling policy. That's the problem. Look, even though, Mr. Minister, your purpose may not be the same, it may be that your purpose is also fair, but in public it creates this feeling. Politics gives a clear signal. This is the message you're giving. That is why I think it would be good for policy not to interfere as directly as it is now predicted, and I do not know why such a rush is again in this area. Apparently, where money smells, politics also wants to have as close to the fingers as possible to me as I think it is not fair and proper – the area of sport must be independent. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u27	Mag. Majda Potter. Behind her is Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, let me say again that we are discussing money that is not budgetary, but that it is flowing as a share of the lottery funds. This is not budget money, these are extraordinary funds, but now the decision on these funds will move from the civil sphere to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, because the management apparatus of the Foundation at the Ministry will not be the one to decide this, but the organisation will be deprofessionalised. That's the first thing to say. Second thing. The amendment that we have tabled is the same as the one that distributes which sports associations delegate to the foundation's world, except that civil society is the one that proposes to the 13-member National Assembly, not the 14-member Sports Council. Let me explain why. Look, the sport world is a government consultative body. That this body is called at the will of every government, let me explain only by the fact that the government has dissolved 128 worlds and interdepartmental working bodies and appointed them by its own. She also solved those members of the sports world called the Olympic Committees. Therefore, those who are scandalizing that the Olympic Sports Committee has appointed the same persons as before have only reaffirmed their representation or their will as originally expressed. The Sports Council is a government consultative body, and this government consultative body will elect 14 of those appointed by the National Assembly. There will indeed be proposals for the sport world, but the sport world will forward them as its proposal to the National Assembly. So it's a double filter. And now, look, those who say that even local communities won't have a chance, all of this is represented in our amendment. What I stress once again, by separating our amendment from the government version, is that, according to our civil society, it is the one who is submitting the proposal, either through a government proposal or through a coalition that you are so strongly defending, that it is the most democratic way, but it is a government advisory body. Another difference to be pointed out here is that under point D, although this should be point C, one member on the proposal of sports coaches, on the proposal of other sports professionals, while sports coaches and other sports professionals elect this member themselves, instead we propose that someone named the Faculty of Sport be proposed to the world of the Foundation. So we have an address book, not scattered individuals, when we don't know who's going to do this procedure, who's going to be the one who's going to propose maybe another sheep breed society or what I know. It is simply that things are left to the sports spheres that educates coaches. Well, I think there's something else to say in this part. If you look across Europe, they are organised elsewhere to represent the civil sport sphere as we are, the Olympic committees and the association of sports associations, whether they unite both in a small part or have some olympic committees individually and other associations of sports associations separately. That's one way to go. Interestingly, the Germans we like to refer to are now joining sports unions and the Olympic committees. When you so vehemently claim that the transparency of the allocation of funds will be increased, the funds, I say again, are lottery funds and are not budgetary. Now the world will decide on them for sport, for he will be given this opportunity to appoint a large majority, to propose to the National Assembly. The Ministry shall be composed of the person responsible for these matters and at the same time all those providing administrative and technical support. And one more thing, the only appeal body is the Sports Foundation, there is no other appeal body. All decisions are final. This is against the principles of administrative procedure. This was pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, and the coalition that had the opportunity to change it on its parent labour body has peacefully overlooked it and has not tabled any amendments. In the same way as it did not submit everything related to the transfer of staff from the Sport Foundation, which is not a state institution, it is also not an organ in the body, but it is supposed to be an independent body, an independent institution. And now it's going to go to the Ministry without a call. If this is transparency, let him understand who can! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. The minister, Dr. Turk, spoke after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. You know, because we've been monitoring the activities of the Sports Foundation in the past, and a lot of good has been done by the Foundation. The funds allocated by the Foundation to sport for the construction of infrastructure, for the promotion of high-quality sport, for crowds were still well used and it was good. The Court of Auditors has only drawn attention to the criteria for the completion of the criteria. And today we are witnessing such changes, which certainly are not for the sake of democratic decision-making and transparency in the allocation of funds. Look, we said the first article should be deleted. Of course, we are also against this law being adopted as such, but we are not against the law starting to change, but in particular, professionally and in such a way that the Law-Legal Service will not have such comments that the law is unconstitutional, as well as the Anti-Corruption Commission, that it will not have any comments which I will mention below. The Council of Experts shall give an opinion or even proposals for the appointment of members. Look, I have a magnetogram here, but I'm not going to talk about names that say, "SLS has a government in the professional world for the sport of its representative, Dr." and so on, "which can do a lot in terms of regulating your pressing problem." This is concrete when a colleague spoke earlier about some concrete ones, but I have not heard of them. Look, OKS is the domain of the civil sphere. If someone doesn't like the way OKS works, then the civil sphere has to change that, those people who do sports and want sports well. I worked alone for 30 years in sports, and I didn't live out of it. And I'm helping out today if I have to. But today, as a politician, of course, I distance myself from such and different functions so that no one would tell me that politics interferes with sport. And this is the story where everyone has to see and focus somehow. So that no one would think that any of us has anything against the Minister or against the Secretary of State, I will read the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, which I received yesterday at my request that the Anti-Corruption Commission give an opinion on this proposal to the Act, "the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal of Article 10 of the Law on the Lottery of Slovenia is also understood as part of a broader issue of conflict of interest and grounds for suspecting violations of certain acts of corruption under Article 1(4) of the Integrity Act..." and so on, "the Commission has pointed out to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it is 15. 3. 2012 Director of FSH mag. Draga Balenta appointed V.D. Director of the Directorate for Sport at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. The fact that mag. The public balance acts as the director of the Directorate for Sport at the Ministry and is also recognised in this role by natural and legal persons in the field of sport, according to the Commission, by circumstances in which the private interest of an official influences or creates the appearance of having an impact on the impartiality and objective performance of its public tasks, which are, in other words, the legal signs of a conflict of interest. In this regard, the proposed regulation of Article 10 of the Law only further confirms the applicant's obvious intention to confirm by adopting this proposal for a readmission, which the applicant has already carried out by appointing the director of the FSO instead of the Director of Sport and by proposing Article 10 of the Act, leaving the FSO to employ its administrative co-workers to the Ministry. The circumstances in which the legislator is obviously placed solely in a position to legalise, which the executive branch has already decided, with its decisions in itself expressing the risk of corruption and conflicts of interest, are contrary to what the legislator intended to achieve when, in Article 1 of the Law on Integrity, it points out the importance of strengthening the functioning of the rule of law in the field of legislative and regulatory activity." There's plenty more of that. We didn't make that up. And here today, when we adopt laws, we must be careful because we are all Members here committed not to accept unconstitutionality, if this is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, and if this has been warned by the anti-corruption commission. Let's take the time, and so it is written in the end, I will repeat: "This time the Commission also proposes to the National Assembly and the Government as a proponent that the competent ministries and the professional services jointly carry out an assessment of the actual situation and thus prepare a comprehensive proposal for a re-regulation in the field of the operation of the two foundations with the aim of limiting risk exposure to the greatest extent possible." Look, that's all this is about. I believe, Mr. Secretary, that you are not so corrupt that you would like to politicize the matter. But, look, this is all pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Commission, which is also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. What am I afraid of? That complaints will fly to the Constitutional Court. I'm afraid of that, and then it'll get complicated – the funds that the foundation should put on the field for athletes, relationships, etc., will stand because there will be a complaint. The complaint will hold, and what will happen? Sportsmen, sports workers, or sportsmen will not get the resources they urgently need. It is true that these are the resources now available, are not budgetary resources and can yet be used to help sport in this burning situation. Therefore, I propose that you wait and prepare a comprehensive law and not rush and make mistakes, as has now been shown in the Public Finance Balance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u31	The word is Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Both amendments and most of these debates, in particular from this point of view, are actually defending the existing operating system of the Olympic Committee and the links with the Council of the Sport and Distribution Foundation. What is this existing system? This existing system is that a majority of the Olympic Committee chooses to set up a decisive majority in the Sports Foundation. This decisive majority of the Sports Foundation decides who the sports associations will receive the funds. These happy sports associations, which receive the funds of the Sports Foundation, choose to set up a decisive majority on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. In short, we have a nice triangle of people who are actually very pleased with each other, and you are obviously pleased with them. If anyone has a complaint, there is a complaint committee in which the majority — guess who? – again that majority of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Maybe in all this there would be some big advantage, because someone would say, "I do, there is no policy here, it's some completely apolitical thing, otherwise there's some big happy family, but they're non-political." Excuse me, I hope that no one here is so naive as to say that the summit of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is an eminent example of non-politicalism here in the Republic of Slovenia. What do we do now, what is it now that you think is going to be some enormous policy impact on all of this? This Council of the Foundation, which decides on the funds, decides on the funds of the Council and not on the Director, this Council of the Foundation will be democratically elected in open elections by athletes, the deciding majority, i.e. all but three will be elected democratically by athletes. In order to have no doubt about the democraticity of these procedures, we have written that the procedures for these elections will lead together – yes, indeed, the Government Council of Experts for Sport, but also the Olympic Committees of Slovenia and also the Senate of the Faculty of Sport in Ljubljana. When all of this is gathered together, the formal act of writing, the letter to the National Assembly, will be consulted by the Sports Council. So there's no freedom to read anyone, no choice. Mr Kavtičnik, you have made many mistakes, and after reading the letter from the Court of Auditors, you have correctly summarised Mr Balent is not the Secretary of State. In a way, it is a fortunate circumstance for Mr Balent to suspend his job, because if he had abolished another job, this person would have done a great deal of cowing, too, why it is necessary. Mrs. Bikareva mentioned a conflict of interest. You are Members here, and at some point you decided that the mayor could not be a Member, but there were, as you would say, no specific charges, problems, but you felt that those who could be recipients, direct officials who would receive the funds provided by the National Assembly, could not sit in this assembly. And we're introducing something like this here. Those who are officials of organisations who will receive funds from the Foundation cannot sit in this Foundation. Experts, who can provide professional assistance to this foundation, but are beyond the officials of individual relationships, you will agree with this very much. I think that, Mrs Potrata, it was insulting to all the other departments of higher education organisations involved in sports, past the Ljubljana Faculty of Sport, that you compared them with sheep protection companies. As regards the observations made by the Court of Auditors. Yes, they need to be read carefully. In particular, the Sports Foundation must read them carefully. One fundamental point that certainly makes sense is that the criteria are too clear that the criteria are too low. But it must be acknowledged to Mr Balent that he was the first one to lay down any criteria, but that it had been done in the first place. And, of course, we have to keep going this way. Once again, it is necessary to read the founding acts or regulations of these bodies, the law, and you will find that the allocation of funds is not decided by the Director, the Director only implements the decisions of the Board of the Foundation. And if there are comments about the wrong operation, then this applies in particular to the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u33	Replica, mag. Majda Potter. Then the debate of Mr Jožef Jerovska. Replica also Mr. Kavtičnik. Magus first. They waste, then Mr. Kavtičnik and then Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you can be attributed that I would like to speak about the Faculty of Education or the Faculty of Philosophy in Maribor or the University of Primorska as a society for sheep breeding. In the mandate of the previous Janša government, the ovine breed society appointed members to the Programme Council. And this comment I made was that, in principle, the current government can appoint anyone on behalf of anyone. It is regrettable, however, that you take the right to decide on the sport of the civil sphere. But I'll discuss everything else. So I don't have to apologize to my former colleagues at the University of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u35	Mr. Cavticnik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you, Minister, for fixing me. There has been a mistake, but not such that it would be substantive, that is, the director of the Directorate, not the secretary of state. As far as the criteria are concerned, you know, there were criteria before, so we wouldn't think the foundation had worked without criteria before. They were criteria, but they were complemented. And that's the way it is. However, not enough has been found, and the Court of Auditors has also found that. And something should be done on the criteria. This is where we go into marriage and make it what it is. And it is not acceptable for the Legislative-Legal Service and is not acceptable for the Anti-Corruption Commission – we warn – not for us, not for Jozet or Peter or anyone here in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u37	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Together, the two amendments we are currently discussing are the struggle to preserve the positions and privileges of the political option currently in the opposition. Through the Olympic Committee, or the political option had — and still has — one of the most powerful levers of influence on society’s events. For this reason, with all the obvious, the observations we have heard, I was just waiting for someone to accuse the government and the current coalition of changing this law of opening up ideological themes. Although this is in fact an ideological theme, ideology is a fundamental bond that defines some of the most influential members of the Olympic Committee and the most lasting and eternal. For this reason, this fight, and this extraordinary struggle to preserve these privileges, is understandable from the point of view of society and athletes, for which all these institutions are at least taking part for the form, is good for something to change here. We know that in institutions that have remained unchanged for years and decades, both organisational and human resources, this is a great opportunity for customerism, which is sooner or later, and it is huge around the Olympic Committee. The fact is that the Olympic Committees, after these long-standing members of the informal court around the uncles of the background, such as Mr Židan, have expressed themselves before the elections that this is an extraordinary relic of this ideology and of this policy, which is currently in opposition. But the task of our Members is to share money from lottery funds, these are public funds, because this is what citizens contribute most democratically to direct as much money as possible to the development of sport, in support of athletes. There are many former athletes on the Olympic Committee, but everything is already so instrumental that it is done and done exactly what is also politically lit and not by anyone, but by politics. As a result, it is obvious that politics is now interfering, irrelevant. This certainly reduces the impact of politics, because at least during this period I believe that this world will be deceived, that sports associations will be sent because they have a new opportunity, capable people who will decide in the interest of sport. Look, this is why it's impossible to maintain and represent the Olympic Committee as I don't know what civil society. Formally, yes. However, informally, this is an extremely political body, which I believe, or I am convinced that in almost no country since the collapse of totalitarian systems has maintained so many signs of the previous regime. And as Mr Misic, the on-call firefighter for current affairs in this House, as he himself declared himself when he said, "It is true that it will be more democratic, it is true that there will be more democratic elections." But that's unacceptable to him if it's more democratic. Interests are important, privileges are important, the political objectives of his option are important. You see, this is not how Members should perform. We should take a firm stand for democratic change in all spheres, in sport and everywhere, because this is the only way in which we could prevent such strong anomalies as have occurred in banks, where almost the same uncles have been deciding for 20 years, as well as in the Olympic Committee. They have the same influence from the background. And you see what happened in our banks: billions of holes. And we are really saving everything today, including this law and this solution is part of the solution. That's why your perceptions of politicization, of imprudentity, are the deception of the people. It's a deception of the people. And also the current law on elections and the exclusion of some people who cannot be loved in this foundation world largely excludes the conflict of interest that the current Olympic committee has not ruled out. And there are half the people who are in conflict of interest in deciding about money. But that suits you, you don't see a conflict of interest here. Why didn't you write for specific people on a corruption committee, whether they're in conflict of interest or not? That would be interesting for people, and we'd see what we'd get. Yes, yes, the subject is this law, but it's not your object of good resolution. Your object, your goal is to preserve, cement for all eternity the privileges and political underworld that this country brings through banks, through the Olympic Committees and any other institutions as far as it has actually come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u39	I'm reopening the application. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you. Why I'm saying it's about supporting sports. I have said that the funds from lottery contributions are to be paid by citizens and citizens, but now it will be about the money, because Mr Minister is exasperating me when I say that in fact the sport world will be the one who will filter and make a choice from the proposals that have come. In the fourth paragraph, which is the new fourth paragraph, which was adopted on the home working body, the selection of the fourteen proposals of the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in accordance with the third indent, as it is fourteen members of the previous paragraph, which is then proposed by the Council of State for appointment. The one you're saying isn't a package proposal. The National Assembly will receive a proposal from the Fourteenth, which will be forwarded to the National Assembly by the Sport Expert Council. And to make the matter even better, the choice follows the procedure determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the regulation. The government sets out the procedure, the Sport Expert Council is the one which makes 14 proposals to the National Assembly, the Board of Appeal, the three-member Commission, which finally decides on complaints, is appointed by the Minister, so that we can see how the Ministry actually has everything in its hands. Therefore, talking about what will happen and how civil society will be able to influence and decide is written for me in the sand. We can have different ideas about how civil society works or how it doesn't work. But then you have to solve it another way. You may recall Minister Beast's statement that it was not possible to replace the president of the Olympic Committee who was unwilling. But these are things governed by the civilian sports sphere itself. And I particularly stress that this is the Olympic Committees – the Association of Sports Unions, and it is up to them to regulate it. Civil society needs to be regulated on its own. Let me draw your attention to the complete absurdity of this law. The law in Article 10 sets out how the foundation is managed by the world. And the FIHA Council is set up and the Council of the Foundation of Sports Organisations is set up. But then the difference begins. Article 11 of the Foundation's Council assigns what it does. However, Article 12 states that the managing authority shall be the director. We are now repealing the director's law and the FIHO will act differently than the Sports Foundation will. Two foundations covering the same source will be managed and operated in different ways. If that's wise, if that's good, if that's equal, then I don't know what world I live in. Does the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs have the right to be the appellant's body to manage everything in order to take over the employees? It's not. However, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has taken this right. And I'm warning you again. It's an intense conflict of interest. And it's about avoiding responsibility. So far, the foundation's professional director has skillfully placed the responsibility on the foundation's world. But according to the rules, the director is responsible for the legality of the operation. But I could tell you what the director wasn't doing, and I should be working on how we got the rules and how the changes were mediated. Many things could be said at the expense of what has been done in the past if we are talking about the weaknesses of one organization or another. But when we want to regulate matters, it would be reasonable to listen in particular to the proposal of the anti-corruption commission, which points out the inadequacy of the solution that is now here. And don't forget who was making the proposal. Now coalition Members can talk about the number of talks they have had, even what letters can be spoken of, including what someone promises. But you have to watch what the law says. And the way it's written, it's bad for the Social Democrats. However, we believe that if we are preparing for change, then these changes must be considered and we should go to law on a regular basis, general consideration should be given, and then it would be shown to the public what the opinion, who thought, who was asked, who was not asked, and how the sports sphere would like to have things arranged. Now all we have to do is rely on indirect reports on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u42	Nicely greeted! Comrade Kavtičnik is an idealist because he thinks this proposal will not be accepted because it is unconstitutional. Such an assessment in this House is not valid. We have accepted a series of documents that have been ecclatanally unconstitutional. This coalition breaks down after all kinds of social life. Today it is just one small segment where the Ministry of Sport wants, say, to have all the power and influence the distribution of funds collected from lottery sources – not budget, but lottery. If this is about the budget, then it's something else. When will you decide to concentrate your resources, say, from tickets to sports events and decide on this at the Ministry of Sport and so on? I know your rakrana is at the top of the Olympic Committee, as it was said. But I also know that you have prepared a lustration document that the other coalition partners will receive these days. Then you won't go through the segments, but you'll go through everything and do whatever you want. This is an interesting document that will lift the pot to the ceiling, the pressure in the country will be so strong that something really bad will happen. But the Legal and Legal Service tells its own, anti-corruption commission and you keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going. I will support this amendment, prepared by the Group of Social Democrats, because I think that this is the only solution, but not some takeover of all segments of this society, because your rule will not last forever, but it will be difficult to correct what we now accept without our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! It is always good when a little humor develops in the National Assembly, and it is interesting how some people like to warn when someone says that something is unconstitutional and then do the same. It is in the law that something can be said that it is obviously unconstitutional, but if it is unconstitutional, it must be decided by the Constitutional Court. And that's why such simple accusations as we've heard now do not go with your left hand. What is most fun at this session today is not just this, but the situation in Slovenian civil society. Whenever we come to a debate on civil society in Slovenia, the symbol of Mr Janez Kocijancič is offered as a value. You know, Mr. Janez Kocijancič is the former president of the political party. This means that all we have now heard as a warning about how politics will reach out to sport and the like is purely mere conjecture. Politics has always been there in Slovenia and is deeply absorbed in all the seasons of Slovenian sport. And before that, it doesn't make any sense. For this reason, the only criterion that should be before us is how to distribute transparently available resources in order to benefit sports and athletes in order to benefit Slovenia as a whole. This should be a fundamental criterion. And if we follow this criterion, the government proposal is appropriate and the SD amendment is not, because it brings us back to a situation that is not good, which is not transparent, which is politically more under the cover of civil society than politics itself. And this is not good for sport or for Slovenia as a whole. For that reason, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk only has the floor. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, please prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the opinion of my fellow Member Jožet Jerovška, any topic can be an ideological theme and trigger an ideological fight, even a debate on the division of lottery funds. I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to this article of the law, but I would like to say that the Sports Foundation is a very important and influential institution. It has been in operation since 1998 and has increased funding for Slovenian sport by 15 times. The number of performers increased by 12 times. Throughout this period, the Sports Foundation financed almost 3 000 400 programmes and distributed some more than 55 million euros. It is said that this is a very important segment for very large funds. At the annual level, around 9 to 13 million turn around, and these funds are being discussed by who controls these funds. When we see in this bill that the Sport Expert Council, which will propose 14 members of the Foundation's Council, will have a dominant influence, and when you type on the Internet the Sport Expert Council, you will open the Government's National Portal of Slovenia and the Government's internal organizational forms of operation is also mentioned by the Slovenian Professional Council for Sport. However, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport is the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, which performs professional-administrative tasks for this Section Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. In fact, it is said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have a decisive or excluded impact not only on the allocation of budgetary resources, but also on the allocation of funds collected from the Lottery of Slovenia. I don't think that's acceptable, so I won't support such a marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. It was confirmed that what we suspected was essentially a predominant or a struggle between the OSCE and the Ministry. Today, we have also heard the coalition's MPs how insufferable it is that "someone is former". We're all exes who are still alive, you know. We're all ex-boyfriends, and we were doing something. What matters is what we are now and what we have done. The Olympic Committees of Slovenia, which brings together national industry associations, sports associations and so on, helped in the years of independence sport to unscrupulous heights and to the recognition of Slovenia together with athletes to the extent that the economy can only wish. That means what's been done so far has been good. And now we want to destroy it well. I will only read the following: "In accordance with the OKS rules, members of the OKS – Associations of Sports Associations are the following: National Sectoral Sports Unions, members of the International Sports Federation, members of the Olympic Games Programme, national sector sports associations, members of the International Federation of Sports, recognised by the International Olympic Committees, national sector sports associations, members of the International Sports Federation, members of Sportaccord, municipal sports associations, inter-ministerial sports associations and other sports associations and sports organisations." Listen, do we laugh at all these people who work who want to have an organization and tell them that they are not capable and that this will now take over the ministry and the ministry will conduct and tell how some things are created and done?Oh, my God! Look, this fight between the Ministry and the OKS can lead to losing only sport. And that's what we're afraid of. I'm not saying anything, that everything is crystal clear, and I'm not putting any hand in the fire on the OKS, but those who unite the OKS, those who name it, and those for whom the OKS was formed and formed. But not politics, the ministry, or whoever takes this as a right. There was also talk of criteria. Of course, the criteria need to be changed. The law, as I said before, needs to be changed, as we change and supplement laws, but for the better, please, not for the worse! And if the Law-Legal Service points to this, if the Anti-Corruption Commission points to this – don't put your head in the sand, not to say what it will look like out there! Once again, those who struggle so vehemently that it was politics before, and now it's not. I have here, but I will not talk about names: 'SLS has in the Professional Council of the Government for sport its representative Dr...., which can encourage a lot in terms of regulating your pressing problem.' This was written and sent by mistake to some mail. I will not talk about names, but I can show the Minister what I will do, as well as that opinion I received yesterday from the anti-corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I see there is no debater at the moment. Maybe someone else wants to discuss it? I see that there is still interest, so I am reopening the debate on the amendment tabled to Article 1. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm closing the application. I see three have been reported. The first is Mr Srečko Meh, to prepare Mr Mikhael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. When Franz Pukšič spoke about the fact that we have brought the matter to the brink of collapse by the organisation of sport so far, then I say that this solution is a step forward. That it is bad and that it leads to the results that will also result from what we accept here today also being reflected in the results of sport. And I remind you of this, Mr Minister and you, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, that the results of sport today are good, probably above the level that such a country can, of course, hope for. We are, on a global scale, a recognizable and truly sports nation, including me, which is actually a bit of sport. So I would like to say that here, when we all talk about organisation, we are not joking as one of my forerunners spoke, but we are speaking extremely seriously as responsible people. And if today's President-in-Office of the Olympic Committee has been appointed, then it must be said that this President of the Olympic Committee has been the President of all governments since we have a single Slovenia, and that, as President, parties may also have been the President of the Olympic Committee at that time. This means that we also have the right to be presidents of those institutions that are not in conflict with the interests and that the results within each association are also democratic processes that are taking place – and this president has been elected by athletes and athletes or those who make up the Olympic Committees themselves. But, Madam Vice-President, Mr Jožef Kavticnik said today two things that are extremely problematic for today's debate and decision-making. Firstly, the Anti-Corruption Commission has said that this solution can be contrary to the fact that it can only make it difficult to act. And secondly, that the Law-Legal Service also had comments. Therefore, I am making a procedural suggestion that this point should be terminated to harmonise the position of the Anti-Corruption Commission, that today it is not the conditions for us to decide on this matter, and that if we spoke to the prevention committee this morning, that we respect the rules of procedure, that we respect our legal order, then let us also respect it today when deciding on this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Lucky Meh. With regard to your procedural proposal at this time, despite your professional thinking, or perhaps also political, in connection with the professional statements of the anti-corruption commission and the legal and legislative service, I have no leverage, nor in accordance with the rules of procedure, to interrupt the meeting. However, before the vote, if you judge, you may take the time to consult, and we may also, if necessary, check. We continue with the debate, which is Mr Michael Prevc's turn. Get Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that again. Nicely greeted! In fact, I find it somewhat incomprehensible that we have found ourselves on such different shores with such different opinions and not least with such different interpretations and understanding of this law, which nevertheless brings something good, something positive, something more democratic and something more transparent. I cannot agree with the amendments proposed by the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia. It is understandable that these amendments actually protect an existing system on the basis of which funds were shared to sports organisations through the Sport Foundation and also protect certain privileges that have also been acquired through this system. So I absolutely cannot agree with this amendment, because the amendments go in this direction, that nothing can change, although this is a bit surprising, because several times has been heard today that the law needs to be amended, that it is necessary to approach the systemic changes of this law. However, when we have a change on the table — well, understandably, all of you cannot agree with these changes — then everything is actually wrong. In the very position of the Group of Members, we have used the term intermediary in particular. However, it is not clear to me why the Olympic Committees of Slovenia in this story, as it says in the appointment of members of the Foundation Council, must be an intermediary. Is it not, however, a more democratic and transparent form if members of the Foundation's world are elected directly to the proposals of sports associations. I simply do not understand many arguments by the opponents of this proposal. I have nothing against the Olympic Committee, but it is true that it does not hold what some of you have said. Civil initiative really has no impact on the appointment of people to the Olympic Committee. And it's probably true that some people have been sitting there at the top of the Olympic Committee for too long. But a civilian initiative to name these people has no special influence. It also bothers me that you say that the law is unconstitutional. I would not want to be such an expert in this field so quickly. I'm sure he's not unconstitutional. I am convinced that this law, in fact, is one that makes it possible to make much more balanced, significantly more transparent and more transparent. The amendments proposed are going in another direction. They are going in this direction to maintain the current situation, so I cannot support such amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'm a little different from my forerunner. I am sure that these amendments, which we are proposing, would slightly improve this proposal for a law on the transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia. I fully agree with those who say that the Lottery of Slovenia and the money that comes from the Lottery of Slovenia for sport is not the money of the budget, the state budget, is the money of some civil sphere. And it is perfectly understandable and logical that civil affairs and civil society should also decide on the allocation of this money. It is obvious, however, that the reshaping of this law will not be the same. I'm sure it's some kind of usurpation of the state and state apparatus over the control of this money. I also have a problem with this, too, we have around 7 thousand sports associations, associations and other sports organisations in Slovenia, there are about 7 thousand presidents here, and if we add some other officials, there are probably just over 10 thousand. These officials, I am sure, are the first carriers and pillars of the development of sport in some environment and in some areas. These officials simply won't be able to run, they won't come with this body, this authority that decides on the allocation of money. It seems to me that it will be very biased because some sports industries and some societies or associations will remain outside this decision-making cycle. Many times today it has been said that the bill itself has been attacked or criticised and warned by the anti-corruption commission that it does not agree with the Legislative and Legal Service. However, Mr Minister, you insist that the law goes on in such a form, although you can probably imagine today that as soon as it is adopted, what is likely to happen, a constitutional assessment of this law will be initiated immediately. With constitutional judgement, it is known that, after all, sports and sport will be the one who will bear all the negative consequences. Thus, I would and absolutely support what is also supported by the Positive Slovenia Group and, last but not least, the Social Democrats Group, to make some changes in this law, to mitigate those most critical points and to give the law a little more opportunity for transparency and for better organisational moves to come forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I see we still have time to discuss. Does anyone else want to discuss it? [[..]] I see a desire for a debate. I'm opening an application for discussion. The application shall be made. I'm closing the application. Two reported. Now Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Given that an opinion has been expressed not to support the amendment of the Social Democrats, with which we really want to maintain the role of sports organisations in the distribution of funds, I would like to recall once again the important fact that in the event of the amendment being rejected, we consider it to be a very unfair attitude towards sports organisations that have been working for many years in the Olympic Committee or in individual relations. Why such a lack of confidence in these organizations? Why do you think this civil sphere, the civil part does not have confidence in you, and why do you think that politics is the one that will correctly determine who is in what body of the sport organisation itself, but of course they cannot agree on quality proposals? We have very serious concerns about policy intervention not only in sports, but also in the economy, practically everywhere. Practice shows that where politics gets too involved in the situation, that area is going backwards at the professional level. Whether it be sport, culture or economy. Wherever politics intervenes, this is reflected as a negative influence. The fact that the Government, through its expert council or ministry, will propose to the National Assembly to confirm the authority to distribute these 10 to 13 million Euros of Lottery means shows that it is not about respect for sport, but rather about subjugating sport to politics. Our amendment wants to prevent and restore the level of trust between sports organisations that they had or still have today, especially as long as this law [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We have not changed my point of view, at least I personally have not changed my position since the debate on the committee and not now. This means that we propose that this Article be deleted. With the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats, it only softens, I say, only softens, this poor dictatorship brought about by the law or this change. Of course, it is necessary to amend the law in a comprehensive manner, but not so partially and with such interventions that make the allocation of funds more transparent. The claim that we were talking or that I was saying that the law was unconstitutional is not true. We're just and I've just warned myself that the Law-Legal Service thinks there can be unconstitutionality. So this is something else now, this unconstitutionality will have to be determined and decided only by the Constitutional Court. However, if the Law-Legal Service already has concerns, then it is up to us to devote a little more time to this mother and make sure of it, find out and make it transparent. That maybe I'm an idealist, that marriage won't be adopted, that maybe I'm naive, could be said because I want good. No, no, no. But I know I am, and I want to be honest. And since I want to be honest, I'm warning you about these anomalies and I'm not supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. For once, the round of debaters is exhausted. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment? I'm opening the application. At the conclusion, Mr Minister, I would like to take the floor. I'm closing the application. No one's been reported. Ma'am mag. Leila Hercegovac raised her hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u60	I'll be brief. Well, hello to you on my behalf, too! Since the Ministry itself has prepared a proposal for a novel, without the professional and interested public, it would be best to delete the disputed solutions with the amendments. So I suggest you reconsider the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The wish for the debate is no longer on the part of Members and Members of Parliament, so I give the floor to the motion for a Minister, Dr Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I really assure you that it is not the intention of the sport politicisation proponent. It is not the intention of the promoter to politicise sport. The Krono argument that sport should be politicised is that the expert council of the Government should propose to the National Assembly the appointment of 14 members of the Sport Foundation. And it was well read here in the debate that these 14 members of the Foundation will receive this expert council of the Government in a package, as will be elected in open, fair, free elections by individual sports associations and will be organised in cooperation with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Professional Council for Sport and the Senate of the Faculty of Sport. It was mentioned what relations are like with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Relations with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia are partnership, which things we do not agree on, which is understandable. But it is by this regulation, which will decide how the elections are to be held, that we are actually taking over what they have proposed. It is absolutely not about politicisation, but about democratisation of this area. The impact of individual sports associations is increasing. That's the final result. However, the impact of politics is as low as ever, in fact very little, except perhaps some cryptopolitics that are hiding in civil society. The opinion of the anti-corruption commission has been mentioned several times. It's going in two directions. It has been critical of some of the activities of the Sports Foundation in the previous term, according to 2011, and in fact, as I have already said, the Foundation has to look at these things and the way in which it works improves, as this process of improvement has been going on in the past. And secondly, it quotes or points to what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out. That was basically three things. Incompatibilities of functions. That the incompatibilities of employees at the Foundation with membership in the Foundation’s world are very similar to that of disability organisations. That the incompatibilities of membership in the foundation's world with political party leadership are, I hope that we do not need to have a debate on how we can agree on this. As far as the rights of appeal are concerned. The right to appeal is, but of course, the Board of Appeal decides definitively, which means that the funds can then be shared and that the athletes get the money. However, the constitutional right to appeal is not exhausted. It is possible to file an administrative dispute, so Article 25 of the Constitution is sufficient. So the effectiveness and the possibility of the complaint at the same time. The third note here was related to the employment of an employed professional at the Foundation and its shift to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. It has to be said that this person has come to the foundation from this Ministry, meets all the conditions for being at the Ministry's office. The rights of this particular person shall not be revoked in any way. If I finish. We're increasing democracy in sports. We increase the influence of athletes. We're increasing the impact of sports unions. We're acting more rational because we're reducing the cost of the foundation. The two amendments that have been proposed are going in the wrong direction in our opinion, and I therefore call on the National Assembly to support the proposed amendment of the law. It will be in the best interests of Slovenian sport to continue to be as successful as we all want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The two amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, it's an evocative bill on amendments to the laws on agricultural land by the end of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 40 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! Last year, a new law was adopted on agricultural land, with which the former government, Pahor's Government, reintroduced an extremely high tax on uncharted building land. This tax was referred to as "a change in the destination of agricultural land". This same change of destination is actually the same coalition in 2002, as the LDS and SD coalition said, nearly 10 years ago. Last year's re-imposed taxation of building land, most of which had been granted status in 1985, was not the correct solution, as these land no longer has agricultural status, although at work or perhaps even much of these land is still being farmed. Last year's reintroduction of this tax, which must be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit, has significantly irritated all investors and has burdened them with disproportionate or excessive costs, as they amounted to up to some tens of thousands of euros in individual construction, some of them more than 30,000 or 40,000 euros, an amount almost sufficient for the construction of the building material and the construction of the apartment house. In some cases, particularly in rural areas, compensation for the change of destination is more than the cost of purchasing land, paying a municipal contribution, project documentation and also part of building a house together. For Ljubljana, where land prices are about 200 euros per square metre, 10 euros in compensation per square metre is probably not a big profit, that is only a few percent. For rural areas where prices of the same type of land range from half to one euro, this is an enormous premium, 10 to 20 times higher than the price of land. In point 17.2 of the Coalition Treaty, on page 54, we have stated that we will eliminate compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, which in nature does not represent the potential for agricultural production, and abnormally provoke and impede the construction of infrastructure facilities and individual or other buildings. This proposal, which we are going to decide on today, is in line with the provisions of the Coalition Treaty, as it provides compensation for lands with a credit rating lower than 50, which is said to be less valuable land and at the same time retains compensation for the best agricultural land with a credit rating class between 50 and 100. It also substantially changes the basis for the dose by law. This law does not account for compensation from the surface of all plots affected by the planned construction operation, but the compensation shall be deducted only from the foundation of the intervention, which is a fundamental change and, in the final stage, represents an acceptable additional investment cost. I believe that this solution, which we are improving with the amendments, is much more acceptable, much more appropriate, and I suggest that all Members, together with the amendments tabled, support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u66	Dearly beloved colleague, dear colleagues, distinguished minister with associate, nice greeting! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Lands Act at its 7th session. 6. 2012. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Legal and Legislative Service, a number of representatives of the professional and interested public participated in the meeting, who also forwarded their written comments to the Committee. In the debate, the representative of the State Council presented the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and of the Commission on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. They do not support and warn the Commission of the proposed law that compensation for change of destination could be maintained, but agree that the method of dosage should be changed, namely from the building plot and not from the whole plot of land and the amount of compensation. The position of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia was presented by the president of the Chamber, who also does not support the abolition of compensation for the change of destination and proposes that the law in force so far should be amended to take into account the transitional period until the full application of compensation for the change of destination for all, including for individual investors, building houses, and not only for those whose investor is a state or local community. During this period, only 30, 50 and later 70 % of the lower compensation would be paid, depending on the year of application for a building permit. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which considers that municipalities should be exempt from compensation for public infrastructure and certain other projects and that the revenue of municipalities should be part of the compensation as a dedicated source of funding for programmes and actions related to agricultural policy. The comments of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, under which 27 experts from this Institute were signed, were presented by the Director of the Agricultural Institute and considered that the amendment of the law was a poorly thought out move that would fundamentally destroy the achievements of the current law and cause further erosion of the best agricultural land, particularly the uncertain future in the area of food security. The representatives of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology of the University of Ljubljana pointed out that the novelty of the law takes a sharp look at protecting the highest quality agricultural land, just at the time when the European Commission adopted guidelines to prevent the construction of agricultural land and when Germany, with its leading role in the EU, changes measures to reduce the loss of agricultural land due to construction. They also pointed out that the imposition of the refund has caused a type of inconvenience, but it should be noted that these are mainly due to inadequate records of the quality of agricultural land and to inadequate instruments and spatial planning practices, not to the inadequacy of the system as such. Representatives of many civil associations also objected to the amendment of the current law because there is a fear that the amendment of the law will open the way for speculators to intervene into space and fully evaluate the expected measures to protect agricultural land. A civil social petition was also submitted to the Committee, signed by more than 3 000 500 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in which they call on Members and Members to ensure the food security of the inhabitants of Slovenia by rejecting the proposed amendment to the law. Following the conclusion of the presentation of the opinions and views of the expert and other public, a member of the Committee from the SD Group of Members suggested that the Committee should, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, but that the Committee voted on the proposal and did not adopt it, had 6 votes in favour and 9 against. In the discussion on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members of the coalition committee cited arguments for the adoption of the bill and pointed out the issue of agricultural land cultivation and the abandonment of farming on agricultural surfaces. The adoption of the novel will, in their opinion, also reverse this trend. They also considered that the current regime was also harmful because it was strongly directed against rural development. The adoption of the bill by amendments to coalition groups is, in their view, a prerequisite for the continuation of more coherent regional development. In particular, the opposition Members drew attention to the fact that the purpose of the compensation scheme is to obtain funds for the training of new agricultural land replacements due to the construction of agricultural land, as well as to the rational and deliberate placement in a place where land is less suitable for agricultural processing. In the course of the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to the coalition groups. The Committee also voted on the articles of the proposed law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We also have representatives from the Government or the competent Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment to Mr Franz Bogovic for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u68	Nice greeting, respected Vice-President, respected members and members of the Slovenian Parliament! As proposed by Mr Tanko, in the coalition contract signed by the coalition, Mr Tanko mentioned that the coalition has committed itself to ensuring that quality agricultural land is protected permanently and that certain shortcomings have been identified in the implementation of the law adopted last year in the National Assembly and that some corrections have been made. Therefore, at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we went to the Ministry of Agriculture and the preparation of a law that we wanted to adopt amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, and one of these contents was also a substitute. In addition to the refund, there were some other content, and we thought it was crucial that a government regulation should establish permanently protected land, because we fear that the normal procedure, as set out in the law, which will take place through the adoption of the OOP of municipalities, will take too long and that the hunting for agricultural land will be open for too long, especially in the part where we are talking about changing agricultural land. For the provisions relating to compensation for change of destination, the original proposal also contained an approximate model, such as the proposed law today supplemented by the amendment. In view of the assessment that this coordination will take too long and that it is necessary to adopt these changes due to the consequences identified in economic development, in the first half of this year or before parliamentary holidays, the Group of Members has introduced the law into the government procedure. The law has been supplemented by amendments in the process of coordination within the coalition and also in the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment itself. In these complementary amendments, these provisions now protect the most quality agricultural land with this progressive scale, a scale that eliminates the payment of the change of destination until the 50th grade, and then by raising in the 50 to 60 grades, 61 to 75 and above 76 with a progressive scale discourages future investors from the most quality agricultural land that has been converted in the past, as we know, into building plots. In preparation for the amendments, we participated in the ministry together with the parliamentary groups. We therefore consider that such a law as is now proposed is appropriate for adoption. At the Ministry, we firmly believe that, in addition to the law governing agricultural land, the laws already adopted in this Parliament relating to the taxation of unpaved buildings and the establishment of a new tax on the sale of unpaved buildings are very important. If I withdraw, the Government supports the proposal for a law with amendments adopted on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Branko Ficko. The SDS Group and Mr Robert Hrvat are to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u70	Nice hello to you all! The Group of Members and Members of the work of the ruling coalition submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. The proposed law is intended to abolish the institution of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land introduced by the 2011 Law on Agricultural Lands. In Positive Slovenia, we do not agree with the allegations that we will relieve the Slovenian economy with compensation and increase its competitiveness, in particular in construction. More than land prices are problematic long-term spatial planning procedures, credit crunches, lack of investment. The claim that the payment of the change of destination has stopped the development of the economy is not supported by any verified data. No one mentions how many empty industrial zones there are, how many empty industrial areas there are because of the collapse of companies that could be used to revive the economy with minimal costs. Construction activity was not stopped by the law in force. It's not because there's no money for investment. If they're planning an investment somewhere on the best agricultural land, it's only right to stop. The problem is that most of the agricultural land that investors want to build on is in the highest rating classes. Thus, the aim of compensation is not to hinder or even prevent investment, but rather to direct construction to less-quality land. The problem of building agricultural land is also highlighted by the profession concerned with constantly changing legislation, which is unimaginable, partial and inconsistent with strategic national and international origins. Experts are convinced that compensation in marriage must remain, and the matter of professional judgment is how it will be administered. In Positive Slovenia we welcome the decision of the ruling coalition that compensations for the protection of agricultural land remain. It seems that Members of the ruling coalition have only come to understand that it is a matter of natural goods given to a limited extent and cannot be replaced, and therefore effective measures to protect them must be put in place for the best agricultural land. In Positive Slovenia, we agree with some of the solutions taken, as we believe that some shortcomings have been identified in relation to the compensation. The essential disadvantage is that the compensation is deducted from the entire plot of land, if at least part of this plot is after actual use of agricultural land, or the fact that the compensation cannot be avoided is also an investment in public interest or in public infrastructure, even though it is exempt from certain other duties. We note, however, that the solutions adopted are still partial and insufficient and do not have sufficient safeguards to protect the best land. In particular, if we are aware that on the newly paid compensation, only 15 to 20% of the previous compensation will be on average. In view of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment's announcement that he should prepare a new proposal for amendments to the law in the autumn, we do not think it makes sense for the National Assembly to adopt a new law, which we are all going to amend again. It would be more reasonable to leave this issue to the Government, as it will include its professional services, Slovenian expertise, local communities and NGOs in the process. This would also allow for an expert and broad public debate on possible compromise and comprehensive solutions. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we will not support or abstain from the proposed bills and supplements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In September last year, a new Law on Agricultural Lands was adopted. The important provisions of this amendment relate to the introduction of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. The fact is, we are a society that operates on a more or less efficient social system every day. That this social system is violently complicated, the current is difficult to change, is generally unresponsive, too often the purpose itself and too few times in the service of a simple person, but another irrefutable fact. How many convictions, reconciliations, negotiations, compromises must be made to do something tangiblely good, which a simple person then feels on his skin. The Agricultural Lands Act, or the proposed changes or improvements, are a rather hard piece of work process for all who try to bring the necessary processes into the real and tangible waters. After the current law, every investor must pay up to EUR 25 per square metre of land already habitable before obtaining a building permit. The amounts shall reach an unacceptable vertical height. The aim of the current law is to protect the best agricultural land. And I wonder how. As a rule, all municipal spatial acts have already clearly defined wally and uninhabitable land, in most cases agricultural land. And every later impact on the protection of anything is virtually impossible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been working all the way through to the permanent protection of the best agricultural land, as we are very well aware of their importance. That is why we approach the improvement of the law in a conscientious and responsible manner, especially in life and in reality, with a desire to make it to the extent of people, but not for ourselves. Today's proposal to reduce compensations reasonably, and from now on they will only be tied to land above 50. From now on, the compensation will only be paid from the floor of the planned facility and not for the whole lot. Our aim in amending the law was clear – to achieve a satisfactory high level of consensus among all those who co-decision in any way on everything relating to Slovenian agricultural land and its protection on the one hand, and on the other hand all those potential investors, which are now somehow diverted from thinking about the realisation of any such investment. It is essential to act as a safeguard much earlier, not when spatial acts are already adopted and very precisely defined by walled and uninhabited parcels. It's too late at the time. The only real protection will be the adoption of a government regulation on the cadastral of permanently protected agricultural land. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect expert preparation in line with local communities and all stakeholders in this area. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that the adoption of the improvements to the existing agricultural land law will result in the real satisfaction of the people. The compromise that we are taking today preserves protection and provides an opportunity for our country to be more competitive. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the law, and we will also support all amendments to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, which we are considering today, has been put into effect throughout the one-year period of the adopted law. It is clear that this law is not being affected by the purpose of protecting agricultural land, but rather by the purpose of re-release of construction on agricultural land. We view this as a short-sighted measure, and in particular a measure that follows a narrow political interest or, as we have heard in the consideration of this law, pre-election promises, if we form a government, we will abolish compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. The short-term measure is mainly due to the fact that agricultural land is an irreplaceable natural resource produced over the centuries so that it can then serve to produce food. Let us recall that Slovenia has seen very little concern for agricultural land conservation in the last 20 years, since it lost as many as 93 thousand hectares of agricultural farmland in the period 1991-2009, of which almost 20,000 hectares of the best working areas are fields and gardens. Once again, only 866 square metres of working area per inhabitant are currently available in Slovenia, while other countries have much more and want to increase these areas, and some have a ratio of between 2500 and 3000 square metres of working area per inhabitant. It is a matter of realizing that food security is one of the most important, however, for national security. However, the fact is that this year, since the Agricultural Lands Act was in force, with the content that it introduces compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, this measure has proved to be very effective in preventing the loss of farmland. However, if there has already been a need to visit the agricultural land, this law provides for a refund which will later allow for the establishment of a replacement agricultural land. Therefore, even if it is necessary to visit the agricultural land as a matter of urgency, it is possible to provide a replacement land by way of compensation. Let me stress that the Social Democrats really believe that the food security of the inhabitants is crucial to the successful development and existence of the country. The Agricultural Lands Act should therefore be amended very responsibly and in particular in cooperation with the professional public. Only well-thought-out solutions can be legalized. The characteristic of this law, which we are considering today, is that it is opposed by the entire professional public working in the field of agriculture and, above all, in the field of agricultural land planning and processing. This fact is certainly a fact that must be of great concern to us all. Many times it is used as an argument to amend the agricultural land law to allow investors to build as soon as possible, but it does not matter how much it costs to enable them to do so. And even more frequently, the argument is that young families wishing to build on agricultural land should also be allowed to build their home as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible. Here I would like to remind you that this government has abolished subsidies to help young families build and that this law, if adopted, will also be the basis for compensation already paid to the state budget. Thus, we will lose some 4 million euros of compensation already paid, we will lose agricultural land and we do not have the resources to provide substitute land. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette and the Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! By means of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands, we reduce in the first place the compensation for the change of destination for the best agricultural land and we abolish these compensations for those lands assessed with less than 50 credit points. In the Civil Gazette, we have advocated a reduction of these compensations, but we are also pleased that they remain for the best land, although truly symbolic, but it is important that this institution of compensation remains in law. This year's rebalancing brings these funds together deliberately, which means that the funds raised by compensation will indeed be designed to create or improve new land for agricultural production. In Slovenia we also lose a large share of land by growing, not just by building up. In 1875, in the territory of Slovenia, the forest share was 35%, and in 1990 it represented more than half of the territory and this trend continues. However, recovery is not about a irreversible process, as it is possible to reactivate this land in the future, so it is important that funds are deliberately raised to enable it. We are convinced in the Citizen's List that we will not be able to resolve the lack of self-sustainment and food security with high compensation. The most affected families were the construction of housing houses and also farmers for the construction of agricultural buildings. In practice, there has been a split, as compensation has so far been given from the whole lot and not just from the flooring of the building. However, the profit of such implementation in practice was limited to surveyors. As a result of this, we will support amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act and the amendment of the Coalition. Furthermore, we believe in the National Gazette that agricultural land can be most effectively protected by the introduction of a cadastral, permanently protected land following the example of protected farms or water protected areas. The government regulation here is the best time-consuming solution. And here we expect the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment to prioritise these matters. In addition, the National Gazette points out that changes in work relating to agrarian operations are also necessary in this area. Agrarian operations, especially large irrigation systems, are regarded by the law as some kind of public infrastructure and interference with private property and its management in a very grave way. The inadequacy of the law, the longevity of administrative procedures and the uncertainty of their management have resulted in very few new irrigation systems in Slovenia, which therefore means very poor use of European resources. On the other hand, we have 38 existing melioration systems that require thorough technological reconstruction and for which there is no interest. Without effective management of water resources and irrigation of agricultural land, we cannot deal with climate change and competition on the market. The problem of agricultural land protection is therefore much broader than compensation. In order to sell the best agricultural land with a reduction of compensation, we answer in the National Gazette: the best agricultural land protector is a good redemption price.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u77	The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, Minister, dear colleagues, good afternoon! The main purpose of the proposed Law on Amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act is, as we all know, a substantial reduction in compensation for changes in the destination of agricultural land, which was reintroduced a year ago by a comprehensive amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act. I say again because we knew a similar instrument until 2003, when the compensation with the amendment of the Construction Act, which entered into the Agricultural Lands Act, was abolished without concrete reasons. But there were no petitions, protests, and dismayed letters from individuals and non-governmental organisations fighting the abolition of compensation, as is the case today. Without compensation for the change of destination, we lived until last May when the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act was adopted in this area, which re-established compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land with a view to protecting the highest quality agricultural land. I guess I don't have to point out that it was during this period that the highest quality agricultural land was lost, as this was a period of intensive investment. They built highways, malls. Today, industrial zones, which are mostly empty, have grown like mushrooms in the rain. All this on the best agricultural land. However, the State and the municipalities, at least on the basis of compensations which would constitute a source for the establishment of new agricultural areas, had none of this. Last year's amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act was also supported in the Slovenian People's Party, as we were convinced that this was an appropriate instrument to prevent the construction of the most quality agricultural land. However, the positive aim of last year's adopted law has in practice failed. In addition to the already acute economic situation, it has proved to be a key reason for the decline in the volume of investments, as it has also resorted to land which is for the purpose of building and for the actual use of agricultural land, which has resulted in cases of astronomical compensation also on land that have been identified as building land for several decades, according to spatial plans. That is why, last autumn in our Group, we tabled an amendment to the law that we wanted to reduce compensation by about 80%, but due to the extraordinary national elections, the legislative process was closed prematurely. As this did not solve the problem on its own, soon after the appointment of the government, together with experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, our initial proposal for a law was upgraded in the spirit of a coalition treaty. We have proposed compensation for agricultural land, which does not represent the potential for agricultural production up to 40, and the preservation of compensation for the highest quality agricultural land, while changing the method of determining the compensation in order to make it dependent on the surface of the building. Since the remaining four coalition partners insisted on the full abolition of the damages, we did not insist on our proposal and did not put it into the procedure. Nor did we sign the law under consideration, which originally provided for the total elimination of compensation. We did not agree with this in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Our opinion was also shared by the competent ministry, as we are convinced that the full elimination of compensation would be contrary to the coalition contract and that a complete elimination of compensation would lose an important agricultural land protection instrument. And what's lost once is lost forever. We are therefore pleased that, during our coordination with the remaining coalition partners, we have been able to agree on solutions that were then tabled in the form of amendments and adopted at the meeting of the parent working body. Disposal of compensation for agricultural land of lower quality – up to a rating of 50, maintenance of compensation for the highest quality of land, so let's say, for 200 square metres of floor area of the facility, this will be 4 000 euros for the apartment building, and for a thousand square metres the large production hall will be 20,000 euros. Before concluding, I would like to say that agricultural land will be most protected by the high buying-in prices of agricultural products. As long as the purchase price of potatoes is 4 cents, it will be difficult to protect agricultural land by means of acts. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u79	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you for saying good-bye to everyone. We have before us a proposal for a law that has raised huge amounts of dust in the professional and laity public, as it reduces the amount of compensation due to the change in the destination of the agricultural land to be paid by the investor in the construction permit process. In DeSUS, we believe that it is necessary to insist on the protection of the best agricultural land, since in Slovenia we lose about 7 hectares of agricultural land a day. The key information is that in Slovenia we have only two thousand,545 square metres of agricultural land per capita and, worse still, there are only 884 square meters of farmland. This has a strong impact on the possibility of self-sustainment, which currently ranges from 33% to 70% for plant products, which we find extremely worrying. In the event of a deepening crisis, the possibility of self-sustaining will be of great value and every inch of the farmland will be extremely valuable. At the same time, with the previous amendment, we have made the law too much of a wish to preserve the land of compensation, and the final calculations have surprised not only investors but also those responsible at the Ministry. This was the case for young families to have to pay tens and thousands of euros for compensation before they even started building a new home. Since it is our assessment that we need to find a medium path that will allow investors to make investments while protecting the best agricultural land, we in DeSUS have decided to support this bill, which will compensate the lower to an acceptable level. In DeSUS, if we knew with municipal spatial plans the best agricultural land should be protected as it should be, we would not have to accept such a drastic increase in compensation in the previous term, but this time we would not have to listen to the evidence that we agreed to sell the best agricultural land. At the same time in DeSUS, we expect the next amendment of this law to establish a cadastral of permanently protected agricultural land, which we believe is the only right way to protect the best agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Janez Vasle have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u82	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Madam Vice President, Mr Minister! I'll read our position, too. The last few weeks have been a very hot debate on agricultural land, which may have reached its peak today. In New Slovenia we are actually happy about this, because only a broad and well-founded public debate can bring good solutions to the benefit of all interested people. But we're kind of seeing two directions of debate. The opponents of the law in question today claim that by reducing compensation for change of destination, it will be possible to destroy the few more agricultural land that we have in Slovenia. Secondly, I am also included in New Slovenia, but we believe that compensation for the change of destination does not in itself save agricultural land, but at least it is symbolically good if they remain but are less radical than they were introduced by the current law. The current situation is indeed unsustainable. We would like to argue that last year's adoption of the law does not protect agricultural land, but primarily protects land brokers who, in the past, have earned well with this change of destination and that today's accounts are paid by innocent investors, many of whom are young, young families. These people are land on which to build, already purchased, at a cost for habitable land, so it is unfair that they have to pay compensation today. It is also unacceptable for us that the compensation must be paid for the whole lot and not just for the area where the object would be. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the best agricultural land must be protected. We cannot do that with very high compensation. Preservation of first-class agricultural land and rural areas is a much more complex challenge. This would best be resolved by a regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which would determine permanently protected agricultural land. What, though, are the first-class agricultural land to be preserved if farmers are not paid to grow in the long term, if the purchase prices are low and young people do not stay or come to the countryside in this way. In anticipation of broader systemic solutions from this area, which the Ministry has already announced, we will support this law, which is some kind of first aid, because those who quickly do, twice will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2012. Before I apply for the debate to be held on the amendment to Article 3, I give the floor to the applicant who has asked for the floor, Mr Jožet Tank. A government representative also has the possibility of making an application. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that some of the statements from the positions of the delegations should be commented on. I must say that we have not accepted this on the basis of some narrow political interests. We have no political interests in this. We just wanted things to normalise in this area to become normal and acceptable. What has been adopted in the existing law is a blockade. The problem is that in the Agricultural Lands Act, you have imposed a tax on uncharted buildings. In particular, you taxed last year uncharted building land, which has been with spatial acts since 1985 or before or now modified. No one raised any voices, for example, when the spatial plan of the Ljubljana Municipality changed last year and between 766 hectares of land, which had changed from farm to building, there were 583 hectares of the best agricultural land — not the rest, but the best. There was not one voice or from the current opposition, not from the profession, from no one. Ljubljana's spatial plan has changed. However, the current minister, who allowed the best agricultural land to be converted into building plots, was the signatory to the amendment of this act. Dead, no discussion. Also, none of the current ombudsmen or current ombudsmen of the best agricultural land, or even from the profession, responded when, for example, the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana brought bagels to the gardeners. There, too, these people have created some agricultural or even poorer land, most of them on a biological basis, that's what's best, and that's where what happened happened. No one's responded. As regards the claim that Slovenia has very few agricultural land per capita, these claims are true. However, it also concludes that Slovenia also has one of the largest forests in Europe, significantly larger than those that hold the level of average. Significantly bigger. We are the third forest country in Europe. We cannot expect from the Republic of Slovenia or from us in any way that we will have the same or similar comparable area of agricultural land per capita as, for example, the Netherlands, Belgium, France. We need to look at the map a little bit, look at some of the data, and find out about it. The evidence of how many agricultural land we have turned into a walled, walled land is also linked to the construction of a highway network. Most of these surfaces were covered with a highway network. And when the highway programme was placed in space, it was an opportunity for the current environment ministers or agricultural ministers to use the instruments available to them. It was possible. Unfortunately, that was not the case at the time. However, I think it is very unfair that we, with the law on public finances, have abolished the subsidy for those who for the first time solve the housing problem. That's actually what happened. However, we are talking about 300, 400, 500 euros of annual subsidy for one family, which is paid for several years. These same families, if they want to build a residential house, must pay EUR 25, 30 000 for a change of destination before issuing a building permit. It is said that in 30, 40 years this country does not return to them with this subsidy what it took from them at the time of the construction or before the construction permit was issued. That's the ratio. And the introduction of such a subsidy to solve the first housing problem, compared to the tax you introduced, is actually a wealth. In some ways, they must first pay 20, 30 000 euros for a change of destination, and then the country will return a few hundred euros each year on the basis of the application, the fulfilment of the criteria and the proof. It's probably not the right criteria and the right criteria. I think that if we want to do anything on the extra taxation of building land, we should arrange it in another law, such as the Spatial Planning Act. This is actually happening there, where processes change agricultural or other land to uncharted building land, not in the Agricultural Lands Act. This is where change happens. However, once we have an uncharted building plot, the spatial plan defines the area where construction is allowed, then we no longer talk about agricultural land. That's when we cleared the farmland. It is true, however, that due to the way the spatial plans have changed, a large part of the unburied building land is still in agricultural use. That's right. But the status of these lands is different from agricultural land. I think that these things should be handled in a different way. With regard to self-sustainment or the provision of food resources on the best agricultural land, this is not likely to be ensured by measures such as the high taxation of agricultural land. This will have to be addressed through agricultural policy measures, ensuring sufficient self-sustainment, and in particular those involved must be able to survive at least at the economic minimum. We alone cannot achieve this by means of safeguards. What these people do on agricultural land must have some commercial basis. If these commercial bases are not, if redemptions do not work, if there are no other things that do not work, such as in relation to stocks or otherwise, we cannot guarantee the use or use of our best agricultural land otherwise than with some other measures. If there is no production there, then there can only be an alternative to park areas. It is said that on some agricultural surfaces we will perform some sanitary interventions, such as a sanitary basket or something else, or leave this to the healing. There are no other measures. The objective of any policy is to ensure that agricultural production takes place on agricultural land having this status, in particular agricultural production. If the country is not successful here, there will be nothing else that can happen here but either building up or impoverishing. However, when infestation occurs, the Natura 2000 areas and similar additional burdens are further expanded, which are also an important limiting factor in the use of a small amount of Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Before opening the debate on Article 3 or the amendments tabled, the honourable Members and Members, the honourable proposer and also the representatives of the Government, I would like to draw attention to the following. We are considering a proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act following a reduced procedure in second reading. And let me read the 142nd article, which states: "In the reduced procedure of the consideration of the draft law, no general discussion shall be held on the basis of Rule 122 of this Rules of Procedure. The second and third hearings shall be held at the same meeting." Article 134: "In the second reading of the bill, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on the individual articles to which amendments and the vote on individual amendments have been tabled." I ask you politely to hold on to this strictly so that there are no polynomializations. I am opening the debate on Article 3 and the amendments of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, DL, DeSUS, SLS and NSI. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Eight panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Jani Möderndorfer, to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. If I hadn't listened to this last discussion of the proposalr, I would have the feeling that the SDS should have invented this Zoran Jankovic, because otherwise I wouldn't have survived at all. This client would just die from the worst. Zoran Jankovic is now guilty of everything in the land. The absurdity of all this is, above all, that if I focus on the debate on the amendment itself, all I can say is that today is essentially an incredible phenomenon. The Minister with his teeth clenched listens to the discussion of his coalition partners, but in fact he is unhappy because he has an agenda of his own to settle the issue of land policy by law itself and, in fact, the performance of both the minister and the proponents is a kind of paradox. This is that the proposaler wants to address the issue of compensation, draws up Zoran Jankovic as he changes agricultural land with a spatial plan, and has itself come up with a proposal to abolish land compensation. I just don't get it. All I understand is that someone would like to give someone something that they had to pay for sooner, and today they don't need any more. Something's wrong. It is particularly wrong, however, because in this coalition, the Coalition Group's proposal is to propose to its own Minister, who in the fall alone says that he will propose a law where he will systematically solve the whole issue on land – which would be logical, normal and only correct. No, in this case something is in a hurry, but especially when we were discussing completely similar things an hour or a day ago, when we were actually quick to resolve a particular problem with the proposal, it turned out that the same coalition was saying that it was not the time for this system to be regulated with another law and so on. Therefore, I must say that I am extremely disappointed that, with the proposal proposed in this amendment to the SD, this is that the article itself is deleted, I personally strongly support it and will also support it, with one clear reason – to show this absurdity when, in fact, the minister and the coalition are not aligned with each other, what they are proposing. If the Minister is to explain to me what they want to do with this article, I will be extremely happy and I will be happy to come to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare myself, please, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 3 that we have tabled to this Act refers to the deletion of the article. This deletion means that we maintain the compensation for the change of destination of agricultural land and is a key solution for the implementation of the Agricultural Lands Act. Therefore, the President, this amendment and this article truly opens up the possibility of debate on the whole law, because without this article or if this article does not change as proposed by the applicants, then it constitutes a grave breach in the applicable agricultural land law. In this context, I would like to explain why the former Minister, our colleague Mag, is. Dejan Židan, what I would say, is to work intensively to draw up a law on agricultural land, which would be coordinated primarily with the professional public, the municipalities and also with all those who intervene in one way or another. To talk about the fact that no one has responded to the large amount of agricultural land changing destination occurring in municipal spatial acts is incorrect. On the basis of this, the Minister of the Jews has drawn up a law, and this is a very clear answer to what and how we have reacted to these interventions. In the case of Ljubljana, he also limited the number of land proposed for change of destination. The most important argument, as we have pointed out, is the Law on Agricultural Lands, which has been applied. With regard to subsidies for young families, which we see as aid, which could also compensate for the additional burden, if they are already building on agricultural land, let me say that we are also Social Democrats during the period of acceptance of these subsidies, which Minister Podobnik proposed at the time when he was responsible for this area, have warned that these subsidies are too low and actually prevent the effective resolution of the housing problems of young families. That is why this law, which we are considering today, needs a broader treatment and certainly the reduced procedure has not been an appropriate form. As you can also hear from previous implementations, we need to open up a debate and explore housing, economic development, the conservation of agricultural production and, most importantly, the conservation of agricultural land, which, as I have said, are indispensable natural goods. For this reason, we believe that if there were at least a regular procedure in this process or before this law went into consideration at all, we should really form a wider group to examine all these topics and then propose appropriate solutions. I am sure that, during the economic and financial crisis and all the measures that we are now proposing to resolve this area, it would certainly be possible to reach a common nominee if young families and all those who are solving the first housing problem, as well as some others, were provided with money from the state budget to buy many empty apartments in Slovenia, which were built with expensive loans. Today we have problems because our economy is failing, construction is failing due to overindebtedness, the banks, because they have had poor investments, do not lend to the economy, and with deliberate measures they could solve the problem of overindebted builders and also banks and not least preserve agricultural land. This is what the Social Democrats are talking about when we point out these problems. I fully agree that the subsidies, as they were in force, were too small. We should actually change them, not end them. But the fact is that they stopped without thinking clearly, because however we turn, investments in construction, in apartments always appear to be an extremely strong multiplier of economic development, and this has been neglected in this process. However, we would particularly like to point out that if this article is deleted, the fact that it is still possible, even after the current law, to make a partialisation with which to reduce the area on which someone wants to build a residential house is still possible. This plot is an additional cost, but it is significantly lower than if we look at the amount that you have to pay for the change of destination, if you are building, say, as has been presented several times in these treatments, at 4,000 square metres of large plots. It would be enough, say, if you make a plot of a thousand square meters and it's for one apartment house, I think it's quite an appropriate area, because it's also kind of a surface that we find in the neighborhoods and it's a very suitable area to build a one-family apartment house. This measure is already possible. Of course, these procedures, which we are now taking to amend spatial legislation, should also provide for procedures that could allow someone who has already purchased land that is otherwise in the area of insularity to make agricultural use through a change of ownership to another parcel, which is, say, less quality or not at all suitable for agricultural production or processing, to provide a replacement area. This is also one of the principles of rescue and cannot be implemented at this time. In particular, I would like to point out that, however, 4 million euros will have to be made available to those who have already paid the funds to change the destination of agricultural land, and to those who have already paid it back. In the event of the adoption of this law, a substantial number of issues are raised, rather than rejecting this law. Therefore, once again, we call attention to sobriety before everyone finally decides whether this law is such that it can also be adopted in its final form or not, whether it would be better to reject it and find all of these solutions that I have presented and are available to us, and are certainly more appropriate and consistent with all who think about what development means either at the municipal level or at the national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready. Otherwise, if individual articles and amendments define the possibility of a wider debate or propose that each of them adhere to the framework in accordance with the articles. If this article is so wide, then it is certainly, as you say, Mr Weber, that the debate can be so wide open. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am not so pleased when I get the floor for the debate as I am now, because the Vice-President has corrected that first indication after Mr Weber's performance, that we can discuss more broadly because he was allowed to talk about construction, about banks, about empty spaces, about the abolition of 2003 and so on. And so it is, Madam Vice-President, that we are simply discussing here in Parliament, not least citizens and citizens are listening to us. And it's only right that they hear this whole palette. It is true, and I agree with Mr Webro, that things are still concerned with this law, but slightly broader, and politicians have the right to report it. Well, so many tips, so many suggestions on the previous one, and now we hear about this law from the SD, and since I'm not a newcomer in this House, I wonder where they've been for the last three years and what they've been doing. Obviously nothing, since all of this, when proposed today, could have been done in all of those previous governments long ago and today this country would have blossomed and is now on the brink of collapse. And that's because she was led by people like SD and like them. In 2003, when Rob led this country, where SD was also in the coalition, you, as has already been said, abolished these refunds for no reason whatsoever. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u91	Mr Pukšič, I suggest that you do not compromise with the SD, but talk and discuss the amendment. I suggest.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u92	Vice-President, you can propose and I will be within the framework of others, so I will not go beyond these frameworks. As far as the Slovenian People's Party is concerned, we proposed an amendment to the law in September 2011, and this did not happen because it was the inability of the then government coalition to hold, but there was an early election. We've been doing this for over a half year now. We've been putting together elastics of how and what. You know, now is the time for people to invest in something else. And if we did not change this law, this would simply mean the expulsion of young families from the countryside. Because the change, like now, for a plot that is not 10 acres, but is smaller, 4 acres, has to pay for the change of destination for the whole lot if you put one small house, 2,000 euros, and that's unacceptable. It is even more unacceptable or unacceptable that the local community should pay more for one road than a few times the investment of that road because it runs through some parcels if, of course, those parcels are not metered. We well know that the vast majority of the local roads in the countryside are not measured because it is a huge cost, and this cannot be done by the congregation because they simply do not have the money to do so. The adoption of such a law meant an additional possibility of centralisation, including pressure on the local community and the abolition of municipalities. With all possible instruments, you have intervened in these areas, including the abolition because – not because of the purchase of land, but because of the plot that a family has, which is built – young people cannot simply build their own home there and thus stay in the Slovenian countryside. I agree with preserving the land for my own self-sustainment and so on. In this way, if the young family stays in the countryside, it will be next to the part taken by the house, I don't know, 100 square meters or 150 square meters, on that plot of 10 acres, because in the countryside there will be no asphalted parking lot for landing the helicopter, but there will be a garden, orchard, intensive production, which will also result in self-sustainment in these difficult times. That you thought of that now, but it's unfair, it's unfair. To put an end to this was during those great centralists, gentlemen who were still serving and creating huge wealth on this account. Last but not least, do you remember the affair and debates that were the owners of certain land, which were run by highways, land on which markets were built from Qlandi to Mercator, Mercury and so on. Who and how? Yeah, of course we know all that. Mr Jankovic is not guilty of anything in this country, the only problem will be that there will probably be no money from this compensation for the deblocking of his son's bankruptcy, as I read in Finance yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u93	Mr Pukšič, I propose that you focus on the debate and that you are correct. Mr Möderndorfer mentioned Mr Jankovic in the debate earlier and would suggest that you stick to the debate, not the children of anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u94	And you didn't stop him, Madam Vice President. Mr Möderndorfer should also be stopped, given that he mentioned Mr Jankovic. I thought that was desirable because I listened to him say that he mentioned Mr Jankovic. I just wanted to emphasize that and I didn't feel bad about his mention, just as you are now above mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u95	You were also talking about the kids. I suggest you speak of Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u96	I was talking about the first amendment, which I will not support, but I will support the second amendment proposed by the coalition because it is simply a mono-technical solution. My colleague spoke before me about the amendment to Article 6b, which I will also support, because it seems correct and fair to me that those who today, when we are discussing the law, are paying this to get it back. There is no logic, as I said, that it would be paid for that part of the land where, not only agriculturally, it might also be healed with thorns and so on, and then intensive production will be from garden to mini orchard, which also promotes self-sustainment. However, I certainly wish that our government would do more in this treatment of abandoned land. Those who have agricultural land do not process them, and this is a lot of weekenders who, at the expense of processing the vineyards, orchards and so on, even after the Slovenian Gorges, Haloza, these areas I know well enough, have also received compensation for the construction of weekends. Then they built nice houses there, vineyards there, and the orchards left behind, and there's still agricultural land. We have work to do in this area. I am pleased that the Minister is preparing a change of legislation in this area, too, so that we will be more successful here, especially in terms of increased self-sustainment and intensive production, because the country is as it is. Of course, we cannot increase size, but we can make a significant contribution to exploiting what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike some of the predecessors, especially those on the other hand, I believe that this law is absolutely necessary. I would like to start by asking those who changed the agricultural land law, the land regulation law and the building law in 2002 to call for some responsibility. I think that they did this on purpose and hurt the congregations, especially the country. And maybe later I'll explain why and how. Then came this unfortunate year of 2011 and a proposal for a law by the former Minister of the Jews, who, in my opinion, is a tsunami not only for rural development but mainly for rural development. We had already strongly opposed this law. We have been thinking about how to reduce this compensation as much as possible. I myself have been a very great advocate and an incentive for these compensations to even be abolished, because when data came from the field, when young families, young entrepreneurs, all those who want to stay in the countryside, were getting calculations of how much individual parcels cost them, they were appalled and told why they would even insist on this beautiful Slovenian land. All those who are in favour of this existing state are interested in where they were in 2002, 2003 and 2002-2011. For example, I will not talk about Ljubljana, because the predecessor has already said a lot about it, and large chains of trade have been built. Perhaps we can even adopt a law that allows these trading chains, which could build on the best agricultural land, to be slightly counter-constitutional and retroactive, to pay the tax back. Here, the state and the local communities have lost a lot of money, let this be the case for all these major trading chains, and let this be the country that was losing money. The highways were built on the best agricultural land, and no one was against it. On the contrary, this was encouraged. The ones we drive through Trebnje, that's more than we feel. I also have cases from my congregation where different companies or trading chains were built on the best agricultural land. They were all very happy. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to have a store on the best road. Everyone would probably like to have some McMercators, McTush and McInterspare. A lot of money was lost. At the same time, I would like to say that there have been a lot of comments at this time on the work of the Office, the former Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Why? Because some officials have taken some initiative, I'd say they've completely collapsed in the ballroom and they said, "No, this change is not possible at all, there's no condition." Then, during the night — one government or another government — it doesn’t matter at all — an official had that discretionary right that he could change overnight, or that exact agricultural land would be insecure. That seems very sacred to me. Mr Minister, as I said on the committee, I hope that officials will work under the letter of the law, not under their discretion. I see this law very well-intentioned especially for rural areas. I come from the countryside. They were referring to me as to whether or not we were going to change anything. For many think that they would not actually build a house. Many are the mini or macro entrepreneur who wants to build a small business building in measure, I don't know, 10 times 15 meters or something, a workshop. And when he asked because he had no luck having his own parents' land, he was faced with buying land, he was faced with the price of municipal contributions, long-term and rather expensive administrative matters. And finally, look at the fraction, in 2011, there was this unfortunate law that added costs. I know a case where a young man and a young family would build a house next to their parents 300 square feet, not talking about a thousand square feet, but building another 15 - to - 30 - meter - size workshop. And when he calculated all this, he passed. He had a house under the roof or almost on the key, but he did not pass the documentation or apply for a building permit. So I really don't get it. Sometimes I feel that those who are in favour of the existing 2011 law should be allowed as if you were all coming from Ljubljana and you do not want to develop for us others who do not yet have accepted municipal spatial plans. And even if we do, this escape from the countryside has been very noticeable in at least the last year. Maybe one more thing. There is a lot of talk by the opposition as well as by many NGOs about this so-called food security in the country. I would say once again that in this law we do not reduce agricultural areas in Slovenia by one square metre. This is what the municipal spatial plans are for. Like I said before, then an official takes a discretionary right where he's not allowed to go, and two years from now, he's allowed to stand there on the same request. This is completely incomprehensible to me. To conclude with regard to subsidies. The subsidies for the first resolution of the housing problem were passed by the government in 2005, then I think there was one or two novelties of the law where we raised this contribution and also spread the purpose. The Pahor's government, Mr Weber has forgotten to say this earlier, has greatly reduced this amount, and now this amount has been abolished. But we need to know who has that savings contract signed, and nothing changes for them, because these contracts will come to an end. We know that the savings period is between 5 and 10 years, but now if we put it in a financial structure, we can get, say, 300 euros a month on the basis of this law or this subsidy, and on the other hand, a tax of 20, 30 thousand euros has been granted to someone with some law, and we can calculate how many years, less than ten years, you're essentially this contribution, which is a subsidy, with one law right across the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Get Mr. Janez Ribič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The motions for this amendment, we are talking about the Group of Social Democrats, want the existing situation to be preserved. The current state of affairs means enormously high compensation, non-life. You probably all got a lot of letters in e-mail from bitter citizens who wrote us about their specific cases. You know, specific cases where the numbers for a single family house amounted to up to 30,000 euros before the building permit was obtained. Do you know what that means? It's lifeless. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the beginning of the drafting of this law, we were thinking about completely abolishing the damages, because this situation, as it is now, was unsustainable. In the coalition, we agreed to accept the compromise also because of the warnings of the profession, which we have taken into account to prepare the law in a way that would reasonably reduce or reduce compensation. I am pleased that the Social Democrats too find that this law needs to be corrected, and that they have now come to realize that this speech in adopting this legislation, that it is the best law to protect agricultural land and so on, is not so real. And I'm glad they're admitting that the damages that are being paid for the whole lot are unacceptable. What are we actually talking about? We are talking about agricultural land, but we are actually talking about land that is wally and is defined in the spatial acts of local communities as habitable land – not agricultural land, but agricultural land. The spatial act defines some land as wally and now we will, once all of this has been blessed in all ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture, and now we have collected some tax. Do you know where? We'll collect this high tax at the end. Not in the beginning. At the end. Which means that the investor is being burdened, and I think that's the wrong thing to do. But if, in that part of the coordination with the local community, there was no consensus, which I finally understand, it is now as it is. And what do we now suggest as a coalition? Only a reduction of these compensations. I'll just say it on one case or two. One example: apartment house, thousand square meters, 140 square meters of floor area of the building. At this point, 12,000 euros is being paid for. After the adoption of this law, I hope that we will adopt it, this will mean the payment of EUR 560. Of course I'm talking about ratings 60. The ratings go up to 100, and those best lands are going to pay the investor a little more. Public infrastructure is an even bigger problem. Since it is now being paid from the whole lot, or if we are talking about one road, that is from several plots, that is for one road, and I will not specifically speak, it amounts to 290,000 euros in compensation to be paid by the congregation. Following this new proposal, this will amount to 90,000 euros, which means we are only going to rationalise. Mr Möderndorfer earlier said he expected the minister to explain to him what the deletion of Article 1 meant. I'll tell you what it means. That means that you're for staying the way it is, that the damages are as high as they are. That means that. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party are absolutely opposed to this. But speaking of protecting the best agricultural land, let's talk about the cadastral of permanently protected agricultural land, but in a way that will be consistent with the local communities, so that the profession will work here. And then we can say, under the line, that from now on we will really protect the best agricultural land. However, we cannot talk about the protection of the best agricultural land in order to impose compensation on already vulnerable agricultural land. This seems wrong to the world, and I believe that, as we have already discussed, the Minister will draw up a regulation that will then be adopted by the Government, of course, with the participation of all those who can participate in this matter, so that the matter will then go in the right direction, i.e. to protect the best protected agricultural land. This will be the only thing that can lead to this solution that we all want after all. So much for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u101	Mr Jani Möderndorfer applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u102	Since you wanted to be a lawyer instead of a minister, I still expect an answer from the minister, not from you. You'll have to become a minister first if you want to answer on behalf of the government. But what's important is that what you wanted to explain is something completely different. The point is that I do not understand why you are proposing that certain problems of agricultural land, protected land, be spoken of here specifically with expertise, but we would like to resolve this change without any serious meaningful discussion and without systemic solutions to the entire law. Because you don't know what you're taking. Your predecessor said one thing very nicely, I like this marriage and it's like it is, it's good now and it's gonna be great. How if the Minister is preparing a law with new systemic solutions that will solve a particular problem in an integrated manner? For me, one thing is very clear. Maybe you'll make some simple people happy who really want to build just a house and nothing more. And God bless them so they can do it. But you will open the door wide to all speculators and resellers of the earth who in fact want only this and wait for you to lower and forgive them all they need to do. That's why I don't believe you because you're in an incredible hurry. It's awesome. Nevertheless, you have proved that all that is necessary is to be accepted in the National Assembly in a reduced and urgent manner. But I don't understand the minister who got down on this issue, because from the point of view of authority, expertise and competence he has with his entire team, this problem could be solved in the autumn work and no one would lose anything. However, the economic problem will not solve anything completely with this solution, as you have predicted in the proposal itself, as one of the elements of the country's economic promotion. I'm sorry. You shot yourself completely in the hole, but you opened the door to the speculators. That's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you asked for a replica of the replica. This is not possible under the Rules of Procedure, but you will have the opportunity, but only three other debaters are and Mr Minister, and you will be able to re-enlist and say so. Mr. Secretary has asked for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u104	Since you've only given us 10 minutes of time, I'll be saved in time and now I'm going to answer in this part. I have nothing to do with the clenched teeth for this table, because I estimate that this solution, which is proposed, as far as compensation is concerned, is the right time. At this time, we have also heard some things about how foreign investments are escaping us, how young families are moving across the border to Austria, where after 16 euros a parcel is bought, municipally equipped, with an average of 10 to 20 euros, in this range, a change of destination is paid for under the old law. We got a whole bunch of calls, and that's why we were making the marriage. It is true, however, that there were other solutions in the law, such as the solution for the government to draw up a regulation on permanently protected land. That's what we think is important. Another issue was the settlement in the area of agricultural land transport, where we believe a whole range of deviations are taking place, especially in the past, including the construction of agricultural buildings, the relocation of farms from settlements and so on. It's just a few solutions. We are preparing the law, as has already been said today, before the holidays, the harmonisation of this law will begin and will be submitted to Parliament for adoption in the autumn, and normally to the other stakeholders in this process. However, I also personally assess as Minister, given the definitely retaining of a whole type of investment, by which we met either at government visits on the ground or at daily meetings with the letters we receive that such a change is necessary. To a similar extent, with similar numbers, the solution was already in our draft law, which was prepared. Part of the coalition has decided to proceed quickly with this solution, which is an integral part of this law, and I can say that I agree with such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, the Sectional Services of the National Assembly have informed me that the Government will announce how long it takes. That way, I may suggest that you agree for a second time. Mr. Janez Fishich has the word to prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to say that I cannot support the amendment tabled by the SD Group of Members. I cannot support it because the compensation for changing the destination of agricultural land to a wally high is far too high. So I think it's important that something is done in this area. I also regret that, in the meantime, the change in the destination of agricultural land to wallowing was abolished in 2003 until last year, when we made the largest investments in the construction of motorways, in the construction of business zones, in the construction of shopping centres. All of this with a view to specific target groups, through state funds provided by banks through loans. And I think we've done a lot of damage to agricultural land here, a lot of damage to our country as well. I would like to say that I will support the second amendment to Article 3 tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. In doing so, I would add that consideration should be given and I would like to explain this in the next case. For example, the local community, the congregation, decides to change the spatial plan. It accepts this on its municipal council, then announces that individuals holding agricultural land can sign up to the congregation and make an application to change their agricultural land to a wally one. There they fill out the form and then the municipality takes the procedure forward. The municipality acquires professional services, obtains a variety of consents, which cost it a lot. Finally, he sends this to the competent ministries for confirmation, and when it comes back to the congregation, the municipal council once again accepts this confirmation, which the Ministry has decided, says what the state has decided. I always say that experts in municipalities who are at home in the relevant areas should decide not to look at it from different maps at ministries; I don't even know from my 17-year-old practice of running the municipality, so that someone will ever come by the ministry and look at what's smart, what's smart about staying agricultural. And when it comes back to the congregation, the proposer who proposed a change of destination, not a wheel or a euro, nor a centre gave it to him. Before this change, the agricultural land may have been worth one euro. After this change, if it has succeeded in transforming the agricultural land into walled land, it sells it for 50, 70 or 100 euros, depending, of course, on where it is. Now we find out, and we like to say, well, today a young family comes and wants to build there, let her pay for it, not the one who proposed a change of purpose and who earned it. And those speculators who went to change their agricultural land or bought it earlier and went to change it to become a construction site will be better by now. It is said that whoever buys them will have to pay for this change of purpose, not the one who sells it. I say this because of the fact that, even in this area in the future, as our Minister advocates, we would take another step forward in this area if we were to prepare such a law, and that we would also consider these matters how to resolve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u108	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I also welcome the Minister and his co-worker and, in particular, I must also welcome my fellow citizen, who, according to the new professional colleagues of the Positive Slovenia Group, is for good relations. I would say, first of all, that after today's debate, particularly from the opposition sides, there is some kind of impression that this government coalition is helping some land-messengers and that we are going to sell out this beloved agricultural land. Let me stress that this is only a matter of impression. What if we go in the right order? Those who have ever been mayors or councillors in this Hall are precisely those who determine the destination of individual lands. Not this government coalition, not this government, but the congregations, local communities, in a variety of ways. The destinations of the land are, after most congregations, if you look into the past, you will find that they were established there in the 1980 ’ s, and then there were later repairs. However, we all know the difficulties that the current legislation poses in the adoption of municipal spatial plans. And remember, for all these changes in the destination of land made by the municipalities, the Ministry of Agriculture or then the Ministry of Environment and Space must give consent. And then we get a modified land, for example, that some field becomes a walled land. And if I go in line, things will be clearer. There, at the end of the former government's term of office, a fellow Jew — don't blame me if I use this term — prepared the so-called Jewish law, which said that they would protect agricultural land in order to increase self-sustainment, there were a lot of nice words. Unfortunately, there wasn't much to this marriage. And the only result of this law is that more or less investments are made by municipalities. This is the final result of this law. And that I'm even more specific about what the law of the Jews brings. So that my fellow Jew doesn't blame me, of course, I believe that he did it with good intentions, but what kind of thing sometimes gets a little freaky. I'm trying to be plastic. If you, for example, try to replace and restore only one chair in this 90-seat hall, you must pay compensation for all 90. This is one of such anomalies, which proved that if you owned a large land, you had to pay compensation, even though you wanted to build an object only on a very small part of the land. And this will probably be remembered by colleague Weber when we were at a meeting on the third programme of Television Slovenia, even he insisted that this might not have been the most thoughtful and presumptive way of charging compensation for the entire land and not just the object. Of course, he reasoned that there had not yet been a precise definition of how to define it in order to charge the compensation solely for an individual object. What's the coalition proposal? I'm getting a little banal again, and I'm simplifying. If you have 90 chairs and you only want to restore one chair, you pay for only one chair and not all 90. Likewise, this proposal does not eliminate compensation, as it is highlighted in the public and as it is said, but reduces it. That's right. But it doesn't remove them. This is also a kind of compromise with the opposition, because the opposition has repeatedly shown us that we are not listening to it in any way and that this government coalition is going as a bulldozer, listening to no one and only roaring forward. Here, this bill has proved quite contrary. The coalition went with a proposal and also changed it slightly because of the efforts of the Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and someone else in this civil sphere. I would not say what this law actually brings now, because other colleagues have already said how and how compensation will be reduced. The fact is that with this law, which we will adopt before parliamentary holidays, we help those who want to build smaller housing facilities, those who also want to create greater investment, which, after all, could help our economy. It is a pity, because colleague Möderndorfer is not in the hall, because he said earlier that our proposal is going in the direction of speculators and resellers and that we will open wide opportunities for speculators and resellers. If I understand the word "spekulant" and "seller" – I understand it so that, for example, I do not mind Mr Gaspar Misič, if you are a seller of a certain land, I speak only as an example, I understand it by buying this land cheap and selling it a little more expensive. And that you do it all the time and all the time. This is for me a drug dealer and a speculator. But this one doesn't pay the damages. Pays the man who buys the land. If I buy land from Mr. Mišić – it is his good thing that, as a successful economist, one country buys and sells more expensively – and if I buy it, he will not pay that compensation under the Jewish law, but I will pay it. So, the thesis and the argument presented by Mr Möderndorfer simply does not. This law does not open wide doors to speculators and drug dealers. Together, we have received many letters and e-mails that we are encouraged by various civil society organisations to protect the agricultural land. I had this opportunity to discuss this subject with my fellow Jew. I must say that he has good ideas that, as Minister of Agriculture in the previous government, he has heard in Europe about a lot of good ideas, but unfortunately his law, and our law has been honestly said, he will not, in any sense, protect agricultural land in any sense. I'm afraid that's the truth. Agricultural land will be protected for the first time if farmers are simply paid to grow that these agricultural land will not grow with the forest over and over again. And secondly, if we have a regulation setting out strictly protected agricultural land from which there are no derogations. These are the two solutions I see. As long as we have these options, I do not think there will be any significant differences, because if in my village farmers tell me that agriculture is one loss and that they are doing so only because of their own joy, then what great future there is for protecting the best agricultural land. One last thought about self-sustainment, which is also a lot of talk that this law is supposed to bring down completely and what kind of bastards we are from this government coalition, that by adopting this law we will cause our self-sustainment to decline. To be honest, this law will not help or aggravate our self - care. That's a fact. For self-sustainment we can do the most ourselves if we buy our domestic products from our domestic farms in stores. But you see. The impact of shopping centres, where low-priced and unquality goods are sold from all possible places in Europe, is such that it is simply not worth farming for our farmers anymore. I think I've done a few things, I believe, because some of them have returned to the hall, that there will be some replicas, but I've been discussing everything in good faith, and I think someone else will add something to this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Tonin said the essential thing today: not the previous law, not the correction, will not solve what the minister should solve with a comprehensive change and amendment of the whole law. And that's all the opposition wanted. Not for the quick and not just the campaign, the part that's the most interesting. The answer to what you're saying. Of course, it's the speculator who's selling, and it's the buyer who's got to pay. Sorry, when the price goes down, including these final prices, the sales go up. So, who's the one who's gonna earn it again? Mr. Tonin, this is the barefoot you sold and tried to argue it as an excuse for not doing so. But the point is, we're not against change. Far from it! We're against your crazy rush and partial problem-solving. Leave the work of agriculture to the Minister of Agriculture, for he himself has announced, repeatedly, on the committee today! In the fall, tell me, how many individual houses are going to be built, from today to September, and all the problems will be solved? I don't believe it. People will go on vacation, they'll do something smart, they'll solve all the paperwork in full, so they can get a building permit, unless Minister Chernač arranges to get a building permit on four sheets in one day, which he predicted. So, give the minister a chance to finish the job. That's all this is about. However, changes are necessary. Far from not. And here's where you're right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Any of the others mentioned? No, no, no. Mr. Weber You will later, you have indeed been mentioned, but then you will. Mr Gaspar Gaspra Mišič has the floor, then the application again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u112	Vice President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! The area of agriculture is too serious to interfere with agricultural legislation quickly. There have been too many mistakes in this area. Also, the 2011 law is just a stone in the mosaic of mistakes and with today's novel this mosaic is just a complement. It is true that we are correcting something, but all we are doing is a mosaic of farm errors. Slovenian agriculture calls directly and, if you want, asks for systemic regulation, a system law that will be the product of a broader debate, cross-cutting cooperation and coordination and should all be based on professionally prepared programmes and strategies. All the laws we adopt in this temple of democracy should have some professional basis and, above all, a strategy. The strategy gives us many answers: where, where, why, with what financial means and, of course, when. We don't have it, and when we don't have it, it's logical to make mistakes and make mistakes and make mistakes from day to day. And in this temple of democracy, too often, we speak words, words, whose meaning must make sense. That's the way it is, Mr. Tonin. I understand your meaning and your words. The entire professional public in agriculture after 21 years of independence of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the situation in the agricultural field is not good. We don't have to be Einsteins to find out it's not good. In fact, what's happening to us is happening to us. As with us, no one, but no one, is ready to accept responsibility for a bad situation: not politics and not profession. Yet, some and others have brought us into today’s situation. For many years we have been monitoring the cultivation of agricultural land. These are today, gentlemen, 200 thousand hectares. Nevertheless, the profession and policy does not want to acknowledge that their existing measures to protect agricultural land and the entire agricultural policy are the most responsible for the poor. We still do not have a national programme and we still do not have a built-in cadastral and nor do we have a regulation for permanently protected agricultural land. We still do not have a market policy for agriculture. Creating conditions for food production is not sufficient condition for the survival of the Slovenian farmer and agriculture. Gentlemen, politicians and professionals have overlooked that by entering the European Union we have become only a small part of the global market and that nothing is sold on its own, nor are agricultural crops. The key reason for the cultivation of agricultural land is precisely the wrong agricultural policy, which has forgotten that, in addition to the conditions for food production, it must also create conditions for the market area and, above all, the conditions for the Slovenian farmer to sell his crops. Today, however, we are discussing whether or not there is a compensation, but no matter how or what, dear gentlemen, Slovenian farmers, we change this or these laws, they always draw short. At least that Slovenian farmer who works hard and works hard. However, those who skillfully exploit this agricultural policy, which we have implemented for the full 21 years, are, of course, richer and richer. As in the other areas of the lobby, there are certain lobbying in the agricultural field, which has been suited to this fishing in the mud. What are we doing today? Are we trying to protect agricultural land? No, it's not! This law does not protect agricultural land. Not even a Slovenian farmer. In fact, we are charging with some compensation for the one who wants to build on an already unwalled building site. And this is where we mix things up a little bit. In my opinion, we should introduce compensation when agricultural land has indeed changed into a building or into an unwalled building and not after 20 years. For example, some buds were adopted in 1977 when a land was identified as a building for the expansion of local communities or cities or villages. Today, we are mainly wasting time and energy, rather than actually empowering and engaging experts and all those who are really called upon to come up with a strategy and everything we need for agriculture and systematically regulate this legislation. Mr. Secretary, system! That's what we have to do. A system to save the Slovenian farmer and agriculture. In this global world, if we don't know how to act, we can literally eat fightrs for the next few years and we won't do anything. Nothing's gonna help me. We need to sit down at the table once and for all and talk and not get ahead of ourselves. Therefore, even in Positive Slovenia, if you have followed us, we have been very constructive on the committee. But we do not want to get ahead of ourselves! Because this rush with the ZUJF is already showing up in one big negative. A lot of minus, a lot of damage is done to Slovenes and Slovenes and to all citizens and citizens. That's why we don't want to get ahead of ourselves. That is why I will also abstain personally, and in Positive Slovenia we have agreed that we will not actually support laws that are incomplete, which may even harm or only partially correct some of the injustices of the past. We've got plenty of time, a few months, and we can save it. With the system law, Mr. Minister, I hope that you will succeed in September, that is to say that you will have to work and work during summer vacations. I don't think you'll be able to handle what's not experts after 21 years. Therefore, it is necessary to take time, and when you take the time — you make a mistake. Because it's human to be wrong. But we've been wrong for 21 years, which is a sad conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for me, too. Mr Jože Tanko spoke as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! With regard to Article 3, or with this amendment, we would like to read one paragraph, one quote from one of the discussers on another occasion. He said: "I stress once again that if this thought was to talk about the law, that on land where this is already defined, there is no compensation to be paid, we have no problem. This is what we wanted to propose and actually do. This would be our marriage proposal if we had the opportunity to run the government. Once again, compensation would also be paid if they reached the agricultural land, precisely for the construction plot; that is, the area that you permanently lose for the area where the building stands, not for the entire plot of land as it has been so far. These are indeed warnings that we have heeded and that we would like to legitimize if that wish were so. And also inside the settlements to pull down a building – we have no problems." This is a statement by one of the leaders of the parliamentary groups at the College of the National Assembly when we confirmed the reduced procedure on 4 June; this was Mr Weber. The amendment we are proposing is, in fact, precisely in this context – it reduces the area for which we are accounting, reduces the amount of compensation and so on. In short, we see that the policy that adopted this amendment of the law in the previous term has also realized that the issue is too grave, too. Mr Weber, I understand that you would have amended this if you had run the government in this mandate. That's your statement from the College on June 4. So we know that this is a broader problem, which is concrete. In this context, I think there is also a need to lead the debate. It is said that between a college and a discussion at a meeting of the National Assembly and those proposed by an individual or a parliamentary group, there cannot be such a great discrimination between the position, the preservation of matters and knowledge and the announcement of support or the announced support that this must be regulated in exactly the same context as this amendment. The other thing I wanted to say was speculators or speculation. We also have some experience in the National Assembly. Most speculations occur before certain status changes occur on land, that is to say, in the procedures for changing spatial plans. We monitored and considered such events in a congregation, a little larger when some lands were not and could not become habitable until a real buyer bought them. Then, with such a modified owner, it started a process to change the destination of agricultural land. Suddenly, these agricultural lands, worthless and out of date, are irrelevant to a small congregation, have become the main capital for a building. We have all been following this story in the previous term. There were different buyers, even some from Cyprus and so on. And there's a speculation between some land that he can't, if there's no real owner, change the status, and then it can happen when the real buyer of this land comes. Here is the earnings from a few euros per square meter to 200 euros in some extreme cases, and these are the earners who are exempt, and these are speculators. They're first-class speculators. However, those who would buy such a land and would like to build it should pay it and extra burden it, because it is a modified agricultural land, because of speculation a changed agricultural land, they get some status, and they would charge it with a few ten euros per square metre, because the agricultural land needs to be protected. I think that the process of speculation and speculators must be properly put in place. Those who want to build are not speculators. Speculators are those who do not allow the change of some agricultural land to be walled if the owner is not suitable. And, gentlemen, look at the files from a few years ago, as well as from the last period, and you'll find out who was dealing with who was a speculator. We'll save these stories quickly. As for procedures, speed, jurisdiction. We are all here, not just the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Transport, but we are called upon to propose a legislative change in cases where we find that some matters do not work. One will be proposed by members of the coalition, one by members of the opposition, the other by the government. You don't have to lie about anything here, colleagues, just the responsibility of the minister. We're all responsible. And the Minister said very well earlier that a broader amendment of the agricultural land law was being prepared, which must be included in the procedure due to the nature of the intervention by another interested public and local community. That is why this problem should be resolved more quickly or should have been resolved in the previous term when this error, which Mr Weber spoke about at the College of the President of the National Assembly, was identified. At that time, we should change it immediately, not wait a year, and now we pour our ashes and talk about how necessary it is, whether it is not necessary, or that it is happening too quickly. The kind of thing that you find out she's abnormal is to be done immediately. If the procedure is a problem, if there is a problem with the government, then such amendments should be proposed by Members. And one more thing, fellows! The system law on agricultural land has been adopted. We are now dealing only with the innovations of the existing solution. One is proposed by the Members with signatures, the other proposed by the Ministry and so on. We probably don't need a new system law because we have it. However, certain shortcomings need to be addressed. And here, fellows, it is not at all a question of whether we follow regular procedures and talk indefinitely or certain changes where the rules of procedure permit it, we are governed by reduced procedures. This should be rectified if the previous government could do so, following an urgent procedure, which we are now speaking and dealing with following a reduced procedure. This should be urgently regulated in the previous term and also prevented speculators from arriving at cheap agricultural land in order to achieve, where they had influence and power, a change of status, also within the foundation of the purpose of the building and so on. And we should do this somewhere else. If this is still a problem, you can fix it now. I think there's probably some kind of problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I find that there is still interest in the debate, so I am opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I will begin the debate in the part where my colleague Tanko concluded it. I would like to remind him that the Agricultural Lands Act was adopted or enforced in June 2011, in October 2011, a vote of no confidence in the previous government and to speak of the fact that as soon as that previous government had to settle everything, it is incorrect and it is right to remind him that the zealous advocacy of early elections by the SDS was one of the great reasons that this law was not added to the part where it was found that problems are being encountered. However, the essential difference between what we would certainly have done if we had changed this law and what is happening now that the coalition Members have tabled this law is that we would not have gone without the cooperation of the profession, followed a reduced procedure and not sought, I would have said, narrow solutions to meet pre-election promises. Let me say that what has been read from the College of the President of the National Assembly, when we discussed the procedures by which a single item of the agenda should be dealt with, remains to be held and I still stand behind these words. Social Democrats continue to believe that payments of change of destination should be fully exempt from payments for land that is within or within the surrounding backgrounds. I'm sure no profession would object to that. However, the procedure or consideration of this law has already shown that if someone owns this parcel and has already paid the compensation and has not yet begun to build, the question has been raised as to what has been the result of the compensation that has already been paid. Therefore, it is important to be very careful before you go into such a change of law, and that is why I have already discussed today that in this case it would be wiser to provide replacement land, because you do not interfere with already paid compensation, but to ensure that you can build on another land, which, of course, is either more appropriate or more appropriate, however we see this as a substitute, let's say, would not be. All these options should be studied before you go into law reform. And I stress that this is an essential difference between how we think about amending the law and how, of course, a ruling coalition that is not concerned about the consequences of adopting and amending legislation. There were also a number of questions why the refund was suspended in 2002 and 2003 for the change in the destination of agricultural land. For a simple reason, since the then system of charging compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land encouraged changes in agricultural land. In fact, some of these funds were received by the congregation. The municipality, as you all correctly determine, is the one that is initiating a procedure to change the spatial plan of the congregation and, of course, there is a very quick accumulation of interest here. If we want to bring money into the municipality, let us change the spatial acts so that they can be built on agricultural land. That was the concept of action. And let me remind you that you also have all those who have already warned right — highways have intervened dramatically on agricultural land. And when you ask me what we did to the Social Democrats during this period and why we did not point out that, once again, I would like to make it very clear to you that the Social Democrats have put an interpellation against the then Minister responsible for agriculture, Mr Smurf, because he has agreed to amend the spatial acts on the basis of which it has been possible to build motorways across the best agricultural land. That was the reason, one of the reasons for the interpolation. Of course, it was then that SDS voted in favour of Mr Smrkol to allow for a change in the destination of agricultural land and the construction of motorways on agricultural land. If we had stopped then, if we had listened to the Social Democrats at the time, we would not have so much lost agricultural land and today we could say that we have intelligent planning in space and we are interfering really there in agricultural lands where it is necessary. And to all those who are talking about deleting an article in this law that we want to preserve the existing situation, I would like to present in at least a short time, but what does it mean if we keep the existing situation alive. In fact, it was said that I also spoke of the absence of the definition of the construction plot, and therefore also in the Agricultural Lands Act, when it was adopted in 2011, it was not possible to define the area under the facility as the area for which compensation for the change in agricultural land was to be charged. I will now read to you what you wrote, what is said in the current Article 3 that we are dealing with right now. "The floor area is considered to be the floor size of the building in contact with the land", listen, "in accordance with the regulation governing the project documentation". Now I'm asking you, which regulation regulating the project documentation should we take into account. Or, to put it domestically, there is no such rule. And when you tell people today that they're going to pay compensation only for the floor area where the object is going to stand, that's deceiving because there's no such rule. And the difference between what you are doing and what we wanted to achieve by the Social Democrats is that before we go into amending the Agricultural Lands Act, first in the second law, we need to define what that plot is, how to name it, and define it in spatial legislation, that is, the plot on which the object stands. This is the principle of rescue, and this is a normal principle and a normal course of rescue, not the other way around. So it must be made clear to people that you are also not saving anything by means of this doctrine, which is enshrined in this law. You're referring to a prescription that doesn't exist. I think that I've actually given some of the answers to what we've been doing and why we're doing what we're doing. However, I would just like to present the actual situation that is currently in place at this point when you are talking about that municipalities should also pay dearly for the change in the destination of agricultural land for infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, sports facilities, social services, whatever the municipality or the state is investing in. The fact is that 70 % of these investments are already covered by the current law. Plus, the current law provides additional relief for those 30% of what the local community or the state is supposed to pay. If you applied for a building permit by the end of 2011, you were fired for an additional 50%. If you apply for a building permit in 2012, you have a 30% exemption. And there is also an additional exemption if you apply for a building permit for infrastructure for kindergartens, schools and so on until the end of 2013. Therefore, one important transitional period is envisaged where an investor can prepare to build on the best agricultural land or go to build on land because there is no substitute for it. And the purpose of deleting this Article is to maintain the current situation in such a way that we turn investors and all those who want to interfere with agricultural land away from it and to decide to build in areas that do not have the status of farmland. That's all logic. With a change to what you are proposing today, this will no longer be, but it will again be perfectly normal, if I may say so, on your part, for these compensations to be rigorously reduced and planned again in spatial acts to build on the best agricultural land without high compensation. That's wrong. That's wrong. If we are aware of this, I think it can be significantly easier to tell people what this is about and why we have proposed certain solutions and why the current law also allows for a completely normal construction if it is in areas that do not have the status of agricultural land or are defined for agricultural use. Last but not least, we are going to an extraordinary session, probably already as foretold, in the following week, where you are investing a whole package of spatial legislation, where in your opinion spatial acts may change if someone does not agree with those responsible for regulating the premises within 15 or 30 days, this is not taken into account. The spatial act is being adopted. We're moving on. So even if you want to help someone who owns a parcel on agricultural land, with a new spatial act you can assign a parcel in an area that does not have agricultural land status if you want to be consistent at least with yourself. But you obviously didn't think about it either, and you went into procedure, the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, which, when you reach the agricultural land, definitely allows us to lose the agricultural processing area forever. Forever. She's gone. So it's an irreplaceable natural resource that's simply gone. The current, I would say, investors' interests and so on, indeed with all due respect, but the consequences are so severe and so long-term that an additional thought is needed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Pišek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I come from the countryside and I know what agricultural land means for food production. There's all one house near the house, one orchard, a little field. And here comes the problem of what to do with this field. Since we are so small we do not have a mechanism, we do not have a tractor to process it, we are too small to be in the interest of any farmer to buy it, and we do not benefit from it. Most or many of them are already leaving these small plots that are placed between apartments and houses. It's the perfect place for this to turn into a building. But today we are not talking about this law, where we would be turning agricultural land into buildings in the future, but we are talking about a law that had already foreseen a change from agricultural land to building land, and we are not taking anything now. We are only talking about last year's accepted compensation, which has determined, in our opinion, too high compensation in the area of settlements. I can tell you one case. In my office, a person called, a lady with a name and surname, so there are people who bought her daughter a parcel three years ago. The young family gladly rented a loan, squandered money for building a house, acquired material, and then came this law, which we should pay, I think, 12 or 14 thousand euros in compensation. They almost had a stroke because they didn't know what to do. Second case. As a result of this great compensation, educated people went looking for a plot elsewhere, they didn't care where they were, if they couldn't be in the local congregation, we were going to the other end of Slovenia. In the end, they went to Austria. We lost one promising young family, educated people who probably will never come back because they also got jobs there. The fact that the law was wrong also shows that after the compensation was collected, I think about two thirds were paid directly by the municipalities and the state. This means that people are actually waiting or unable to afford it to go into construction, or they are waiting for what will change or if anything changes. Individual construction is virtually stalled, I speak for these small municipalities, for rural areas, where I come from, in Ljubljana the situation is probably different, because there may be changes in lobbying or other levers. With us, for example, I can say that for eight years there has been no change in the spatial plan, if you get anything, it is possible 10% of what we propose or want. So we're not afraid to lose land on this account to self-sustaining crops. I think it is imperative that we change this law today, even though only in this part that speaks of compensation, so that tomorrow those who have the chance will be able to start building up will not be able to go to Austria tomorrow. Later, it will still be time to make up for what is needed in the second phase. This means that we define agricultural areas where it will not be possible to build. We now know that these classifications, which are essentially irrelevant, are no longer valid and that classifications need to be redefined. And when we change that systemicly, we can also change the part where speculators are prevented from making profits by some kind of financial law. This means that what has already been proposed is that the change will be paid or that the tax or duty will be paid at the time of the change and that the value will be increased by 20 times, 30 times. By no means should we burden these people, who hardly fit for one small house to solve the housing problem, because we, as a country, will have them on our backs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Today we have before us a change to the Agricultural Lands Act. Agricultural land is or should be a sacred thing in this country. Normally this country in recent times is spoken of as a culture, but it has to be said that Slovenian farmers have made it possible and that Slovenian languages have been preserved by Slovenian farmers. In history, all those who come from farmers know what sacred things were like agricultural land. They were even more of a world before Kardelj began his socialist transformation of the village when the spines were deliberately broken, and this, of course, has left the consequences to this day. Until the farmer became a profanity. At that time, agricultural land lost its value. Of course, we came to a stage where agricultural land was no longer respected and radical laws had to be introduced. One was introduced by a fellow Member, Minister of the Jews, who is now leaving the hall, and went to another extreme. He went to such a rigorous price for the change in agricultural land, which made normal investment impossible on the other hand, and we have other negative consequences. However, these changes in the destination of agricultural land, which are very rigorous and very high in general judgments, are not, of course, the most expensive changes in the history of agricultural land in Slovenia. Significantly more expensive were the changes in the forest plot at Tezne in Maribor – paid with 2,000 lives – or forest plots in Kočevska Breg paid with 12,000 lives or much more had to be paid for an extremely expensive change in agricultural land to the sea. Now, of course, we must be realistic. What does it matter to this country? I think that the right attitude towards the farmer, his profession, his status as the best protector for the protection of agricultural land, because once, when there were no urbanists, not all other inspections and offices, the farm did not destroy the square metre of agricultural land unless it was absolutely necessary. You can see how the settlements were built. If you are looking at the Drava field from Šikol to Lovrenc in Dravska Polje there are six or seven villages, but strictly all houses, all villages formed on the edge of the swamp. The house was already where there was no more soil, barns, and other things that went on from the house, and it had already reached into swamps where there was no more first - class land because it was less valuable. That's how it's been for centuries. This began to collapse only after World War II with all the negative contents that were at that time. I think that this law is a rational matter and that it needs to be confirmed with some more nominal improvements. I can't support this third article. However, I support the amendment of the coalition and, of course, I count that once we introduce this law, we will normalise matters. That's what I'd say. I had heard earlier that Mr Möderndorfer had said that this law would open the door wide for all speculators. It must be said that in the sentence he is disturbed by "all speculators." If we open to speculators, he's been disturbed by "all" because so far there have been "sacred" speculators in this area. I know that Mr Möderndorfer is dedicated to speculators who have traded land even through Cyprus, but I do not know what, but some families who have traded in Ljubljana do. These were indeed dedicated speculators who, not only in the field of agricultural land but also in the area of banking, have made huge financial holes. And these were consecrated speculators. I hope we don't open the area to speculators. If so, it is better to "all speculators" because the price of speculators is going to go down. Then the speculators will compete and the price will fall. So far, only some families, some dedicated power centers, have dealt with these matters and speculated on changes in the spatial plan. Also, many of these benches — or he has left the debate during this time — have experience in making money. And unfortunately, there was a lot of speculation, and it destroyed the farmer, the healthy economy, and thus led Slovenia so far as it is now in an extremely crisis situation. As a result, we must adopt normal laws, allowing normal people to build buildings, so that they can develop their economic activities. To open a space for the ideas and innovation of Slovenians and to protect a normal farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thanks again for saying that. I feel that today, with the exception of some of the few representatives from Ljubljana, we speak mainly to those who do not come from Ljubljana but from the countryside. It is very interesting, however, because the existing law is defended by two leaders of the parliamentary groups, who are from very different places. Mr Weber comes from Kočev, where there is a lot of agricultural and forest areas and, on the other hand, Mr Möderndorfer from Ljubljana, where I do not think they have these problems by changing their destination, especially after they have adopted the UN. No one today has explicitly touched the problem of contagion. According to data officially available, there has been a very interesting establishment in the last 20 years. From the agricultural surfaces we got a lot of forest areas, we're talking about 200,000 hectares of these areas, which is huge for small Slovenia. Thus, all those who defend so-called agricultural land, where they have been in these years, when all of Slovenia, will be in Dolenjska, Podravje, Pomurje or anywhere in Gorenjska, when young people left rural villages very quickly. One problem is also the issue of ratings. We know that ratings are some sort of old relic from the previous system. This is a problem in practice and a situation on a monitoring basis with an official. So there are bizarre situations where there's a very steep shore somewhere, and there's someone who doesn't blame me, a god behind my back, rated with a ratings of 90, and on the other hand, we have a nice plain in the middle of the countryside, where there's a rating of 50. Thus, the issue of ratings is one of the problems that we will have to solve further in addressing agricultural problems. I strongly support the proposal we have proposed in the amendment not to apply the whole parcel to land and to exempt those lands that are under the 50th grade from this law. With regard to compensation for change of destination and for speculators, I think quite a few colleagues have been very specific. I believe that Ljubljana does not have this problem because they have already adopted the UN and have turned the vast amount of the best agricultural surfaces into wally. It would probably be very interesting to calculate how much this change would have been if it had not been for this law by the time the UNO was adopted, how much this would have brought into the state budget. I think we are very close to the difference we have from the previous law, where 20 million were foreseen, and the actual realization of 4 million. Now talk about if the current situation persists and how the biggest shopping centers will no longer be on the best agricultural surface – I think logic is wrong here. I don't imagine Mercator or Tuša or Intespar that I won't do anything wrong and other foreign investors to build the biggest malls 10 km outside the city center. I think there are such great players on the Slovenian floor that they can afford it. That's why we're not driving these malls out. I think these malls have another problem because they are already in every village, and I don't think they even have any real basis or basis to continue to expand this activity or build new business facilities. Mr Möderndorfer, when he spoke earlier about tax relations with agriculture, may not have read precisely the ZUJF, the Public Finance Balance Act, where we write nicely about how we introduce a profit tax due to a change of destination, so that I suggest to the gentleman that he read these articles. In addition, in the coalition contract, this government also has a commitment that we are likely to introduce a tax on uninhabited building sites. There may be another very big step ahead of us — taxation of all empty apartments. Information or data resulting from official evidence shows that Ljubljana is particularly sparsely populated, given all these needs it has. One more, there was earlier talk about the cadastral duration of protected agricultural land. Here I warn you, when systemic solutions are being prepared, that we will not make another mistake, as we have done with the introduction of Nature 2000 when, with each project being implemented across Slovenia, we run into Nature 2000 and we have, I will say, many more problems with it than the positive solutions that this Natura 2000 has put in place. Perhaps I would like to comment on another sentence that was said earlier about how Members should not propose something. If that were the case, I think the opposition would have very big problems proposing anything because they are not a government. However, I must say that in the previous two mandates, when I was a professional co-worker, especially at the time of my position, I would gladly support this proposal, because then my work in the National Assembly would be much easier. So I won't be too long. I will support the proposal of coalition parties, as I said before, I would prefer to draw the so-called Jewish law that reintroduced these damages and thereby gave a large bar to the development or survival of the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I must say that I will not support the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats. But I will support the amendment proposed by the coalition parties. Why am I not going to support the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats? I am convinced that with this amendment, the Social Democrats want to fully evaluate the amendment of the law now tabled by the coalition. I cannot understand that today they were told from these benches that this law, which they adopted at the time in the previous term, is absurd, is contrary to everything that I will not say, with everything that can be done badly for a Slovenian man. With this law you have done exactly what you have shown through the entire previous mandate of your three-year leadership of this country. Only higher penalties, higher taxes, new taxes, total destruction of this country's public finances and so on, but I will not go into this. So after three years, when the electorate and the electorate told you very clearly that your leadership of your decision and everything you've done or most of what's bad and harmful to this country, you still don't want to understand that we're trying to tell you that the legislation that was adopted at the time has to be amended. And today there have been quite a few indications on this by the Social Democrats, and the Slovenian Democratic Party because before the elections this is and it has promised it, so this law, the amendment of this law, is being tabled. Yeah, for God's sake, what were we saying before the people's elections? What were we talking about? That's why we had programs, so we told people before the elections how we're going to solve their situation. And thank God that there is a coalition in this House and this party is in principle that what they promised before the elections is still being realized. And one of these solutions is this law, because these compensations, which are listed here, are enormous, are unacceptable to most citizens and citizens not to talk about investors in economic operators. And you said that this law practically has nothing to do with the economic development of this country. Ask those people who call me every day. Come into the environment a little bit, among the people, and you'll see what people say. They've got money, but they're not going to file it, and they're waiting for this law to change. And if you're building buildings, if you're investing in infrastructure, etc., aren't you helping the economy? Who can claim it here, the one I don't know where it came from. Well, if someone's building a house, they have to buy construction materials, they pay VAT in the state budget, etc., so I don't talk. Painters work, builders, carpenters, etc. Aren't these our employees, these aren't the people to be helped? If we want to help these people or the law of the economy, it is also right to withdraw and replace such laws that hinder the development of the economy with those that will be written on the skin by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And I am convinced that this law, this amendment of the law, is supported by most citizens and citizens, by absolutely nothing in this law, to do any harm in protecting agricultural land. Absolutely no harm at all. Why don't you go take a look at the periphery, and you'll see why there's a lot of agricultural land growing in the woods. Why? Because people, young people who are at home, can't get the chance to build anything. They have no conditions to obtain a building permit. On the other hand, when we look at rural areas, most people live on average, and it is very difficult for them to afford what we have imposed on them by this law to pay between €15 000 and €25 000 for an average plot for a change of destination alone. Yeah, who, which young family with this salary, with these 600, 700, 800 euros, can afford it? Tell me that. And how, then, can a government adopt such a law to further impose it on people? What, in a situation like this? Look, nobody in the world is gonna convince me that I'm such a fool to understand this, and even less that I'm such an idiot that I could send it to the National Assembly. I definitely think it is right and responsible, and I am also happy today, but this time I must also commend Positive Slovenia, regardless of the discussions of individuals who said they would abstain from this law, so they will not oppose this law because they are generally convinced that this solution is a good one. Indeed, some debaters have talked about it, we need to work slowly, we need to do everything else, we are what is most important at this point, and we need to help and make life easier for people. In the coalition and in the government, however, we are aware that this must be done immediately, as soon as possible, at the shortest possible time that we do not bring this country to the point that the rule of the former party has left us, the government of the Social Democrats who led the government at that time. I hope that, at least now that we're all here telling you that you've done some things wrong, let's at least be so honest with the Slovenian people, to the Slovenian people, to our people, and say, "Look, here's where we made a mistake, let's make this mistake together now," and let's allow ourselves as little time as possible to have such wrong solutions burdened the Slovenian man. And that, Han, Mr. Han, is not funny, believe me, it's funny. Ask the people, go among the people. Not those who have everything, most are those who have very little. And my goal, and the goal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is to help those people who are struggling to break through from day to day. This is our mission and our basic function. And to prevent those who have become rich and have become rich at the expense of most poor people who are hard to live. And believe me, we didn't have a heart, and it's very difficult for me to say here today, but I am pleased to say this, the legislation that we have now adopted, including some that is burdening our people, we have not adopted it because we want it, but we have had to save this country so that the people of December will receive pensions so that the teachers will get paid and so on. Because public finances needed to be stabilised. And now all of you together, the opposition is very attached to those who in every way try to make some resistance now, a resistance against those who have just taken those decisions that have been urgently needed and beyond which we have not been able to stabilise public finances. True, there may have been a mistake in these laws, but it is certain that the government will correct it. It is not to be expected that if you make some decisions in advance, you will be able to anticipate all the effects of this law. That's not possible. And that is why I believe that we are so capable and will make decisions that will be written to most of our citizens and citizens on the skin. By no means, however, I am sure that we will not repeat the mistake of the SD and its rule that we will bring this country as far as you have brought it. I do not support this amendment of the Social Democrats. I support the law in its entirety, and also that part of the law, or that amendment, which will still come to pass when we talk about that compensation to those who have paid these compensations in this year, this compensation will be reimbursed in accordance with the difference between the one and that law. If we want to talk about permanent protection of agricultural land is my colleague, I think that Robi Hrvat said this very clearly before, if we want to protect the best agricultural land, it is necessary to establish a cadastral of permanently protected land. I think if we do this, and Mr Minister said today that things are being prepared, then we have settled this problem, arranged it in such a way that it will be acceptable for most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that people will not be burdened in advance with what there is no need for. The effects of this law have proved to be virtually zero, only the burden of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They didn't have any other effects. None. That is why I feel that such laws in the National Assembly should no longer be adopted. At least I'm sure I'll do everything in my power to enact legislation that will be written on our people's skin. It's our job, it's our responsibility. In the National Assembly, I'm absolutely not interested in demagogy. But I want to know how our people live, how they live, how they live in Shentil, Poet, Kungoti, who destroys everything every other year and so on. That's what I'm interested in. And we're going to charge those people to pay this kind of compensation if they want to build a house somewhere or an asset or something. And you, the Social Democrats with this amendment, which you have tabled in Article 3, are trying to do just that, just to impose on those people, to continue to pay between 15 and 25 thousand euros in compensation for one such facility. But this goes beyond all limits, and so please, I appeal to you that such an amendment, if you can, withdraw, or I will gladly reject it myself and vote against this amendment because it believes that people in Slovenia do not deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u126	President, thank you for your word. I have decided to apply to the debate in order to have the opportunity and to highlight another problem of rural areas where, for the most part, there is poor agricultural land. I come from the Trnovsko-Banja Planet, which is most of this karst area, where there is a poor surface of the earth, especially it is rocky and is at altitudes of between 400 and 800 meters, so you can then imagine how difficult life is for each individual and how farming is also here for the most part difficult and gives a bad crop. However, I know that in this area, and probably elsewhere in Slovenia, these bad lands are categorised as agricultural, but they are in nature poor, even with poor rating, even because of the position of this karst area. But when we want to sell land like that, let's fight a little bit for it. I think the price per square metre of such agricultural land in this karst area is somewhere between €1 and €2, which is absurd. On the other hand, when we want to make a change in the destination of a larger parcel under the current law, because we want to build a smaller house, we have to pay for a change in the destination of between €10 and €25 000, depending on the size of the plot, because the current law does not offer a change of destination only in the work where the house would be. These expensive and long - term procedures from this area of young people basically encouraged and forced them to move to the nearby city of Novo Gorica. I'm a case like this myself. I understand very well everyone who sees this problem, who is not willing to invest this money in this costly change of purpose, but rather invest it in buying an apartment. You know, once you move into town, believe me, it's really hard to go back to the countryside. In fact, the current law has been an obstacle to the ability to stay in rural areas and also to return to rural areas. With this proposed change, we offer to young people, and I hope they are aware of this, not only to young people, but also to others, that they remain in the countryside or return to the countryside. This whole karst countryside is also growing very steadily, and so is this frequency of fires in this area. The forests are approaching villages and settlements because they are not cleaning up the area because they are not working. And when we wonder why we see wildlings sometimes in the yard, that's also the problem. Even in the countryside, most of the old people who have neither the ability nor the will to clean up these areas are unable to do so. As a result, these areas are more and more than I have already said, they are infested. This new proposal of the law, because of this possibility of a smaller contribution, has already increased the possibility of moving even in the countryside, of providing more self-sustainment and of re-sustainment, I hope, as a result of this livestock industry, which is also in our midst. Also due to this opportunity to build buildings, it is likely that some rural tourism will be born, some new jobs will also be opened, some complementary activities will be opened up, so that in this economic and social crisis this is actually to be welcomed and it is also absolutely necessary. Our Slovenia is very forested, as we know. With the construction of these buildings in the agricultural area, there will also be opportunities to exploit the forest as a complementary activity or as a regular job. It is in our area that the Regional Development Agency of Northern Primorska implements and implements the project Buy Goriška. It is not about selling or buying Goriška, but it is about wanting to encourage farmers and farmers of these domestic agricultural crops to become more connected in order to establish a centre where these crops could be sold. I am afraid that this law will not be adopted by this amendment, that it will remain as it is now, so on some status quo, which does not offer any further encouragement and opportunities for this production. Now, not only does this law pay more compensation for the change of destination than the land plot area on which the project would be built, as I have said, does it also bring about the resurgence of rural areas with the possibility of greater rural settlement and also a new opportunity for young people to stay in the countryside and return there. That is why I will support the amendment of this Agriculture Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u128	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have before me the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Agricultural Lands Act. I quote, "indemnities have been introduced as an instrument for the protection of agricultural land". In doing so, I am deeply saddened by the exceptional ignorance of the procedure, and by the fact that the security guard protecting the change of agricultural land to building land is the place for which this law, which has been passed by the previous government and which also concerns their amendment, is now being built. And in such a way that enormously high compensation is introduced, these already building sites are absolutely not protected. It's very good to know what the procedure is. They are either local communities or individual investors. And who is he that has the shears and the linen in his hand to protect the agricultural land? The Ministry is that and agricultural land is protected in this process. But absolutely not with compensation, for that compensation shall be paid, the land shall be laid down, and tomorrow this agricultural land shall be no more. The strategy of the previous law and this amendment is wrong or completely wrong. There was much to be heard about speculators from the Positive Slovenia Group. I would say that speculators never appear at the end of a story, but they always appear at the beginning. They occur at a time when they have information on where it will develop, where the strategic development of a particular environment or certain investment needs will take place. I've been a mayor myself for years, and I've never bought any land, even though I knew that information. Here, at first, those speculators need to be looked for, not now at the end, when these options are virtually gone. Of course, I cannot support this amendment presented by the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This third article is the heart of this law and is the essence. If the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 3 is adopted, then the law remains the same as it has been before. And I think that we could all make sure that this marriage requires an amendment. Article 3 of the amendment provides essential – it removes compensation on agricultural areas, which are of course of poor quality. For areas of better quality, however, it remains almost as high as the existing law, which I think is fine. Thus, if in the existing law we divide and multiply with what is in the existing law and with what we now have, there is a minimum difference and it is okay to force potential investors to build on agricultural surfaces of poorer quality. We need to know that it is from the memorial and will always be built in the future on agricultural surfaces, except when an old building is broken, because of course it cannot be built elsewhere. Construction, of course, depends on a lot of things. Second thing, no decree, no law and no regulation will increase self-sustainment and preserve agricultural areas. The agricultural area is still possible and, of course, the increase in self-sustainment cannot be made by decrees and regulations. Of course, agricultural areas will protect the good purchase prices of agricultural crops or, in other words, the lack of agricultural crops. Which, of course, I don't want, but then the real value of agricultural areas, the best agricultural areas, will be seen. Earlier, one of the discussers mentioned that this third article would not be able to be implemented following the dictated exercise, since of course there is no regulation that would set out what is in Article 3(3) "as a floor area the size of the building in contact with the land in accordance with the regulation" that there is no such regulation. This regulation exists, it is a policy on project documentation where it is specified that the project construction documentation must also contain the floor size of the building in contact with the land. According to this regulation and after this project documentation, compensation for the use of agricultural areas is then also charged. In the past, when we had a refund, this refund was also distributed to the local community, 30% and 70% to the country. Now, of course, there is no such diction, it remains at state level, and even with the rebalancing it has opened up, I will say, an account for these funds, which has not been a practice until now. Something else about speculators; speculators, of course, will always be. However, after this so infamous ZUJF, one trap or trap has also been set for speculators selling agricultural land. A loop or trap at that moment, which means the least they can see, is an increase in the tax rate and a reduction in their profits. This means that the person who sold this building plot within one year after the change in the destination of agricultural land has paid 25 % of the tax on the purchase and sale price. If this parcel was sold in one of three years 15% and from three to ten years 5%, this is said to be an additional tax already on the capital tax of 20%. Of course, we built mainly in the past, so I say, on agricultural land, because of course the forest should not have been affected. The forest in our country was what they were or what are sacred cows in India. I don't know why, or from any historical or other impulses, this thing, too, and this diction is changing. But there is also something to be said. When we talk about how many hectares have grown, etc., the term is cultivated, of course, but the cultivation does not have what concrete has, it is said, there can be cutting of shrubs and it can be established the previous state. Of course we need to know that. It will also be necessary to know that the system's agricultural policy has had effects in this area, particularly in this area of growth, the European agricultural policy. According to data, in Slovenia, on average, it has not grown in the last ten years. This is the SURS data and this data means surface support. It is true, however, that this European agricultural policy, which we know is the most standardised in the EU, has made another mistake, says it has been reducing support by production, by surface, and can thus be reduced and production has also been declining. One more time. This change is to some extent necessary. It is essential, and it is also essential, that it be swift in order to remedy the shortcomings that have been in this marriage. I would like to point out that, in the previous term, the Slovenian People's Party's Group has already introduced a law into a procedure that has gone this way, that it reduces about 80% of the changes that are in force in the existing law. I think I know something about the protection of agricultural land, but apparently not enough, at least that's how I listened to this debate today. Of course, I'm a farmer in a little less than 30 acres, nothing's healed. It's true that my great-grandfather was a farmer, my grandfather was a farmer, my father was a farmer, and I'm the only one who's doing some damage to this tradition from moving from agriculture to politics. But there is also something else that only my great-grandfather was fortunate enough to be a farmer in one system in one country, according to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, everyone else, of course, was farming in several countries, in several systems, in an old father in four or five, and of course it is difficult to adapt. Agriculture is about like a tanker, because you can't turn a tanker in Piran Bay, you need a long time. These changes in systems, the way of legislation has most affected the fact that we have so few agricultural land in Slovenia and that, of course, we are farmers more than despised, because we know and farmers know that. I will not support the amendment of the parliamentary group, because I think there is no change or novelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. He's got a word, mag. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u132	Hello, chairman. Once again, dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! Minister with co-workers. Greetings. I must say that the debate I am listening to today is a pleasure, for in fact, most of you who have spoken so far clearly tell me that agricultural land needs to be protected. Much has been said about the need to increase Slovenian food production and that at least at this point we are united, already for this country at the moment when the clarification of work from day to day means a lot. The fact is, we do not understand agricultural land protection the same way. This is probably because not everyone looks at agricultural land the same way. It has often been observed here today that agricultural land is viewed only as a resource for farming, but what we forget is that agricultural land is the third most important natural resource, an environmental resource that we need to protect. You probably know how normal these are. The highest natural source on which we depend – if we did not have it, we would only live for a few minutes — is, of course, air that is of sufficient quality to breathe. Another natural resource is sweet drinking water. In Slovenia, it is fortunate that we have the geographical characteristics we have, and despite all that we do not implement environmental directives or European directives in this area, we are not threatening ourselves yet, but we are threatening some formalisms that are likely to make us pay some penalties someday. Thirdly, however, agricultural land is a very important natural resource. I would like to remind you, my respectable colleagues, or suggest that you read the tape of the debate that took place in the Government's premises a few weeks ago. The Director-General of the OECD Environment Directorate was present and we talked about environmental policy. You too, Mr Minister, have been present and some high-ranking civil servants, another minister and Members, I think that only Gaspar and I were present; probably there was someone else, but I don't remember. At that time, this gentleman - I quote him because we have obviously come to the point that we do not believe in each other very much, which is not good, and one day we will have to get to the point where we will listen to each other, talk to each other, and agree together. In Slovenia we have come so far that we do not even give the Slovenian profession the opportunity to say anything in the way that it is heard. NGOs no longer have the right to speak. Often, however, we still refer to other foreign reference sources in this country. And this Mr. Director-General of the Environment Directorate said: "Natural resources, including agricultural land, are final." So we know what will happen in the current way of their exploitation – that we will lose them. And as people, as citizens of the country, as well as people living on the ground, we cannot afford it. And he also explained very simply how natural resources are protected. There are two levers. The first lever is formal, there are obstacles, there are prohibitions that are imposed through legislation. We, too, need to know this, we have a formal form of protection in Slovenia, we also had it when there was no compensation or this financial compensation, but the problem is that these formal prohibitions are often to be overcome. So, his experience has also been, which has told us that in fact formal protection of natural resources is necessary, but not sufficient. His extraction was as follows: if you want to protect the natural resource that agricultural land is, you have to set a price for it to get its value and then in the final stage, if you take advantage of the natural resource, you can calculate what kind of cost you have to pay, because if you don't pay it, someone else will. At that time he also praised our current agricultural land law, which will disappear today and become different from the model where Slovenia understood how natural resources are protected. The law that was passed last year, you know, was passed for several reasons. One of the reasons was that we found that the formal protection of agricultural land according to data on agricultural land consumption, mainly due to urbanisation, and also due to the recovery that has been found by one of the predecessors in recent years, significantly less than it has been that current protection is not working. And then we challenged ourselves, the political public in particular, to find a model that will work. We were not then, for example, some believers of some idea that it was financially different, but we were looking for a model that would work. This was not the only reason that the law was changing, the additional reason was that agricultural operations, in particular exhibitions, should be accelerated, this was the SDS proposal, here we have more or less fully summarised your amendment, which was previously prepared. One reason was also that we had prevented the transfer of agricultural land, which pointed to speculation, through gift contracts. At some point in the country, it was found that more than 80% of agricultural land transfers, without us celebrating as a generous nation, work through gift contracts. And there were other things we were doing. And at the time of the adoption of the law that was passed, I was also delighted by the very great measure of consensus. Also, for example, those who were opposed at the time made it very clear that in fact most of the law is supported and understood by them that they personally and otherwise disagree with the imposition of damages. In fact, I have to say that, in my opinion, we were working to some extent with great agreement. At the time of the adoption of the law, there was no secret that we spoke all the time about compromise. It was not such a law that would fit one, the other or the third political option or the professional public, but it was a compromise solution. One of the compromise solutions was the date from when compensations were applied, and there was much debate as to whether from then on all rights to one point of time were valid, that they should be taken into account and that they could not be included, but some other reasons were, and this border changed. She was then adopted the way she was. Although you need to know this – the law, I think, was adopted in June – the government fell in October, but if it did not fall, some adjustments would have been made under the intervention law when the rebalancing was adopted, and improvements to the agricultural land law had already been made. So all the time, there was a debate where the starting point was that the damages were valid. Another debate we are trying to close today is the mistake of Slovenian legislation that we no longer have a defined concept of construction plot. The construction plot disappeared from Slovenian legislation some ten years ago. At this point, no one can even describe why she disappeared. However, we have not been able to introduce it into Slovenia's legal space through agricultural law. The resistance of other ministries was so great that we made a shift, and in fact an approximation then is the need for a partition, which brings the landowner 200 to 400 euros. This would probably also be regulated by the introduction of the construction plot through the amendment of the second law, and the current coalition could also arrange for the construction plot to be introduced by adopting three construction laws simultaneously in the next week at an extraordinary meeting. So there was no reservation here. However, the third point, which was always questionable, was whether the financial compensation was properly calculated. In fact, the idea of financial compensation is quite simple: if you lose one hectare of agricultural land somewhere, take enough money to set it up elsewhere. Our profession does not have much experience in establishing new agricultural land. The numbers that are are are professional, but the truth is, there's not much experience. Probably some year, two or three years later, when these dedicated land of operations were tested in practice, the numbers could be the same or different. I must say that I am pleased that what was foretold to be adopted in the autumn will finally be a map of sustainable agricultural land. This law, which is still in force, also introduces it. By accepting a map of permanent agricultural land under the current law, it is more complicated because we did not want to make another mistake that we made with Natura 2000. You know, when Natura 2000 accepted what was necessary, we made too many commitments and without the other sectors including agriculture asking whether things and solutions are good or not. So the idea of the current acceptance of the agricultural land map is such that we would also ask the other professions and the local public to have the opportunity to say their words. It is likely that some faster procedure will be adopted in the autumn, but in any case, the map of sustainable agricultural land will be a step further. What I don't understand right now is what's next. In the coalition agreement – now I am sorry that Mr Tanko is not present here because we have already talked about this in public – it is very clear that the financial compensation for non-productive agricultural land is being deleted. When you ask an expert what unproductive agricultural land is, he tells you jokingly, it's a quarry. And of course it's not, because then there's no agricultural land. With this law, dear friends and friends, you have defined as unproductive agricultural land with a rating of up to 50. You know what you said? You said that half of Slovenian agricultural land where food is produced is non-productive agricultural land. This is essentially a relative, I think, new definition in the European and global space, and we will probably come up with some analies with this definition. The other thing you do is the next thing. You are maintaining a model of financial compensation, which is in principle good, and this is also probably the result of some serious debate you have had. Katarina, I'm looking at you because I know you've been very involved in this debate, and you've been helping other coalition parties to overlook it, so thank you. But what does it mean in practice? In practice, excessively reduced financial compensation is essentially a burden of the system. Why? Because the money will gather relatively little, it will still have to work, there will be costs, people will be burdened, and there will be no effect. The current system of collecting financial compensation has been quite simple. This is a system that will, say, enter into force in Germany in 2025, in Baden Wurtemberg, which is slightly more advanced, 2016, and will also start in Europe as a whole, but with some delay. The idea of this system is that if you lose a hectare – because the municipalities, the state, the infrastructure, this needs to develop, no sector, not the agricultural sector, does not have the right to be the one that has the final word no, because some interests are also important, but if it comes down to the fact that an equivalent amount of money is obtained in order to be able to follow the zero-use doctrine at the country level. So let's say a country that has only 800 and a few square meters of the best, that's an orne soil, it doesn't lose it anymore. And with the current change, where are we going? Let's say you have to lose 5 hectares or more, the numbers are very different, so you can set up a new hectare somewhere, and then it's a total and general shift away from zero consumption. I would even understand that they would say that there is distress, that all families have no opportunity to build within settlements where there is so and so the payment of zeros, but because of the rights acquired, some have acquired rights outside the settlements, and let us as a country make this thinking, and let us invest half a million or one million to save all these families. That's what I'd understand. Or, let's say, I would even understand that it would be said because it's an economic crisis, although the idea that there is no investment because there is no land is wrong, because if that were the case, then we wouldn't have so many empty open buildings in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the truth is somewhere else. Don't build it because there's no money. If we say that the main motive of foreign investors is not to come to Slovenia, that agricultural land or change of destination, we are wrong. The main motive for not coming is not that we have too much pay or that we have too high taxes because we don't have them. At the moment, we are already under the European Union's average with taxes. In fact, the main motive is that there are very few investors in Europe. And secondly, we forget that we have completely changed the education structure of Slovenia. If they were in 2000 or back, 21 years ago, foreign companies liked to come to Slovenia. What did they get? They got essentially the nation, the workers who are the polyglots. In our situation, most people understand and speak English and/or German, which is a huge advantage for foreign investors. They've got something else, they've got a technically educated nation at their disposal. We have had so many educated high school students with technical education that we have actually been a terrible plus for the European Union and investors, but now this is no longer the case. If you look today, most people go to high school and especially to social schools. The pyramid, which should be such that you have 15 technicians and one engineer, is someplace a simple pyramid to attract a foreign investor, but it is such that you have one technique and 15 engineers, preferably a social education. And we can do any kind of work, we're basically doing the conditions for a foreign labor force to work with us. So much for attracting a lot of foreign investors. I know that the opposition in this House has no possibility of any proposal being implemented. Here in front of you, I would like to thank those coalition parties who have at least accepted us for our conversation. I would like to thank Virant, i.e. the National Gazette, and I would also like to thank New Slovenia. We had a very good conversation. We have failed, despite our request, to speak with the SDS, except for discussions based on the level of Members. These are the right conversations. As long as we talked to the SLS, and I don't know, because we talked to the Members, I also occasionally communicate with the Minister, but it's not exactly a formal conversation. Personally, I think you'll make a mistake. Shame won't be the only one. If you look at how the laws are now coming, I must tell you that what the anti-corruption commission has found in its opinion a few weeks ago, that the laws in the field, they have written the environment, but the first law they have mentioned, the Law amending the agricultural land law, and then they are listed that because there are so many different financial interests in the background, because they are adopted in such a very untransparent way, they pose an excessive risk in the area of corruption. And the Commission has proposed that these procedures should be stopped and made transparent because they are too risky in the area of corruption. What is transparency? Transparency also means that the expert has the opportunity to express his opinion in a way that is also taken into account. Because it is an opportunity to give an expert opinion by sending it material and giving it three days of time to respond to some comments, or by publishing material in such a way on some websites that even the Sectional Service of the National Assembly cannot find it on those websites, as it is subsequently found that there was a failure of the electronic system. This is not a transparent adoption of laws. This is an important reason why this law, while actually undermining the agricultural land protection system, will not be supported. I wish, it is also an appeal to you, Minister, that when you change the additional marriage in autumn, you will give the Slovenian profession the opportunity this time. Nothing will be wrong if you also look at the new guidelines, including the European Commission, on how to protect agricultural land. And then we tried to find some other acceptable system of zero agricultural land use. If this system is not acceptable now, the system you are shutting down is a system based on the financing of the land that is consumed. Other systems are also possible. But the only possible person to know right now is to enter with his money the state. It doesn't bother me either, but that must be said very clearly. So, what do I expect? I expect you to follow very clearly the doctrine of zero agricultural land use. I think that even in Slovenia we will be able to establish a consensus on this. I also did not see a lot of thoughts going in the other direction from the debates of Members and Members. But not only are you going to show leverage, let's say you're going to say that in fact it's possible in a formal way to prevent the zero state of establishment. That's not working. We've had a practical experience for the last ten years that it doesn't work. We have a professional opinion that it's not going to work. And thirdly, we also have the OECD's opinion at the end of the day that it's not going to work. Let us take these institutions into account, not only when it is good for the current resolution of some current political problems, but also when it is possible for us to take our own steps, which I will not even say in good terms, that some of the underlying interests are in the background. [[...]] I believe that you are trying to do everything to essentially this economic spasm that is present in Slovenia to get rid of this spasm. Because if we don't get rid of it, then basically all the other measures don't drink water anyway. However, I conclude with this, the honourable Members and Members and the Minister with the team, however we turn, the agricultural land is a natural resource. So let us treat it as if it were a natural resource, like air or water. We know how to protect it. And agricultural land is the basic resource for food production. If we do not know how to establish a zero spending situation, it can happen that all other measures that have been well-intentioned or are being prepared or implemented in order to reduce the resources that are needed will have a significantly smaller impact than we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! There was also a coalition of problems. The amendments. The coalition is also proposing amendments to Article 3 and to other articles, including Article 6, which, of course, means that the adoption of laws that so affect life and practice in a swift manner is a matter of great difficulty under such a procedure. So first of all, because of a few young families, there may be 10, due to a few 100 young families who would like to build and cannot build, because they have to pay too much due to the change of destination, there was no need to cancel the payment of the change of destination to everyone else. Of course, we change what doesn't seem right to everyone else. Then it is an interesting fact, in fact, that we, with the amendment, which has also been adopted or proposed in the coalition, will return money to all those who have paid, not to young families, to all those who have paid a change of destination to what it says. This is a very interesting amendment. That's what we're putting into practice. And I ask the coalition, and I ask the government: Will we now change everything that has been adopted in return with all the laws that have been passed in return? The law, adopted in 2011, was legitimate and legal, and whatever it is, it will be adopted legally and legally. Some of us probably won't agree. Are we going to do this everywhere now that we're going to change everything back? This has happened to pensions, for example, if I make a comparison with just one, something else can happen. I strongly oppose that. Today it has also been said that the law does not protect agricultural land. The law protects, and that was clearly said, those who have paid too much in some opinions can, in my opinion. However, the law can also protect those who have other interests in the rear, because no opinion of the professional institutions has been taken into account, and I will not mention them because it has already been said here, all of them have said that, for example, the Faculty of Biotech, the Environmental Protection Council – now I know why we have abolished or why we have abolished the Council for Environmental Protection because it has opposed it - then Alpe Adria Green, international governmental environmental organisations, the Society for Environmental Protection, the Association of Environmental Movements, then the Institute for Sustainable Development, the invitation of the third article, the comments of the group Responsible to space, the comments of the Community of Slovenia, the call of the Agricultural Institute, the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the State Council for Agriculture and probably could also be mentioned. But something else is interesting, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe it's Phoenix in the back. Phoenix – the investment value of the project at constant prices in August 2010 is without VAT 608 million and at current prices 838 million. It is, of course, a project that will be built from European resources and is behind when we talk about speculation, I am taking risks, and I am saying that this is the kind of speculation that we can also talk about, because this is also a change of purpose. This is about making this investment in Posav, where, of course, I support it, that it is an optimal model when the state grants a private partner a building right that is already in its possession and everything else that will be done here. Of course, the current minister, Andrej Vizjak, was the biggest advocate for all of this. From this point of view, it is inappropriate to talk about speculation, since all those we have done in any congregation in any way know that there are speculations in the back of 80, 70, or 90 percent when someone buys land and does not wall itself to sell it. What's more than speculation? You can't do that without it. The problem is, if there's a corrupt act in the back, we should actually stop it. Therefore, these amendments, which are being tabled by the Social Democrats, mean: let's stop the matter and consider whether it is right to return the matter to the state of 2011, to pay back the money, to return 4 million euros to the whole of this matter when we do not find, say, some 10 or some 100,000 euros to be able to promote our country. And there's something else that saddens me, ladies and gentlemen. We're seven months this year. We're almost on vacation. When we meet again, I said that once before, it'll be autumn. And we have not yet talked about measures for economic growth, to promote the economy, we have not talked about new jobs, we have not talked about what we are going to do about it. We did not have these substantive discussions. Today we are discussing the correction of some injustice that we have done to those who would like to build and have paid too much for it. I think it would be good for the National Assembly to discuss for me in the National Assembly topics that will represent new added value, which will also mean new jobs. And don't say it's going to happen on agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I find there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting goes to the minister with the team and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! When you discuss a matter as important as the law we are talking about today, you first think about saying what we are changing in the law has been well defined so far. In any case, when I think about it, I think about the need to protect agricultural land, especially the arable agricultural land that we have in Slovenia compared to other countries of the European Union is very small or the square is devastating. A little more than 800 square meters per inhabitant. This is significantly lower than the average in the European Union. But if we look a few years ago or a decade ago, we can see that we were somewhere on the European average. When we think about how much arable land we have, it can also be linked to how much we are able to provide self-sustainment and, of course, food security for our citizens. Of course, if we have little orna soil, this means that at the same time we will not provide as many agricultural products as Slovenia needs as it needs, despite the fact that we have in Northeastern Slovenia, as we like to say in the past, also the cereals of Slovenia. However, if one begins to think further, it will come to some other conclusion, especially those who say that by securing agricultural land, as far as it was necessary to pay this compensation, we have actually prevented young Slovenian families in some way, because these contributions to average housing or to average individual building for the house were still relatively high. Of course, not only did the young Slovenian families, if they wanted to secure and resolve the housing issue, pay a high price, but they also had to think about how many entrepreneurs, our domestic and, of course, also foreign, given the need to pay these fees, were willing to invest in us. Someone said before me, yes, because there has been no investment in Slovenia in recent years. There really weren't any. The reason is the high compensation they had to make. It is worrying, however, that these funds earmarked for compensation have gone to the country's global budget. These funds were then not intended for what they were actually paid for. I also somehow understand that the previous government did not have this opportunity to bring these matters to an end, but, however, as soon as this instrument was put into effect, it would be good and right to recast the funds for the purpose for which they were actually paid. You know, with these contributions to pay the refund – but it is not the only instrument that somehow protects agricultural land, for me it is a larger instrument and the most important instrument, the municipal spatial plan. You know, if we have adopted all the municipality's spatial plans, for all 211 municipalities we have in Slovenia, we will also be able to secure agricultural land in an appropriate and appropriate manner. Unfortunately, because of the rigidity of our authorities at the state level and also the inventions of some mayors, mayors in the municipalities, we do not have these municipal spatial plans, especially because these consents that we must be, I don't know, someone told me in the past that there must be 47 – whether this is accurate at the moment, I am very difficult to speak, but I think it is around here – that we need to get them and that we need some congregations five, six and seven years of these consents. On the other hand, of course, there are these local Februaryes that literally change requirements and thus prevent them from reaching an appropriate municipal spatial plan as soon as possible. Maybe I can imagine, even in the past, I was alone when I started building the apartment house, and I know what that money meant to me was. Of course, in some ways I was also a proponent of keeping even within the law the fact that compensation must be repaid or paid, but in a substantially lower amount than it was before. EUR 12 000 500 for the average apartment house is indeed not a small amount. And another thing I'd like to mention, but it's strictly related to northeastern Slovenia, to the area from which I come. In fact, I would like to draw attention to the Ministry's representatives when they are preparing a comprehensive amendment to this law to take into account one point, however, that North-East Slovenia has agricultural land with the highest rating classes and that our people will, according to North-East Slovenia, in particular from Prlekia, Prekmur, Ormoska end, Ptujska etc., pay again a greater amount than they will pay in other parts of Slovenia. Finally, when we analyze, at what cost, then the apartments, housing facilities or other facilities in our environment are sold, we see that there are multiple differences in the damage to the areas from which I come. Given that there has been quite a lot of debate, quality debates, I would have concluded at this point and thanked you for being a word, although I have already tried twice, but because of the technique I have failed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u137	The technique obviously works and you've got the word. Thank you very much. It's mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am in favour of the amendment of the Social Democrats, which proposes the deletion of Article 3 of this Act. However, it is a risky business, namely, to discuss this law as any other law, because a person raises a logical question, why my debate would be heard and my views taken into account, when we constantly find that the professional public has been questioned, that civil society has been heard, and that the Commission's reasoned warnings to prevent corruption, which say that changes must be made in a transparent way, both in terms of inter-sectoral coordination and in terms of enabling public debate. With regard to this law, the very rich debate of former Minister Židan, and I also mention my colleague Janko Vebra, I do not rely on any suggestion that everything so far has been adopted in legislation so well that it is not possible to improve, but that, as we are making changes, we do not take into account the requirements that the duty of the State as well as the legislative body is to safeguard public interest and the management of space and the management of natural resources, which are agricultural land, is a public interest. True, we are at a time when private interest is highly appreciated when property is so much above everything, but when we speak elevated words, we like to say, we repeat that Indian river that we got land on a vessel from our grandchildren. If we ask ourselves how we deal with agricultural land and land, then we do not have to be on the roots of farmers, but you just have to look at the cultural landscape in the 18th, 19th century, where our ancestors put buildings, how they used land, never built on agricultural land. Just think about how many judgmental positions they built to protect the best positions. I'm not talking about the light pollution of the landscape, I'm not talking about what our cultural landscape has become because of screaming colors or anything else, but I find it hard to believe that the only reason to change this law is really just to care for young families. Recently, I read this information that there are 8 000 500 newly built empty apartments in Slovenia. How many young families are given in the absence of regular employment, the inability of credit to build. We put young families in what position if we think that building is the only way to solve the problem. The fact is what my colleague Lucky Meh was talking about – all other interests are hidden in the back. Here we should carefully consider whether there are other interests to come to the cheap land not for young families, but for what economic interests, and of which our community will not have much. It would be good to stop and not take it directly to the head, on the nose of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u140	Honourable Presidents, Public Secretary, Colleagues and Colleagues! There have been a lot of such and different opinions today, but I would like to point out that we have already had a 50 % compensation for changing agricultural land into a building by 2002 for the municipality, 50% of the countries. Why was this lifted at the time? Some of us remember, probably because the highways were then placed in the space, they obtained a building permit. Some congregations received quite good compensation at that time from these state facilities. Since 2002, nothing more. Let me say that at the time of the biggest construction since 2002, there was no compensation for this. In 2002-2004, most of the municipal spatial acts were adopted at the time with the greatest intervention on the best agricultural land when there was no compensation. It is likely that a number of instigators would not have taken the initiative if there had been a high compensation. Since this was not the case, it was then accepted and also built. In Slovenia we have about a million 300,000 hectares of forests. We have about 560,000 hectares of agricultural land and 55,000 hectares built. In 20 years, we lost some 200,000 hectares of agricultural land. From 2002 to 2007, when there was no replacement, 19 thousand 712 hectares of land were built, probably the vast majority of the best agricultural land, and we know what was built and, for example, by 2010, large commercial facilities with huge parking spaces on the best agricultural land. However, the vast majority of the lost agricultural land was not walled up and were lost because of the cessation of farming and the resulting growth. However, in order to prevent this, the previous government has done nothing to further develop these agricultural land, particularly in hard-to-reach areas, steep slopes. And here's the biggest problem. Of course, the easiest way to defend agricultural land is to accept some compensation with enormous compensation and thus affect those who have already bought municipally equipped buildings that are agricultural in nature and to impose additional taxes on them. The introduction of such a high remuneration does not mean protecting agricultural land, we all know that, but it means imposing a new high tax on precisely defined land. When some of you came by this law, the proposer announced that some EUR 20 million would be collected in 2011 in order to make farmland more suitable. However, four million and not 20 million were collected, but we don't know where that money went, how many cultivated lands have been trained for agriculture with this money. I don't think we have that information. I am of the opinion that we need this compensation, but let's be fair. How should we make the most of this compensation and then make it available for the right purpose? In my opinion, it is necessary to adopt municipal spatial plans in which permanent protected agricultural land should be determined in detail on the plot. In these municipal spatial plans, it is also necessary to lay down all the cultivated agricultural land on a parcel precisely to be retrained. And in my opinion, these refunds should be collected by municipalities for a specific purpose and then, through some programme, they should spend these resources on the training of already-infested agricultural land. It is probably not expected that the building land will turn back into agricultural land. Until we do, however, it is unfair, I think, to collect such high compensations from those who have bought, in good faith, already communally equipped building sites for construction and to burden them with such compensation. And this is also our intention in Article 6, that all of these differences of multiple compensations will also be returned, because I think this law is retroactive and would probably have been annulled by the Constitutional Court if someone had given it an opinion. However, credit rating classes may also need to be checked. Many were high rating classes at the expense of later agglomerations, which were not carried out and are not now agricultural land as high as the credit rating class as is considered. This basic also needs to be re-examined. However, more needs to be done in order to make those small farms, those small agricultural parcels that are difficult to process with agricultural machinery that those farmers who are still somewhat competitive with European farms now have to be able to sell their small market surpluses so that they will be able to pay solid prices for these agricultural crops. This is the best way to protect agricultural land. I am concerned about what will happen to our farmers in the new financial perspective when subsidies are different when milk quotas are abolished. I think we're going to be facing a much bigger problem than we are now. With this law, we only want to correct certain injustices. Fortunately, they are not so large yet, since little compensation has been collected. However, it is likely that these 4 million Euros have caused more damage to those who have not started construction or paid no compensation than the benefits of this collection of money.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u141	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, followed by Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! This time, I will not go to the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats. I consider and understand it as a desire to prevent another procedure, a procedure after a rapid process of amending such sensitive legislation as agricultural land. I do not understand the proposer, after all that has been said, and the Ministry of Agriculture, that a comprehensive law is being drawn up, that there is no need for partial interference in this legislation in order to prepare a comprehensive law that will finally and comprehensively address the problems of agricultural land. I believe that this law should define a cadastral of permanently protected land as well as a cadastral of walled land. I do not think that this existing law is good either, too restrictive, affecting only those areas where we want to turn agricultural land into a wall and impose large taxes and large compensations. While on the other hand, when we see that agricultural land is growing and no longer able to function for which it is intended, everything is quiet. There too, restrictive or restrictive measures should be defined and, in some way, better use of these land should be encouraged. In the end, I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture will be able to tell the financial consequences if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u143	Positive Slovenia is running out of time. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I myself have contributed my signature to the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands for two reasons, particularly in order to relieve the economy and individual investors. We want to increase Slovenia's competitiveness also by amending the law and somehow bringing Slovenia closer to being able to say that Slovenia is also an investment destination. Colleagues and colleagues, we have established something in the National Assembly over 50 groups of friendships, that is, over 50 countries, we meet with our fellow Members of the other parliaments, perhaps most of them ambassadors, and I am pleased that the debates on the economy are largely ongoing. And in this context also about the possibility of investment, about the possibility of investment by foreign investors in Slovenia. And all of us are actually pointing to this problem that we have an overly bureaucratic country. And as we are talking today about the Agricultural Lands Act, that there are too many investor benefits when it comes to changing the destination of agricultural land, I regret that we have failed to establish the provinces in Slovenia in the 2004-2008 mandate. We didn't miss much. I think that the problem of agricultural land could be significantly easier to solve if we also had this second level of local self-government established. I think that the principle of subsidiarity is still important when it comes to managing agricultural land. It is difficult from Ljubljana or from the perspective of the National Assembly to speak in general and to take solutions on agricultural land, in particular on the protection of agricultural land for all Slovenia. In fact, those who know their micro-location best have to talk about it. These must be congregations. In this direction, the debate today took place, I think, at an extremely high level. Once the congregation has adopted its spatial plan and has reached and obtained positive agreement, we have heard almost 50 consents a number of times today, then we must certainly respect the principle of subsidiarity. My reflection on today’s debate is, of course, also concerned about young families who want to solve their housing problem. My key thinking is going in the direction of rural settlement. The rural area that I am exposing here is because when we talk about rural areas, of course, we are talking about the agricultural environment. All those who come from the roots of the farms are well aware of what agricultural land means, and we certainly do not need to explain that it is a natural resource, which is limited, and how this natural resource needs to be cared for. I'm sure we know that. But I'm sure it's true, and I'm sure you all agree with me that agricultural land, like Prekmurje, cannot be processed from Ljubljana, for example, with a joystick. That's not gonna work. You can't do that and you'll never get away with it. It is therefore necessary to have people working on agricultural land. And I am very pleased to know a few examples, some projects, even in the environment from which I come, where solutions also have to, for example, revitalize swamp meadows and have the solutions to re-harvest agricultural land to the level of agricultural land on which food can be produced. And I also expect to be able to get an appointment from the Ministry or, in particular, to discuss these matters with representatives of local communities. So, it is my key personal desire, as well as the desire of colleagues and colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, to incorporate in the agricultural land law an instrument for the protection of agricultural land, but of course in such a way as to allow the settlement of rural areas, because otherwise, young people will actually leave us. But the population means, as I have already said, that we need people who will work agricultural land, otherwise they will be intended for themselves, even if we find only black land on these lands, even if they are ideal climate conditions, even if they are protected, we will not be producing food on these lands. On the other hand, we must, of course, provide investors with new jobs. This is said to be the case, we need to turn on the green light for investment to create new jobs in the countryside, not just around Ljubljana, and thus to ensure that the rural population is somehow ensured. I think that life in the countryside is an extraordinary wealth and I do not envy my fellow citizens who live in cities. Perhaps you would like to invite them sometimes to try to find a destination in the countryside. There's a real fortune in life. It is clear from the statement that we do not support the amendment of colleagues from Social Democracy, the amendment to Article 3, in New Slovenia, and we will support the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups. Since I will no longer apply for the debate, I would also like to support here and defend the solution that is going in this direction, that we will be paying the compensations that people have so far still paid for the applicable agricultural land law in order to pay these compensations. This seems to us to be a just solution, so we will also support the amendment to Article 6b. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u145	Someone else wants to discuss Article 3. If not, then I am putting to discussion Article 3a and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Article 6? It's not a big deal. Article 6a? 6.b? Yes, Mr. Robert Croat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you. 6.b Article is the last and also very important in the adoption of this law. It is the reimbursement of compensation to investors who have paid this compensation since the entry into force of the law since last September. They have the opportunity to make an application in the next 6 months, and the difference between the compensation they have paid under the old law now in force and, in the meantime, which I hope will be received today, will also return. Therefore, all investors should be local communities or municipalities, whether they are individual builders, have the opportunity under this new law, which will be adopted today, to restore the difference of compensation between this high compensation that has now been in force and that which we are introducing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 6b? If not, I'm closing the debate. The decision on the amendments will be made in the context of the vote in 30 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 5th serious meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 3:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2, this is an amendment of the Social Democrats, irrelevant. We're voting on the amendment. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, explanation of voice. On behalf of the delegation, I suppose?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support this amendment because, with the support of this amendment, the intervention of the Sport Expert Council in the appointment of members of the Sport Foundation is excluded. We are of the opinion that it is necessary to leave sport to decide who will sit at the foundation, because sportsmen and sports workers have so far proved that they deserve it and that we can trust them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u150	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on their behalf? Yes, please, Mr. Franz Puksich. On behalf of the SLS Group, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u151	We will not support this amendment in the parliamentary group because we want them to finally decide who will sit within the national sports union, not politics. It's over for politics. It's time for content.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We're voting on the amendment. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment was not accepted. We have another amendment to Article 1, which is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. Since the second reading of the amendment has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. The Social Democrats will not support the proposed amendment to the law. The reasons for this are very clear. It's a matter of deciding the means of a sports foundation. The proposed amendment will not increase and the way in which funds are allocated will change. Through a double filter, the distribution of funds will be influenced by the government. This is a very supportive sport, it is the withdrawal of civil society decision-making from basic sport-related issues. On such a proposal, we cannot allow the Social Democrats to land. In addition, this amendment introduces a different system of decision-making and competence in two foundations, FIHO and FCHO, although both foundations are fed from the same resources. Such a distinction is unacceptable. In addition, the amendment did not take into account the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service and there are also solutions in the law that are not legally correct and are also constitutionally controversial. We can't support such a marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u154	We will vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 37. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2012. Amendments to Article 3 first. We have an amendment from the Social Democrats' Group to Article 3. If this amendment is adopted, the second amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups will be irrelevant to the same article. We will decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 47. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 2, paragraph 3, which is the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3a. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6a. We're voting. There are 85 present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6b. We're voting. There are 85 present, 48 votes against 6. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 3, 3a, 6, 6a and 6b of the amended draft law. I ask qualified candidates whether someone wants to make an investment or whether someone will announce an amendment to an open article? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I also inform you that the Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you, President. The Group of Social Democrats will vote against it. We regret that you are not paying attention to the opinion recommended by the Anti-Corruption Commission that there is a greater risk of corruption in the adoption of this law. We're sorry that you don't understand the modern way of protecting natural resources. We regret that you do not understand that agricultural policy cannot be managed if absolute resource protection is not provided in a country where this resource is lacking. And we generally regret that the opinion of the profession, the opinion of NGOs and the opinion of the opposition mean less than nothing to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u156	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Zveglic will explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the amendment of the law. We will support it because the amendment of the law preserves the Institute of Compensation for Changing the Purpose of Agricultural Lands and, on the other hand, enables investors and young families as well as other investors to build. I would also say that no law alone can protect agricultural land; we need people in particular to protect agricultural land, especially those who work on agricultural land of course. Agricultural land will be most protected by the high buying-in prices of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 87 present, in favour of 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will vote on the conclusions that the next meeting will hold a debate on the answer to the question. First of all: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mrs Tamara Vont's question on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case and others against Slovenia." We're voting. At 86, 37 votes to 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next, "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jank Weber's question on protection of workers in businesses in difficulty and measures to revive the economy". Before voting, explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a debate on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša. I must admit that I was pleasantly surprised at the reply because the President of the Government, for the first time, also publicly admitted that the previous government had been in charge of preserving jobs and that, therefore, some could even wait at home for the time when the contract for production at a particular company came and could therefore immediately take up their job and perform the very important task they expect from the company to meet the expectations of the contracting authorities. Of course, he did not have to do that today. We find that many companies are falling apart because the government is not reacting. In fact, one of the concrete cases that I mentioned in the parliamentary question was the construction company Primorje, not only did the construction sector fail, but the other sectors are failing, and the government is actually following this. People are in a difficult situation, a very difficult situation in many families, because they live in uncertainty as to whether or not they will be paid tomorrow and when they will be. In short, the existence of many families is threatened. And that is why we would like to exchange arguments and views with the President of the Government, including the others who will participate in this debate, if we support the proposal for a debate, whether it is really more appropriate to leave the attention of our economic society in difficulty and to put many jobs at risk. In the answer given by the President of the Government, of course, he obviously did not touch enough on the facts raised in my question and related to investments in infrastructure, as they stand still. We can understand that the Government has decided to sign an agreement on the priority construction of the section from Kopra to Trieste and is much less interested in the Koper-Divič section, which is also key to our Slovenian railways. And if we know that 8 thousand people are employed there or something less, but if we know that Luke Koper is also at risk, the question that Minister Cernač then answered is, in some way, an additional or complementary argument, that we will also discuss this important infrastructure project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you. We will vote on the proposal for a decision. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] The decision was not adopted. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš in relation to the consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act in the field of social and pension protection. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. My question to the Prime Minister was about pensions. The Act on the Balance of Public Finances caused the pensioners to be wronged because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already deprived them of their rights, based on laws and specific rules. Yesterday, I did not receive an answer from the President of the Government to the key question, which is the positive impact of the law on people, nor why disproportionate cuts were needed in pensions. Let me remind you, some pensioners are also down to 25%, which means a quarter of their income and that these disproportionate status cuts are also caused by new divisions. To open up a number of constitutional issues, constitutional lawyers are also cautioned today. She also warns the Ombudsman, who, as I have seen in the media yesterday, has had more than 50 complaints and requests for constitutional review. Pension organisations have announced mass lawsuits, a constitutional judgment announced by the Ombudsman, and announced by the unions. Yesterday in Positive Slovenia, in cooperation with the SD, we tabled a whole amendment to the law that corrects injustices. As could be seen in the media, this action of the opposition is supported by even the President of DeSUS. Allow me, too, Minister Šuštersič, the Minister of Finance notes that corrections are likely to be needed regarding pensions in the savings law. In view of all the above, I believe that you have monitored enough calls in recent days to address the irregularities committed in the area of pensions under the Public Finance Balance Act. What we can all do together at this time is to support the proposal for a broader debate on the Government's response to the debate on both the opposition's proposed proposal and the possible plan of the government coalition, which has already announced any amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act on pensions. As we say, in Positive Slovenia we will absolutely support the proposal for a broader debate. I hope and expect that this proposal will also be supported by you and indeed allow a broader debate to take place and, finally, in this House, we will find a common way to remedy the injustices that have been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u162	We will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Joyful Žereva on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we will vote in favour because we do not care what happens to our state property and how it is available to it. Above all, whether he is truly at his disposal is governed, or whatever you want, legally. On Monday, the Minister read to me the provision of the law and I will quote it once again: "The Agency," we all know that it is the Agency for Capital Investment Management, "implementing voting rights in the boards of companies for which it is empowered, after which or another law, to carry out meetings of one-person companies and appoint members of the supervisory authorities of companies after prior agreement of the Government", not according to instructions, decree and so on. For at least two cases of appointment of supervisory boards, there have been cases in public that ministers or, in particular, one minister simply sent an e-mail with instructions to be appointed to the Supervisory Board. I think it's clear to us all who are sitting here that this is against this law. And I ask all those who do not care how our property is managed, to discuss here what needs to be changed and how our assets should be managed. I don't know if we have to lose words at all. I'm really asking all those who don't care what happens to our assets to support us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u164	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 46. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to the question of mags. Majde Potrat in relation to deleted and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights". Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you. The proposed debate could be held at the first regular session of the autumn when the judgment of the European Court of Justice is already being translated, when passions calm down and when some may also consider whether their statements were appropriate, the first reactions to the judgment of the European Court of Justice. It is also possible to read in the media that the State Defence Office has a special fund from which it pays compensation, and this will not be the first or last European Court of Human Rights to be awarded from this fund. I believe that this is a good time to start a debate to consider the position that, by June of the following year, the State of Slovenia is obliged to draw up a scheme by which it will enforce the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, calmly, without haste, to be considered, it will also be possible to introduce further changes subsequently, to include all stakeholders, not only the State Defence, and I think that this would be useful for the state of Slovenia after all that has happened to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 36, for 46. [[It's 36 votes.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision, "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonet Černač, to the question of the Member State of Renata Brunskole, concerning the construction of the third development axis". Voice explanation, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The consistent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia was one of the pre-election promises of both this coalition and the opposition. And in the context of coherent regional development, the quality of transport links in the Republic of Slovenia certainly means a great deal. The third development axis, the third A and the fourth development axis were those priorities and are, on a number of occasions, and for this reason, I propose that a general discussion be held at the next meeting on the development axes, with particular emphasis on the third development axis from the borders of the Republic of Austria, from Korea through the New City to the White Region and on the border with Croatia, particularly in relation to the Pan-European Corridor. In fact, 10 days ago, the Republic of Croatia also opened a link 9 kilometres from the border with the Republic of Slovenia to the Zagreb-Reka motorway network, which means that only the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is clearly lagging behind in this direction. This is particularly sad because much has been done in this direction in the previous mandate, and if everything was as it should have been, state spatial plans should have been adopted both for the southern part and for the northern part at that time. The issues are being drawn up, the funds are being reduced in the budget balance and it is sad that some people are somehow extremely quickly forgetting what was being said and what was the priority, especially because we have also supported the development of the highway network in Pomourje, a demographically threatened area, and also the development of the economy. I am sure that this would also mean the same for the region of Koroška and the White Region, if there was also a development axis project here, especially in order to provide jobs mainly in the construction industry. Therefore, I propose that a general discussion be held at the next meeting. But if this is not the case, because there is a potential possibility, we will be able to say publicly that some are really saying something, doing something else. Therefore, the priority of the development axes, as has already been the case in the mandate of the previous government, would be right to be now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u168	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 Members and Members present, 35 to 47. [[It's a 35-year-old vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Magi. Mr Radovan Žerjava, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, asked the question of mag. Stanka Stepišnik in relation to measures for economic growth". Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u169	My question was when will this economic growth begin to rise. The fundamental objective of the Coalition Treaty, the National Reform Programme, the Stability Pact, the Euro Pact, the Growth and Employment Pact, the Positive Slovenia Programme and all important strategic development projects of the Republic of Slovenia is growth or economic growth. The signs indicate that this will not happen by the end of the year. Exports – for May is information that the decline, which was our main guide, is at least as a plan for the previous year and in the first quarter to draw forward and that private and state consumption will fall, but this has not happened. Exports of high-tech products in Austria, say 11.3% in Slovenia, are barely 4.5%. Failure to invest in development and research will make this percentage worse. The added value in Slovenia is twice lower than in Austria and was minus 0.2% in the first quarter. Investments amounted to minus 10.5% compared to 2011 and the trend shows no signs of recovery. The credit crunch, which has lasted for two years, has continued and is a cause of extreme concern for economic growth. Europe is putting all its hopes in order to boost this economic growth. With us, however, there is almost one topic where everyone would focus on economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u170	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 present. 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] The decision was not adopted. The following proposal for a decision, "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Aleš Hojs to the question of mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš in connection with the reorganisation of regional information centres". Voice explanation, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much, President, once again for your word. This time, too, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the proposal for a broader debate on the response of the Minister of Defence to the question of the question of the envisaged reorganisation of the information centres. In my question to the Minister on a very specific case, I showed that the negative effects of this partial reorganisation are evident from the first days of the first event since 1. Seven. 2012 onwards. As could be seen from the response, some centres will indeed be definitively eliminated. Let's say it was one time, it was one time. Seven. 2012, cancelled night work in six exhibitions. Here I appeal mainly to those Members and Members who come from those areas or regions where they abolish the regional information centres. Let me mention, regional information centres, this is the emergency first aid on number 112, terminate in Slovenj Gradc, Murski Sobota, Postoj, Ptuj, Trbovja and New Town – 6 regional centres. They oppose this and seriously point to the dangerous consequences of the operators themselves, employees of regional information centres, as well as workers in emergency medical care, say, health personnel, firefighters, police officers. This is also opposed by local authorities. Therefore, I ask you to support the proposal of the conclusion that before we really experience the worst with the envisaged reorganisation, we are all trying to reconsider once again whether it makes sense to put into some unfinished political position, and on the other hand we have the lives of people who have, I believe, still the price that no savings figure can define.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh, would you like to explain your voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u173	We're in an extremely interesting position to close down six centers. When they close the last one, there will be no one to raise their voice in defense. It would therefore be right to discuss in-depth analysis of what would really happen to human health, because then they are really precious not only minutes, even seconds. And the debate costs us nothing. This is a debate in which we will put forward arguments for important things. They're all important. None of them matter. There's no one among us who would just joke here at the National Assembly. So I say again, let's open the debate, open the arguments, and seriously consider whether what was done is the wisest or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The abolition of the Regional Information Centre in Novi Mesto practically all of those listed by colleague Žgajner Tavš also represents the largest and important economic centre of South-East Slovenia for 19 municipalities, so to speak, a collapse. It is also interesting that the apparently Ministry of Defence and the Administration of Protection and Rescue have not considered all the circumstances well, as the State Security Plan or the State Plan on the possible accident at the Krška Nuclear Power Plant states: "In the event of this accident, the regional communication centre Brežica is being set up to conduct its works as a regional centre in New Town." What happens now? The Regional Centre in New Town will be shut down, God forbid, but if there was an accident at the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, even the coastline would not work, so the entire South East Slovenia area, including Posav and Zasavje, would all be without this centre. So, the whole burden would be in Ljubljana. Clearly, this decision by the competent ministry and government is in the wrong direction. Therefore, I would also like to have a general debate on this and that the competent Ministry of Defence will reconsider, and I am confident that we will vote in favour of this debate in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mrs. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u177	Please, before you press "against", think of someone on the other side of the center who is in your family. We need centers, human life and everything that's connected to it is most important. Please reconsider before pressing the "against" button.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you. And Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you. I very much support Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš's proposal for a broader debate on the reorganisation of regional centres. The regional centre of Koroška, i.e. in Slovenj Gradc, is also being abolished, although we know that Koroška is a remote country, somewhere on the edge, where it borders Austria. It also borders on Golica's dam, which is a fairly large accumulation lake, which has a dam that borders our Bistrica Valley and the entire security-intelligence system is connected to the center in Slovenj Gradc. And there's a lot of other things that have to do with a lot of basic accidents that cover this center. Thus, any reorganisation and transfer of all these works that are now being carried out in the center of Slovenj Gradc would be highly questionable or unacceptable for Korošice and Korošci from a security point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you. We are now voting on the proposal. Mr. Jerko Chehovin - or so he would do. Since you're reporting individually, I'd like to open an application to explain to the voice that it's not dripping like that. Please sign up if you want to explain your voice in your own name. And this is Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you. I would also like to ask you to take a preliminary decision in the vote to think carefully about how we will empty the regions. Finally, some of these have lost police administrations, are losing these centres now, we have lost some courts and so on, and the same people who are likely to vote in favour today are talking about the need for regional representation of Slovenia to be as balanced as possible. In Postojna, I must say, I really don't understand this, because only those who have proposed this proposal are the biggest forest fires. It is almost a week when the military would not have an incident situation on the Poček range, where at least two, three fire companies from around Postojna and Postojna themselves must intervene on the site. Not to mention traffic hazard or frequency, because it is a highway crossing, railways, important vehicles and so on. And in fact, I don't think the cost of losing lives, or the cost of material damage, is going to take away what we think we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you. We will now vote on the proposal for a decision. So that there will be no mistake, given the explanations of the vote, it might be understood differently, we are not voting now on whether the regional information centres will be abolished, but we are voting on whether we will hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the response of Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of Defence, to the question of mags. Barbara Squire Tavsh. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plitčanič, to Mrs Maša Kociper's question on respect for the resolution on normative activities. Voice explanation, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u183	Dear Members and Members! On Monday, in the late evenings, I drew attention to the non-compliance with this resolution. I'm sure you all know that in 2009, a resolution on normative activities was adopted in the National Assembly, it received broad support among Members, supported by 82 of the 82 Members present, including a number of Members representing the current coalition. The purpose of this resolution on normative activities is clear on how to adopt better and more effective regulations and other laws, especially how to ensure that the professional public, the target public and those implementing the rules have the opportunity to influence their preparation. The resolution therefore also sets out some minimum standards, some minimum deadlines to be taken into account in public attendance. Thus, the public should have at least 30 days to submit its proposals with regard to the preparation of new legislation or other regulations. This provision was also upgraded by the Government in its 2010 Rules of Procedure. Well, in March this year, the NGO centre highlighted a special monitoring counter for this resolution and its results are catastrophic. In as many as 84% of the Ministry's cases do not take this resolution into account, and they also violate the Government's rules of procedure, some ministries never take this resolution into account, and not a single ministry in at least 50 cases. As a result, there is a worrying small proportion of public participation in the drafting of legislation, and thus the level of public involvement continues to decline and, I am sure, also the quality of regulations. In this regard, I would also point out to the members of the coalition the definition of their own coalition contract, which stated: "We will upgrade the standards of consultation of the interested public when preparing and adopting regulations and thus reduce democratic deficits and raise the quality of regulations". However, in recent days, as you know, violations of the resolution and other documents by the Government have also been pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Commission, since it considers that the Government has allowed obvious interventions in the areas of protection of the public interest, democracy and the protection of the rule of law when it has sent a number of proposals for legislation to be adopted in the National Assembly by emergency procedure, without taking into account the environmental conventions, the said resolution and the Government's rules of procedure. I therefore suggest that, honourable Members, given that this is a very important issue and our own area of work, that we take time to discuss at least once as the National Assembly what we can do to adopt better and better rules and that we can involve the public in their preparation, what the public wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u184	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Magi. Mr Radovan Žerjava, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, at Mr Gaspar Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on the strategy for the development and marketing of Slovenian tourism. Explanation of vote, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u185	President, thank you very much. Members and Members have the opportunity to support a broader debate on the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism, which is prepared at the Directorate for Tourism at the Ministry of the Economy. This is an important strategy because we know that tourism is the most growing economic sector in the world and that in Slovenia, given its geostrategic situation, we are underexploiting resources that are actually as natural as those that represent our cultural heritage. Our season does not last 365 days a year, but we have all the predispositions to achieve this. In the past, there has been a great shortage of understanding and no need for cross-cutting cooperation. The tourism development strategy is not intended for itself, and is intended to take its guidelines and objectives into account when adopting both new laws and those that are changing. Unless the actual guidelines and strategies are taken into account when the new legislation is adopted, everything is free of charge, we will actually waste another period, 2012-2016, and nothing will happen. Nothing like this has happened in the past. In Slovenia, tourism could take place 365 days a year, could actually extend the tourist season in Istria, in Kras, even in autumn and winter, if the laws encourage investment in tourist infrastructure and allow it to do so. It is therefore essential that all ministers be involved. We could actually have a broader debate here, that ministers also understand that Slovenia is too rich, has a lot to offer, and that tourism is the strongest economic sector that can save Slovenia during this crisis period. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of a public, broader debate, in this Parliament, to help both Minister Žerjav and all those who think in the Tourism Directorate in a positive direction and not in the way that has happened in the past. I want Slovenia to take it far, because how we behave to politicians is also very important, what kind of signal we send to the public, what kind of signal we send across the border, how we act and how we are ready for politicians to accept those who love tourism and who like to visit Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u186	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly held a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on the management of multi-residential facilities. Voice explanation, Mrs. Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Honorable National Assembly! Managing multi-housing buildings right now is probably not a top theme, number one, but I don't believe we're all lucky to be living in one-bedroom buildings. As far as you have it, it's great, but it's probably your kids, your parents, or your relatives don't have it. This topic is really huge and it concerns the whole of Slovenia. Managers unduly raise management costs for which they offer nothing. They don't perform checks. By means of the funds obtained from this Title, they shall credit other facilities, the tenders shall not be transparent. In addition, the law needs to be reexamined or reviewed because there are a lot of unconscionable things. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u188	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The following proposal for a decision, "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, to Mrs Renata Brunskole's question on preventing the effects of certain economic activities on the environment". Mrs. Renata Brunskole, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I propose a public debate on how the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will prevent the negative effects on the long-term protection of the environment arising from economic activities such as biogas. As an example, there is a biogas plant in Montenegro where they drive waste from households and catering facilities from almost all of Slovenia. On 14 June 2012, the Veterinary Board of the Republic of Slovenia found that 4 thousand tonnes of this manure was in a biogas plant infected with salmonella. The question arises where from this biogas plant with this manure, where to destroy it and so on. This is an extremely important environmental issue, which I believe is even more in the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, there are also environmental issues caused by the smell of pig farming, which is also happening in this environment. In short, I propose that a general debate be held and that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, on the other hand, propose a discussion, a broader discussion on potentially environmentally risky economic activities or identifying them, since citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia may also have more concerns than they actually are. In order to create new jobs, it is also necessary to raise awareness and help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we will support the proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. And also the last 13th such proposal, "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Working Žerjava on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, especially the coalitions, you have the opportunity to correct your previous mistake and press "for" to hold a public debate on increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This is the only bright star you have foreseen to increase such a modest or less reduced gross domestic product this year. If we look at it, we see that foreign direct investment in us is at a symbolic level this year. In comparable countries, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, which are on the tail of the scale, foreign direct investment represents about 40% of the gross domestic product, we achieved only 20% of the gross domestic product of foreign direct investment in 2011. Almost nothing this summer. We're losing the battle on international competitiveness. We're almost falling down on all the scales. We have unsuccessfully attracted foreign capital, the unit costs of the product are rising and are already more than 5% higher than the EU average. Over-complicated legislation and administration continue to fear the establishment of new businesses. The rigidity of the labour market is said to make us flexible, flexible, still as it was. High taxes, although we have reduced them slightly, an unfriendly environment and non-profit activity mean a decline in the competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy. Please, especially Members and Members, respected and appreciated, this is in all of your core programmes, you have set this as a goal, but you may only correct your previous mistake when you voted not to hold a public debate to increase economic growth in Slovenia, and to hold a public debate on how to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, as this also increases the competitiveness of the Slovenian country. I'm afraid if you press "no," we're going to get into a big illiquid situation and we're going to be asking very hard for money in September and October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u192	We vote on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Lucky Meh's explanation for the voice. And Mr. Franz Puksich. Please, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u193	The topic raised by Mr Stepišnik is the topic that I think is most important at the moment. And if now we, honourable Members and Members, ask what we can contribute to what we can do for a better economic situation, for opening new jobs, for the competitiveness of the economy, then open a debate that can show what we are thinking from our own environments, from where we come. We'll talk about problems, we'll talk about problems, and we have some solutions. I therefore propose that we support this proposal and open this debate. I don't know why you're so afraid of the debates that are essentially clearing up. And we're the National Assembly, because we're not, so thank you very much, I'm not gonna tell you what we are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u194	I'd like to know. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. For all the explanations, one could actually give about the same as I will now do with this explanation. I agree with some colleagues that we are a national assembly and, of course, a debate should be held here. Dear colleagues, we're not afraid. We will not support this debate in the Slovenian People's Party. For one simple reason, because we have decided to make the conditions for economic development real in this mandate. However, if we want to do this, there is too little debate and empty straw beating, because now is the time to harvest and it is time to beat wheat, so, of course, the coalition and you, colleagues and colleagues, will also be invited after July 15th, when parliamentary holidays begin, here in the Chamber will contribute to positive legislation. We will deal with more than 15 laws, to which the opposition has rightly opposed, in order to deal with them in an urgent and shortened manner. It's imperative that we deal with them. And with this treatment, with this change of legislation, of course, there is some light at the end of the tunnel that will turn the trend in a positive direction. Meetings of the National Assembly will take place from 15th and, as I understand it, from 23rd, we will contribute in short 14 days of work, instead of weeks or instead of two hours of chat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you. There will still be explanations for the vote, so I will open the application or first ask if anyone else wants to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? If not, it's individual. I'm opening the application. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u197	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Based on my words and words, I really care about our Slovenia. And I regret to find that the functioning of this coalition, the functioning of this government is not directed towards development, but rather the other way around. That's what you showed, and you say it from day to day. You don't want to discuss such an important issue, you don't want to discuss anything. However, the results are visible — negative. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Prove yourself more capable, prove otherwise. Do not prove the opposite from day to day. That is why I will support the debate in this House to discuss such a pressing issue, because Slovenia is not only yours. Slovenia is of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u198	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u199	I will support the general debate. I appreciate that the Ministry of the Economy certainly needs this kind of debate, because at this point, unfortunately, we can find that there are no results in the field of the economy. It is true that it is easier for some who were formerly in opposition to remember in the previous term they have been very keenly warned and had many proposals in the field of the economy, but now I see that it is somehow in the style of "it was all quiet". So I absolutely propose a general debate. I think he'll be a magician too. Zerjavu, Minister of Economy, is much easier if he can hear proposals from the opposition as well. I'm sure he's willing to listen, and then it'll be easier to realize and prove something. Demographically endangered areas also have programmes. Those who come from Pomurje know what helping individual areas means. Some who come from other areas know what help means, but it is still needed to a greater extent. And I'm sure it's Mag's proposal. The stepfather's appeal to foreign investors is certainly outstanding on the spot to hold a general discussion. At a certain point after five months, unfortunately, we can't say, "wheat is now desired," as one of our colleagues said, "and is reaping in these days." However, this moment of harvesting in the field of the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, unfortunately, is not yet felt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u200	Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u201	Mr Puksic, if the debate on competitiveness is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u202	Excuse me, you can only explain your voice, it's not a replica or a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u203	It is not a replica, I agree, but it has been said about the beating of empty straw and this is what Mr Pukšič spoke about. And I will start again, Mr Pukšič, if the debate on the competitiveness of our economy for you is a beating of empty straw, nice. The minister said twice at two sessions about two things that he did not know what the government had accepted. So it would be more important to talk about what we can do to increase the competitiveness of our economy. I believe that's what we all agree on. I hope that the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party as well. But if this beating is empty straw for you, I really don't know how we can help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u204	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u205	I absolutely support the proposal for a public debate on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I don't know how many of you have ever worked in the economy, but the start and end is the economy, is economic growth and is its competitiveness. All developed European countries are aware of that. But we talk so many times about marginal things, about those that don't contribute anything to repairing our economy. And if we want a public debate on this, it is nothing more than offering a hand to the ministry and to all those who are the first to be responsible and responsible for the development of the economy in our country and for creating conditions for the economy. And with good intentions and good intentions, we want a public debate to be held and our ideas that we have, that are productive, that are constructive and that helps to somehow drive the train forward. It is quite clear that if the economy does not move, since so far the government has not had any very visible interventions to the economy, to the growth of the economy, there have been interventions in the area of savings and all other things. There's nothing wrong with the economy so far. It is promised that the proposed laws, 6, 10 laws on economic development, will be proposed, but public debate on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy would nevertheless be intermediate. And whoever wants the good of this country will probably vote in favour of the widespread debate on the Slovenian competitiveness of the economy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u206	Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u207	Your Honor! Of course, I will support the debate on the competitiveness of the economy, because I think it is absolutely necessary. However, Mr President, I ask you the following questions, we have received a programme for the meeting of the National Assembly, we have been announced on 15 July that parliamentary holidays will begin, and now a colleague is predicting a new timetable there. You are obliged to tell us when and how many days we will work. It's not a problem that we're gonna have to work, but I want to know when. Are we going to be on standby or are we going to be waiting for the intelligence centers to let us know? It is your duty to inform us of the schedule of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u208	Mr Brulc, for the first time, this was not an explanation for the vote, you must admit, and for the second time, on the scheduled schedule of the extraordinary meeting, which is also due to the fact that your Group of Members has tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting on the subject of amending the Public Finance Balance Act, I have told all the leaders of the groups of Members at the College. So this is more a matter of internal communication, Mr Brulc, please. We will now vote on the proposal for this Decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It was 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation for the management of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the amended draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that there would be any non-compliance in the proposal, so we can vote. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 81 votes against no one. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment to a black, shortened procedure. My procedural proposal would be that we decide on this law at the next meeting of the National Assembly, which is an extraordinary meeting. I'll explain why. In fact, we had a referendum on this law, on 12 June 2011, the National Assembly took note of a decision declaring the decision taken at the legislative referendum. On the basis of Article 90 of the Constitution, the majority of voters who voted in force were against the enactment of the law and the National Assembly was bound by the outcome of the referendum and, in accordance with Article 25 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, a year after the declaration of the decision taken at the referendum, cannot adopt a law that is substantively contrary to the decision of the electorate. The views on whether this law opposes a referendum decision or not are divided, but to avoid any dilemmas, and since we do not lose anything in this regard, I propose that we vote on this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u209	Dear President! We've known about this regular meeting on a calendar for months, not days, not weeks. Months. The prognosis for this law was at the College. The law is not proposed by a parliamentary group, where one would somehow allow that perhaps because of lack of experience, ignorance, ignorance they would not know. Law enforcement put it through. We all knew what would happen when that day came. But you say yourself that you had a shared opinion because you had, after all, advocates on one side and on the other, those who said that this was not the case. So now I'm wondering [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u210	Procedural proposal, if you can ask or procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u211	I will design, President, if you will wait, because I have to explain my procedural proposal so that you will understand that there will be no misunderstanding. [[...]] It's about how many more things there are that we actually simply find that they don't fit. So I ask you, of course, to find out your mistake, because otherwise we will simply not be able to determine who is to blame. Because we must once sanction certain things that are happening in the National Assembly, but not to refer to different, shared opinions. Because if we call each other that way, we'll be divided all the time. That's what we are. That's why my procedural proposal is to find out that you've made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u212	See if this meeting of the National Assembly would last until Friday, as usual, for a week and totally possible, this deadline would expire on Friday and the bill could also be voted on. However, I would suggest that we postpone the vote and thus lose nothing and no harm will come, and there is no problem at all. My procedural proposal has been adopted, so we will continue to vote on this. I'm making a motion for a vote. There are 83 Members and Members, 53, 26. [[53 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for a postponement has been adopted. We will therefore decide on the bill at one of the next meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for financing companies' investments, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended law have not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The legislative and legal service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members, 77, against none. [[It's 77 votes.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments or amendments to the amended law were adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 77, for 1. [[It's 77 votes.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 83 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda – the first item is the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act is suitable for further consideration". Let's get to the vote first. Who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group? I'd like you to sign up! Would I ask you whether it is acceptable for me to explain from this place or not? Good. If you don't. As soon as anyone gets in the way, then I'll leave the lead to my colleague Romani Tomc for a minute or two to explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u213	Here you are, on behalf of the delegation, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u214	The Group of the National Gazette shares its views on this law. I will not vote unitedly, but most Members and Members will support the bill because we think that the proposal is a good one and it does not matter, of course, who the proposer is and that there is not enough reason to reject the bill, that the government will prepare systemic solutions later. We think that the proposal is okay and that sometimes the opposition's proposal needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u215	Mr Peter Wilfan also, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u216	As of course, in the Group of Positive Slovenia, as well as I will clearly support or vote in favour of this proposal for the law going forward. Yesterday's debate, including the current debate by the President of the National Assembly, has in fact only reinforced me in this opinion that this proposal is suitable for good. We get the feeling that there is no doubt about whether or not we need it in Slovenia. In fact, there were only two dilemmas or one, or to support this law that we have passed, immediately or to wait for the system law that the Government is preparing and is expected to submit in the fall. As far as this system law of the Government is concerned, we had a discussion with representatives of the government, the ministry a few months ago, and they also told us that this system law would be put into the procedure in May and that we would be discussing it at this July session. As we see, this did not happen, and also yesterday's debate by the Secretary of State, in which he stressed in particular that the Government must agree and discuss with the unions that these coordinations are difficult and uncertain, raises doubts in my mind that this law will come into procedure this autumn. The second argument is that the adoption of this proposal would result in high costs, further education and then the preparation of computer applications and new forms. As far as computer applications and forms are concerned, I think the Ministry certainly has employees of high enough professional and other colleagues who will easily upgrade this computer system and prepare these forms. So I don't see any special costs here. As far as education is concerned, the Ministry can first conduct education for these two new powers, and then, I suppose, for the other eight, if this system law does indeed have these ten new police powers. Speaking of which, I'd like to highlight something else. This law is completely apolitical, and there is nothing political about it. There are no lions, no right-wing fans, no left-wings, no right-wing hooligans, only those that need to be removed or eliminated from our sports venues. There's something else I'd like to say. I've been feeling good all the time today. The feeling that today by confirming this proposal we can do something good for us, something good for this Parliament, and especially for Slovenian sports and Slovenian sports lovers, so that they can go back to sports venues peacefully, relaxed, without fear and enjoy sports performances. Finally, something else related to yesterday's debate. With this, I would like to confirm that in Positive Slovenia we do what we say or stick to the principle, the promise of doing debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u217	Explanations to the vote on its own behalf [[...]] [[Applause]] Okay, some holiday reading for my colleague Jerovska. I hope there's a copy for the President of the National Assembly as well. [[Laugh]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! When we discussed this bill in the parliamentary group, we agreed it was good. When we talked to the government about this law, the government said that it was preparing a systemic solution, and we agreed that it was good if it prepared a systemic solution. And given that she promised that this systemic solution would be in early autumn, we said that we would not prejudge anything if we waited for a systemic solution. Many times in previous mandates, when I was in opposition and the opposition also proposed a change of law, a segmental one, and then the government said it would prepare a systemic one, the government coalition mainly supported and adhered to what they agreed with the government. I will therefore vote against this today, in line with the announcement of our parliamentary group and with the announcement of our government that it will prepare a systemic solution. This does not mean that I am against this good part of the law, but it will be realized in a systemic solution. However, by this divided part of the coalition's vote, we prove that we are also voting in the coalition on our conscience. Which means that any Member or any Member Group at any time, if any part of the coalition proposal disagrees, has a free way in such a vote. However, I think it is good to stick to some arrangements, so I will stick to this agreement and vote against the bill again – not because it is bad, but because of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u219	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 41. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Home Affairs as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall give its consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures of 30. 5. 2012." We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation in education between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, which was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments cannot be tabled at the meeting of the assembly, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, no amendments can be proposed, no amendments can be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly and no amendments can be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The proposal was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the National Assembly. No amendments have been adopted at the home labour body, and amendments cannot be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly and we will vote on the bill. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is attesting to the official clearance of the law on the protection of the right to be tried without undue delay. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement shall be confirmed without undue delay." We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that the National Assembly has officially cleared the text of the law, and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First, the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The draft decision was tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u220	Thank you very much, President. Usually, such things, at least in the past twenty - twenty years, have never been discussed or explained by any change. However, I must say that we were, because this is a repeat proposal, incredibly surprised that in fact the coalition has in some way used the instrument of disciplining the opposition. It is a commission where the opposition actually has a majority, its President, and it is nothing more than that we are actually changing our Member of Parliament in fact. And by non-voice and non-conclusion, of course, we understand only one thing that is really an unusual way of doing things, because I can't imagine what would happen otherwise if we used this practice as a constant. That is why I appeal, truly, to all things, that you, of course, support this proposal and, of course, enable normal work within this Commission, because, otherwise, we will understand this completely differently, as I have described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u221	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge a member of Mr Roman Jakič in the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and to appoint a member as a member of the Committee for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, this decision will be adopted if it is voted on by the majority of all members of the National Assembly, i.e. at least 46. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 78 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted because an absolute majority has not been reached. Next proposal Procedural? [[...]] Will it really be procedural, Mr. Meh?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u222	I propose that we open a debate at one of the following meetings on the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, because there is a serious doubt as to whether the Commission can carry out its work under the rules of procedure. This is what I announced on the committee today, and this is my procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u223	Look, if you have a proposal for a item on the agenda of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you to file it in accordance with your business practice. Actually, I can't really help myself with this procedural proposal today. We will also consider the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion, so I am making a proposal for a decision. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. Milan Stanka with the function of member of the Supervisory Board Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 81 Members and Members are present. It's 77 votes against 2. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Furthermore, the proposal for a decision appointing a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. The proposal was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for its consideration. There are no applicants for the debate, so I will put to the vote a proposal for a decision which, as a representative of the National Assembly to the Public Sector Wage System Council, appoints him as a member of the Magi. Ivan Vogrin. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 75 votes against 2. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly and see you next week at an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday.
