ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-13-SDZ6-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We begin the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure. Today's session is excused by a mag. Leila Hercegovac, Mr. Boyan Starman, mag. Dejan Židan, Mr Matevž Frangež and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-13-SDZ6-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Who excused me, I'm here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-13-SDZ6-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Okay, mag. Leila Hercegovac is not excused. That's the kind of information we got, so I apologize. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome it all. We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Thursday 12 July 2012, with reference. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I did not get any suggestions for extending the agenda and withdrawing points from the agenda. We'll get to the vote. Please, if you insert cards, check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting on the agenda. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] The agenda is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the agenda, this is in response to the demands of the Group of Members and Members to re-decision the National Assembly on the decisions of the College of the President of the State. It is a matter of re-decision on the decision of the College of 10 July 2012 to review five laws in accordance with the urgency procedure. It is a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the General Administrative Procedure, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Real Estate of the State and the Self-Governmental Communities and a bill on the Prevention of Late Payments. On the basis of paragraph 10 of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of 23 Members and Members, with the first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, requested that the National Assembly decide again on those decisions by the College. I request the applicant's representative or give him my word to present his position. I suggest you do this for all five requirements at the same time, which means you have 25 minutes. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-13-SDZ6-Izredna-15.ana.u4	Your Honor! The Government or the competent ministers have infringed the following rules: provisions of the Convention on Access to Public Information; Resolution on Regulatory Activities, which, in the framework of the minimum recommendations for public participation in the preparation of regulations, provides that this should take 30 to 60 days; Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the proposer should invite the professional and other public to submit its opinions and observations, with the time for the public to respond 30 to 60 days from the publication on the website; Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 143rd Article, do not give rise to any arguments justifying the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. The latter applies in cases where the interests of the security and defence of the State are concerned, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters or the reasons for preventing the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. Infringements or non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we witnessed in the adoption of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, are, therefore, continuing or will continue with the blessing of the President of the National Assembly. At that time, in our view, the rule of law was buried and Members were deprived of the opportunity to provide conditions for the enforcement of the rule of law in the application of the law, the right legal certainty, reliability, justice and could also be listed. Despite these facts, however, the government continues to force Members to deal with laws through a procedure which, in our view, no longer deserves to be called a legislative procedure, because it is in grave violation of the principles of this procedure. You got it right. I started somewhere in the middle. It's a simple piece of text I read on Monday. And this text, which I read on Monday, could be painted entirely today. We're talking about the exact same thing. From the National Assembly we have made a perfect farce and are heading toward the point when we say that we will eventually remain completely empty and some will probably be embarrassed — I feel uncomfortable every time I walk through the door of this hall. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out again or again within one week that the logic of emergency, reduced and urgent procedures has been established in the National Assembly. The regular or legislative procedure in which the National Assembly would carry out all three stages of the procedure at several meetings of the National Assembly would also allow the public concerned to take note of the proposals we are considering is simply no longer. Despite our warnings, the College of the President of the National Assembly has decided once again to consider a package of five new bills proposed by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly following an urgent procedure. This time, the coalition has gone beyond the record in its haste. We are a national assembly, which we set new records over and over again, as if we are at a sports game where we would like to achieve a collage – believe me, we will not get it for that. During the 16 hours after the Government transmitted the laws or published them in the information system of the National Assembly, it was more than obvious at the College that only members of the coalition were informed of the content, as far as could be studied at that time. The opposition, except for one, could not actually discuss it at all because it did not know what it was discussing. It appears that the ruling coalition, despite the complications with regard to the consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act, also admits that there have been errors in the timing of the adoption, does not want to and does not want to accept the fact that such haste and impeding public debate in the adoption of almost all the laws proposed by the Government can have harmful consequences. This does not mean only minor errors and superficialities or inconsistencies, but it can also result in harmful consequences that will later be difficult or even impossible to undo. In Positive Slovenia, we do not challenge the Government that some of the proposed changes are not necessary or meaningful. On the contrary. We cannot agree, however, that the Government is using the crisis to deal with laws under an emergency procedure. With regard to the novelty of the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, we agree with the Government that the law in force is not functional and that changes are necessary. However, the question is whether the proposed amendments should be considered following an urgent procedure, in particular if the Government itself states in its explanatory statement that, already in February, the members of the promotional council should support the proposed changes in or the solution why the Government has sent this bill to the National Assembly after more than four months and why the changes are necessary if the Government itself, in its explanatory statement, argues that it has only €90,000 in its budget for this year, planning only the preparation of software for the collection of the contribution it introduces into the law and the preparation of the promotion plan. In other words, this means only one thing — what we will deal with and accept quickly — will not really be done because there is no money for it at all. There is also a law on the prevention of late payments on the list of bill proposals to be dealt with under urgent procedure. This introduces a completely new tool for the protection of creditors – an enforcer – from abroad to the Slovenian legal order. By issuing the executing entity, the debtor agrees that the creditor may require the performance of the obligations from the executing entity in the amount of the cash held in any account owed to any service provider. In Positive Slovenia we welcome the Government's efforts to prepare measures to prevent late payments. We note, however, that this is an unverified new legal institute that needs to be discussed longer, and in the professional public it is possible to see a number of questions about this tool and doubts as to how this will work. We would like to point out to the ruling coalition that Slovenia among the Member States of the European Union is likely to be celebrated as the only country that changes and adopts fundamental laws in the field of the functioning of the State administration or of the basic act, employment by which administrative and other state authorities must proceed when they decide on the rights and duties of entities under the urgent procedure in administrative matters. We would therefore like to draw attention to the absurdity of government action, which also wishes to address such rules in relation to the interests of the security and defence of the country, the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters or the reasons for preventing the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. In addition, the Government classified this law as a so-called package to promote economic development. Let us see what it is to promote economic development. It seems even more scandalous to us that the proposal for a law contains solutions that were not, interestingly, included in the text that was recently published on the Ministry's website. This is the solution by which this law amends the Law on State Administration, thus allowing the state central information system to submit applications, service and information to the management of the Post of Slovenia. The ruling coalition has decided to place a system that works well overnight in the management of all economic companies, even though it is the majority of the country's property, at the same time as it predicts a withdrawal from the economy. It should be borne in mind that this economic company will take care of all the roles of citizens of Slovenia who operate in or out of the country in both administrative and judicial proceedings. Let us note that the Post Office of Slovenia is not subject to public procurement rules and will do what it wants. However, the issue of the protection of personal data should be mentioned as the most important argument to counter such urgency. The Slovenian Post Office will have access to official records and will monitor a system in which everyone, including archival documents, will be produced in the process itself. Absurd. The complete absurdity of accepting this in six days is, I suppose, because I don't even know when it's going to be an extraordinary session. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that the crisis should by no means become an excuse for short and urgent use of the procedure where it should not be used. This causes confusion, and the legal system works less efficiently, and there are also doubts as to whether such rohohitrite interventions interfere with the threshold of constitutionality, as they may violate the constitutional principle of multifacetedness, the legislative procedure, etc., which you already know more or less. Let me finish with just one sentence. True, it's a little longer, but it's clear enough and essential enough. Dear Members and Members! If we have said today that someone in this country is trying to create the impression that they are a state of emergency, today I can see that there is an emergency situation, because the government coalition has launched its actions with the decomposition of the democratic system, and this means that we are in danger of losing the rule of law, political dialogue and, last but not least, understanding. I don't see reason in this logic anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-13-SDZ6-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you. There is no debate on this item on the agenda and there is no explanation for the vote. We will now again decide on the treatment of individual laws by emergency procedure. First of all, I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of agricultural and food products shall be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 28. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the decision has been adopted, so the proposal for a law will be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Next decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act shall be considered on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 44. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 44.]] We'll deal with the law on a regular basis. Next decision: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] We'll deal with the law as a matter of urgency. Next decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Real Estate of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities shall be considered on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the decision has been adopted, i.e. an urgent procedure. Conclusion: The proposal for a law on the prevention of late payments shall be dealt with in an urgent manner. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] We'll deal with the law as a matter of urgency. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
