ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Alenka Pavlič, Marjana Kotnik Popot, Borut Pahor, Jakob Presečnik, Branko Marinič and Mihael Prevc. I salute you all very much. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the laws on economic societies. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology of Mag. They're making a mess of Rozich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act is subject to the provisions of Directive 109 of the year 2009 which simplify the process of recasting. This Directive amends or complements the reporting requirements, documentation in the event of a statusal transformation by merger or division and cross-border merger. This Directive of 2009 amends four other Council and Commission Directives on cross-border mergers of capital companies, on the division of capital companies and on mergers of capital companies and on the protection of the interests of shareholders and third parties. The bill, which is currently under consideration, removes the duplication of reports by the attached or divisional founding auditor. The use of the central electronic platform for the publication of messages on the status transformations of companies via the Apes portal is legalised, the preparation and implementation of the Assembly is simplified, which will decide on the status conversion for the use of electronic means, such as by e-mail and on the company’s websites, and removes the requirement for an interim balance sheet when the company has prepared a half-year report in accordance with the Directive. The deadline for the implementation of this Directive has passed 30 in our legal order. 6th year last year. The Commission invited the Republic of Slovenia to take the necessary measures to comply with the reasoned opinion within two months of receipt, i.e. from the end of January, for the non-notification of the transposition of the Directive. On 15 March, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia passed the law and forwarded it to the National Assembly and the law is in urgent proceedings. The deadline for response or implementation shall expire in mid-May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, good morning! At its first meeting on 4 April, the Committee on Economic Affairs considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies already mentioned. At its ninth meeting on 20 March, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The meeting was attended as usual by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, ZPS, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Chamber of Commerce. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with our Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. In particular, the Service made nomotechnic comments on a few articles, namely Articles 1, 5, 6 and 12 of the draft law. The amendments to the bill tabled by members of the coalition followed, namely Articles 1, 5, 6, 7 and 12 of the bill. The Committee was further invited to propose amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to Article 5 of the draft law, taking into account the opinion delivered by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service at the meeting so that the Committee could not be defined before this amendment of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development made initial additions and explanations to the articles and then made comments by the Legal and Legislative Service. I must say that the Committee has not discussed the content of the proposed solutions. The Committee has considered the amendments tabled by the Coalition's members, as I have already said, to Articles 1, 5, 6, 7 and 12 of the bill and has also adopted them. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and also adopted this law. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which is also an integral part of the report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a novel act on companies. As early as 2007, it was agreed at European Union level that the burden on companies should be reduced by 25% by 2012 with a view to improving the competitiveness of companies in the community. To this end, several Directives have been adopted, which have not all been applied by the Member States. By Directive 2009/109, however, the options made so far to enable Member States to use them change to a commitment. Slovenia is already well behind its transfer, as we are just before the EU court imposes a fine on us not to carry out the transfer. The legal novelty brings the provisions of the European Directive, which reduces administrative burdens in order to improve the competitiveness of companies in the process of reshaping. The bill therefore has positive consequences for the economy as it reduces administrative costs. The DeSUS Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u8	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that improving the competitiveness of the European economy as part of the Lisbon Strategy in addition to ensuring the financial stability of the euro area is the most important challenge facing the European Union at present. The pressure of other rapidly developing world economies is very strong. The adoption and consistent implementation of measures to enable this is therefore of paramount importance. The proposed amendment to the Law on Economic Companies thus represents one of the stones in the mosaic of improving the competitiveness of the European and thus the Slovenian economy. Today's amendment to the Company Act is an issue of alignment with European Union law on improving the competitiveness of the European economy by reducing administrative burdens on economic operators to 25% by 2012. The aim of the proposed directive, which is transposed into the Slovenian legal order, is therefore to improve the competitiveness of companies by reducing the administrative burdens associated with the process of reshaping companies. The proposed law thus significantly simplifies merger and division procedures between parent and subsidiary companies, provides for mandatory reporting of the management of changes in the company's assets, reduces the scope of the requested reports in merger or division of companies, eliminates the duplication of audit reports in the process of setting up new companies or increasing core capital in the context of merger or division, and adapts the implementation of the preparation of assemblies that decide on the status of transformation of modern technologies, in particular electronic operations. The proposed law also introduces a central electronic platform for the publication of the statusal transformations of companies, which will be established on the APIS website. The proposed amendments and additions to the Company Act bring about around EUR 300,000 in savings from the reduction of administrative burdens, which we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. This is a small but important step towards removing administrative barriers to the Slovenian economy and improving its competitiveness. The small steps are already followed by larger steps in the form of measures that will radically burden the Slovenian economy and create a friendly business environment, interesting for the different profiles of investors. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed changes are appropriate, so we will be pleased to support the proposed amendment of the Law on Economic Companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, I wish you all a very good day! At the European Council of 8 and 9 March 2007, it was agreed that corporate administrative burdens should be reduced by 25% by 2012 in order to improve the competitiveness of companies in the community. It is therefore a good five years from this agreement. On the basis of this agreement, Directive 2009/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted on 16 September 2009. The proposal for the amendment of the Company Act transposes into the legal order the provisions of that Directive, which simplifies the procedures for the legal transformation of companies. This Directive amends or complements the reporting requirements, documentation in cases of statusal transformation by merger or division and cross-border merger. The draft law takes into account key principles that focus on greater cost-effectiveness and simplification of procedures and reduction of administrative burdens. The principle of cost-effectiveness and the principles of simplifying procedures and reducing administrative burdens contribute to the greater competitiveness of companies in order to reduce administrative burdens associated with the fulfilment of reporting requirements and the publication of certain documents in status-change procedures. The principle of the use of electronic means is the adaptation of the Law on Economic Companies to technological progress, so to speak, the adaptation of the Law on Economic Companies to technological progress that introduces the use of electronic media, with a view to simplifying and appreciating procedures. So that the competitiveness of companies can be enhanced by reducing administrative burdens. Unfortunately, Slovenia is late for the transposition of that directive into the Slovenian legal order, as the transposition deadline for the Directive expired last June and Slovenia is already receiving the European Commission's warnings. Respectable. Without economic growth, all our further discussions in the National Assembly will be very barren. Once we resolve bureaucratic obstacles, we will help to build a more appropriate business environment, which will also give new jobs. The new Company Act will contribute to a better business environment, which is why we support this novelty by the MEPs and Members of the New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The aim of the proposal is to transpose the provisions of Directive 2009/109/EC into the Slovenian legal order. Its main objective is to improve the competitiveness of companies, to reduce administrative burdens related to the fulfilment of reporting requirements and to publish certain documents in status transformation procedures. It also introduces, as a result of technological progress, the use of electronic media to simplify and value all procedures. In order to increase the competitiveness of our companies, in order to reduce administrative burdens, namely to reduce reporting requirements in the context of status changes, it is the merger, division, merger, elimination of rules causing double reporting and thus creating unnecessary costs for companies, adaptation of the rules on the obligation to publish and ensure compliance with the third and sixth Directives and recent changes in the EU acquis in the field of law. The main solutions to the proposal of the law which gives rise to the provisions of Directive 2009/109/EC are: the use of the central electronic platform for the publication of the company's status transformations, the mandatory reporting of the management of any property change, the preparation and implementation of the assembly, which will decide on the status transformation, simplified mergers and divisions between parent and subsidiary companies. The proposed simplifications of the company’s status transformation procedures provide for a reduction of administrative costs in those procedures mainly because certain reports will no longer have to be prepared, allowing copies of the documents to be sent to shareholders electronically and free of charge. New sections will be used within the website to publish the notification of the submission of the documents to the registrar authority on Iipes, the publication of the documents on the company’s website and others. The bill will have a positive impact on economic societies that are being transformed. It seems important to us that the proposal of the law requires companies to use the Apple website where they will have to publish a notice of submission to the registration authority at least one month before the meeting of the Assembly which will decide on the status of the company, and to alert shareholders to their rights in accordance with Article 586(1) of the ZGD, which we consider to be a positive step towards the protection of shareholders' rights. In Positive Slovenia we will definitely support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. And a nice greeting to the secretary-general. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies brings to Slovenia the provisions of the Directive of the European Community which simplify procedures and allow reporting requirements to be reduced in some cases. The main objective of the amendment of the law is to improve the competitiveness of companies by reducing administrative burdens associated with the fulfilment of the reporting requirements of certain documents in the status transformation procedures. The key objectives in tackling administrative burdens are to reduce reporting requirements in the context of mergers and divisions, to remove double reporting rules and thus create unnecessary costs for companies, to adapt the rules on the obligation to publish and to ensure compliance with the rules of the third and sixth Directives and recent changes in the legal order of the European Union in the field of law. The bill takes into account the key principles aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness and simplification of procedures and reducing administrative burdens and contributing to the greater competitiveness of companies. Therefore, the SDS Group will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much again. Very briefly: Social Democrats will, of course, support the law. It is good that administrative obstacles are being reduced, that some financial resources are also being reduced. Of course, in the case of the Social Democrats, we expect the Government to take even greater steps on the economy to reduce administrative obstacles and to focus on reviving the economy. The Social Democrats will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The Civil Code will also support this law. Since I am the last, I will not explain what this law means – the transposition of a directive into our legal order. Perhaps on this occasion, when we are talking about reducing administrative procedures, I would suggest something. Why do we put in our legal order a directive that is practically mandatory, which we need to introduce? We can't vote against it. Why do we take the whole legislative procedure classically, as if it were something else? I think it would be in cases where only directives are being introduced that this should be the permanent task of all our services, government and those who are to make proposals in a professional manner and to inform us of that. It's a shame to discuss things you have nothing to say or nothing to change. This is a duty, and it has to be done. That's why it makes no sense for me here to go through the whole procedure with all the views and all the stuff that I've been taking, and that's for things that have already been adopted. It may be wiser to focus on adopting directives in the European Union in order to be more attentive and to give more procedures. So it would be good for Parliament and for our time to actually shorten this procedure in some way. I would suggest to the government that in cases where these changes are coming due to the introduction of the various directives that we are obliged to adopt, the procedure for them to look at these laws and to add indeed those things that are possible in such laws as the Law on Economic Companies is absolutely necessary. Then the procedure would be one and, of course, we would also deal with these things in such a way. Otherwise, I think it would be a great rationalisation if we made this very simple. As I said before, let the professional services put this in and learn about when this happened, Parliament, in order to confirm the writing of the amendment of the law. And we're going to save a lot of time on boards, sittings and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to go to 3. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, the summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the State by the Government for its consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr Branko Ravnik, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! With the adoption of the Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants, a legal framework for the regulation of the registration of varieties of agricultural plants and the processing and marketing of seed material of agricultural plants was established in 2002 and was aligned with the legal order of the European Union. This area is governed by 11 Council Directives, called marketing Directives, and many implementing rules regulate this area and these regulations are often amended and complemented. In 2010, Commission Directive 2010/60/EU establishing certain derogations in these arrangements was adopted, namely in the marketing of seed mixtures of feed plants intended primarily for use in the conservation of the natural environment. This amendment allows for the provision of uniform conditions at EU level for the processing and marketing of so-called conservation seed mixtures, namely a mixture of seeds intended to preserve the natural environment in the context of conservation of genetic resources or biodiversity, by derogating from EU provisions on the marketing of plant seed at EU level. And in order to harmonise this Directive, it is necessary to amend the Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants and to adopt a specific regulation on the production and marketing of seed. This law, the amendment of the law to our legal order, transposes the basic provisions of that directive. The law provides the basis for the adoption of the sub-law necessary to transpose the other provisions of that Directive. In line with the proposals and recommendations of the National Action Plan for reduced administrative barriers by 25% by 2012, the proposed amendment amends and complements certain provisions relating to the procedure for the registration of suppliers, the procedure for formal confirmation of seed material of agricultural plants and the implementation of the programme of specific testing of plant varieties as a public service in the field of seminary. The draft law has no direct financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment is held at its 2nd session. 4. 2012 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants. Representatives of the proposer of the law participated, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Legal and Legal Service and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments on Articles 3 and 6 of the proposal. The comments to Article 6 of the draft law have been taken into account by the Committee in its amendments, which are reflected in the report of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. Within a set time limit, none of the qualified applicants tabled amendments to the draft law. The proposal was not discussed by members of the committee. Only the President of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia took part in the debate, who informed the Committee that the Chamber has no comments on and supports the bill. On the basis of the written proposals of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment for amendments to the Committee, the Committee has, as has already been said, taken into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service in accordance with Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted three amendments to Article 6. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. The honourable Members, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, endorsed it with all the votes of the Members present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u24	Good day to you all! The 2002 Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants established a legal framework for the organisation of the registration of varieties of agricultural plants and the marketing of seed material of agricultural plants in accordance with the Regulation of the European Union. This area is regulated at the level of the European Union in a number of directives that are very often changing, and this must also be followed by changes in the internal legal order of the Member States. The proposed amendment to the Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants is already the third amendment to the basic law and its main purpose is to transpose certain provisions of Directive 2010/60/EU into the Slovenian legal order. The adoption of the proposed law will not, however, constitute the fulfilment of all the obligations laid down in that Directive, but will provide a legal basis for the adoption of a sub-legislative act which will fully bring the Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The basic solution to the proposed law is therefore the transposition of Directive 2010/60/EU, the main purpose of which is to establish uniform conditions for the production and marketing of conservation seed mixtures and also to require Member States to preserve environmentally relevant areas as areas of the source of conservation seed mixtures. In addition, the Directive and the proposed law therefore lays down the conditions for the production and marketing of seed preservation mixtures and must be subject to appropriate traceability. Furthermore, the proposed law follows the recommendations of the national action plan to reduce administrative barriers by 25 % by 2012, as the provisions of the basic law on procedures for the registration of suppliers and the validation of seed material are being amended. Since the deadline for the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order has expired at the end of last November, the adoption of the proposed law is therefore essential if the European Commission does not want to introduce a procedure against Slovenia for non-compliance with EU law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the solutions contained in the proposed law are appropriate and actually allow for the most appropriate protection and preservation of different varieties of seed mixtures, so we will unanimously support it. You could even say, "Our seed, your success." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u25	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, good afternoon! With amendments and additions to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, of course, we harmonise the Slovenian regime with the European Directive. As already mentioned by Mr Žveglic, this deadline has expired in November last year, and we believe that the law is necessary as soon as possible in New Slovenia and that we will support it. EU countries need to take care of preserving the remaining ecologically unladen areas, such as Natura 2000, where we can store plant genetic resources. This is the source of the directive. Unfortunately, we are often unaware of the importance of biodiversity until problems arise, when various goods begin to be lacking, their quality deteriorates, or when health problems occur, such as food, fuel, air and so on. We believe in New Slovenia, but I have no doubt that not all our fellow citizens would feel that it is very important to preserve biodiversity. This Directive wants to set uniform conditions for the production and marketing of seed mixtures intended for use in the conservation of the natural environment in the context of the conservation of genetic resources at this level in the EU. This will enable better conditions for the production and marketing of seed materials, varieties naturally adapted to local and regional conditions, and are threatened by genetic erosion and mixtures of seeds intended to preserve the natural environment in the context of conservation of genetic resources. The new Slovenia will, as it is said, support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u28	Nice hello to you all! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants will be supported by bad news due to time delay in the Poland Group of Positive Slovenia. Why? These are the provisions of the EU Commission Directives of 30 years. 8. 2010 which the Republic of Slovenia should transfer to its legal order by 30 at the latest. 11. 2011. And today we're 18 years old. 4. 2012. We're not really a role model here. And since it is a process of implementation concerning the traceability of seed mixtures or their control on the market, we can only hope that, due to the delay, the unsupervised seeds have not been raised in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u30	Dear Secretary of State, President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us one of the laws that brings one of the many EU directives into our legal order, and the amendment also improves some of the rules that have proved necessary or useful in the implementation of the law. As has been said several times, the Directive has been adopted in order to ensure uniform conditions at EU level for the production and marketing of seed varieties which are naturally adapted to local and regional conditions and are threatened by genetic erosion and by mixtures of seeds intended for the conservation of the natural environment in the context of the conservation of genetic resources. It may sound complicated, but in the SDS Group we believe that all those to whom the change is intended know exactly what changes bring. We also hope that, in the transposition of this directive, we are not too pesky again in our desire to please the EU and that we will soon not meet again with the next amendment of this law, where we will once again change some minority. For too many changes in such a specific area, which still brings changes to the regulations, has brought into practice only confusion. Ignorance can also bring fines that are very high in this case. It may not be irrelevant at this time that no additional financial resources are needed to implement the newly proposed solutions to the law, neither the State budget nor other public funding. We'll support the marriage in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The most important novelty brought about by the novel Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants is the provisions that allow the production of seed seeds, a mixture of seeds collected on the natural grass, in a traditional way, such as those produced by our ancestors. Seeds of these mixtures can be used to restore natural habitats, in degraded areas, on areas affected by floods, reptiles, crayons. In particular, their use in landscape parks and other areas identified by the Nature Conservation Act as special conservation areas, such as the Natura 2000 area, will be of particular importance. We are confident that the use of conservation seed mixtures will make an important contribution to the conservation of biodiversity. Due to the traditional method of production, it will have a positive impact on the image of the cultural landscape and its aesthetic and natural value, and we therefore support the amendments to this law. Another area new to the amendment of the law is the special examination of varieties of agricultural plants. It is generally known that production is equally affected by environmental factors, production technology and varieties. Knowledge of the characteristics of the variety and its response to the climate and soil conditions in which it is produced is of utmost importance for producers. By special testing of varieties carried out under the applicable law, producers shall be provided with neutral and professionally sound data on varieties tested in our agro-climate conditions and different locations in different methods of cultivation and for different uses of varieties. The special examination programme of varieties shall be carried out in accordance with the applicable law as a public service in the field of seminary, on the basis of a 7-year programme adopted by the Minister. The programme shall also set out the varieties to be included in the special examination of varieties. The resources for the implementation of this 7-year programme, which was adopted for the period 2007-2013, shall be fully provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. With the amendment of the law, the costs of implementing the next 7-year programme will also be borne by the owners of the varieties from 2014 onwards, for the varieties that they will propose for themselves in the special examination programme. For these reasons, we will support the amendment of the Law by the Members of the Civil Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you. And on behalf of the DeSUS Mag Group. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u34	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will undermine the proposal for a new Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, since it is only a transposition of the directive, even with half a year's delay. We will also support the proposal for a new law because, in a legal system, it does not change in any way the basic design and established solutions of the existing law. The proposal amends only those solutions for which it has been shown so far that they need to be revised and relate to the procedure for formal validation of seed material of agricultural plants and to the implementation of the special testing programme of plant varieties as a public service in the field of seeding. As we say, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. I don't have any amendments, so I'm finishing my second reading of the law. The decision on the law will be made in the framework of the vote in accordance with the meeting of the assembly tomorrow. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 8. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on financial transactions, procedural reasons for insolvency and forcible termination. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. There are no government representatives among us? Yes, it is. I give the floor to Minister Plitsanica, if he wishes, for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. He doesn't? Good. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, a very nice greeting from my distinguished colleague and colleagues, Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! I am sure that there will be an interest in the parliamentary groups to discuss this bill. Let me remind you, on 12 January this year, the previous government adopted a proposal for a new law on insolvency, which seeks to increase the possibility of maintaining healthy kernels, to further protect creditors and workers, and to establish an institution for small-scale settlement. The novelty, inter alia, amends the conditions for payment by ordinary creditors in a compulsory settlement from at least 50% in four years to 30% in eight years. At that time, after the government's meeting, the then Minister of Justice, who was engaged in ongoing business, said that the insolvency and forced termination procedures in strengthening the possibility of restructuring companies involved, inter alia, sharpening the criteria for determining when the company was insolvent. The timing of the proposal coincides with the timing of preparation for insolvency proceedings over Viator&Vektor and Primorje, the largest owners of which are prominent members of the LDS and the person who once offered her the mayor's candidacy on the LDS list. But it's just a finding, and there can be speculation. These are facts and in New Slovenia we see this interesting time coincidence. When we study the proposal of the amendment of the law and read the opinions of the representatives, this is what the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia says, then we see that these two economic representatives have not found a common nominee. This concerns us, and this also leads us to believe that the New Slovenia Group will not allow this law to go into further consideration. Thus, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration if such a decision is proposed. We would like to have a comprehensive solution in this extremely difficult and complex area, because the frequency of changing such legislation is too great. In the last five years, we have changed it, or the National Assembly has changed it at least five times. And this is a major disruption for economic operators, especially those with problems. Of course, this is a major disturbance, or a big question, especially for the creditors. We too would like to imitate our neighbors, the Austrians, who wrote similar legislation in 1914 and then did not change it until 2010. In our view, these are, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, the right legal solutions. It is true that we are a young democracy, it is true that adaptations in our marriage are certainly more frequent, but with careful consideration, with the participation of all those involved in this law, I am sure that we can come up with a better solution, a comprehensive solution. As I say, and thus conclude, the parliamentary group of this proposal will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, honourable Members! The main solutions and objectives of the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessation are: to maintain healthy cores in enterprises and therefore proposes to ease the conditions for the commencement of an enforcement settlement, to reduce the requirement for payment of claims in the enforcement procedure from current 50% to 30% in four years or to 40% in the case of payment of claims within eight years; to introduce a simplified compulsory settlement for espouses and micro-enterprises; to ease the conditions for initiating the enforcement settlement procedure constitutes a significantly cheaper, faster and more frequent process of financial restructuring for these entities; to improve the situation of workers, creditors of the insolvency debtor introduces a new reason for objecting against the management of a compulsory settlement if the employer does not pay regular salaries to those entities; to improve the situation of workers, creditors of the insolvency debtors of the procedure introduces a new reason for initiating the rule; to impose an additional penalty on them; to the employer not paying workers regular salaries at the level of the minimum wage; and to grant them; to grant them; to grant them; and to make a contribution to the contribution to the Member States; to make them; Consistency of the proposal. The proposal for a law is supported by the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce objects to the acquiescence of the conditions for the initiation of the compulsory settlement procedure, which provides that the debtor must offer at least 30 % of the payment to creditors by means of an enforcement settlement proposal within four years or, if it offers at least 40 % of the payment, the period of payment shall not exceed eight years. A minimum payment of 50 % of claims over a period of four years shall be subject to the applicable arrangements. The Chamber of Commerce considers that by solving the healthy cores of an insolvency enterprise on one hand, the applicant puts into great liquidity problems and insolvent position of its creditors, so far healthy micro-enterprises and craftsmen. The Chamber of Commerce agrees with the introduction of a simplified enforcement settlement, but notes that the conditions for the adoption of a compulsory settlement for micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs are significantly more stringent than the compulsory settlement applicable to all other undertakings. In addition to the consent of creditors whose total amount of claims is at least six-tenths of all those claims, more than half of all creditors whose claims are listed in the debtor’s claim list are required. Arguments for. By adopting the novel, it would be possible to preserve the healthy cores of the economy. It would also be possible to carry out insolvency procedures without higher costs for small micro-enterprises and espouses. The novelty could help to preserve and revive some businesses that would otherwise go bankrupt. With the proposed reduction of the required remuneration for creditors and the extension of the deadline for them, they could allow creditors to be paid more and more quickly. By implementing these changes, they would avoid the mass bankruptcy of companies, since, in the event of this facilitated condition, enforcement would be able to continue its business, which is to say that they have a competitive position on the market, they have a product that is being sold. In the event of a coerced settlement, interested creditors are allowed to take a decision through the creditor committee to increase their core capital through new cash deposits. Thus, creditors could enter the ownership structure of the insolvency debtor instead of the previous owners who did not make an increase in the company’s core capital with new deposits, even though this would eliminate the causes of insolvency. Arguments against. Deteriorating the position of small and micro enterprises and craftsmen, reducing the protection of the interests of small creditors. Forced settlement shall not be intended solely for the protection and preservation of the debtor. Several points from the public presentation of opinions were highlighted by participants: the biggest controversy and concerns were raised by this proposed Article 5 on the reduction of the payment threshold in compulsory settlement from 50% to 30%. During only five months of their previous mandate, the Ministry of Justice has already initiated procedures for writing this new law on the grounds that the initiation of enforcement procedures is too small in terms of the period before the law is in force and that it is more than obvious that the threshold is too high. Every month, there were about 50 bankruptcys, virtually nothing forced settlement, 3. This is said to be the reason for the change in this is because many companies have been forced to settle in the next bankruptcy process. Much more than the launch of enforcement procedures is an important number of confirmed, so-called forced settlement procedures, and most importantly, how many settlements have been successfully completed. The solutions proposed today should be supported by concrete figures on the opening, confirmed and completed of forced settlement and the experience gained so far with the use of enforcement settlement. Here, too, was the view that a lot of forced settlement was quite late reported. By then, companies were in a difficult financial situation, and certain circuits had already been made, and there were no statutory deadlines. The deadline between compulsory settlement and bankruptcy is not in the amount of the creditors' payment, nor in the possibility of continuing their activities, nor in the maintenance of jobs and trademarks, but a fundamental difference in the fate of the existing generally incompetent ownership and management structure. The latter is replaced in the event of bankruptcy, and in any case, the "force" is maintained by the team that brought the company into insolvency. And it is true that maintaining an incompetent management apparatus is the most fundamental reason for the economic operator's continued or renewed failure despite the financial restructuring that takes place primarily on the back of creditors. It's hard to get the company to the green branch to take the one that brought it to insolvency. In view of these assumptions, in many respects, and even in our circumstances, bankruptcy is a better option, not only in terms of creditors, but also in the long term from a national economic perspective for the employees themselves. The replacement of the ownership structure is therefore one of the fundamental conditions for a business entity to be able to recover from difficulties at all. This is possible under the current regime only through the introduction of bankruptcy, which is guided by professional, transparent and fair. Any insolvency proceedings should also entail a change of ownership. The novelty must be rejected and completed in full or at least in the disputed part, for example Article 5, and the preparation of an entirely new insolvency law, which will be based on a substantially different concept, and will put creditors at the forefront as soon as possible. The condition for a successful settlement is the withdrawal or limited influence of owners, supervisors who should be more in some coordination, in some way in cooperation with representatives of the creditors' committees. This option allows the adoption of an amendment to the Act with additional 199.b. and 199.c. articles which mean in the package that the creditor and external strategic partners will be granted access to the ownership structure of the insolvency debtor instead of those owners who have not provided adequate recapitalisation. We support the position of the Council of Justice. I quote. The Court also considers that, with a view to equal treatment of all creditors of the insolvency debtor and better protection of their interests, instead of the provisions of Articles 199.b and 199.c of the amendment of the Law, it would be appropriate to regulate the compulsory settlement procedure in such a way as to affect the adequate reduction of the business shares of the debtors in favour of the creditors. Thus, creditors should require, in each enforcement procedure, that a capital share of the company be recognised as a part of their claim, so that at least 30% of their recognised claim is paid in money for a maximum of four years and the outstanding surplus of the claim is converted into the equity share of the insolvency debtor. In this way the creditor practically loses nothing and has at the same time the right to manage. The right to this requirement could be transferable to another creditor in a court case where one of the creditors would not want to co-owner an indebted company, while at the same time those who somehow convert that share into an equity share may also sell that share, divest it, grant that for a guarantee or whatever. In this way, the burden of forcible settlement would also be divided into owners who apparently did not manage society well and creditors would be less vulnerable. The creditors, like the insolvency debtor's co-owners, could, in accordance with legal options, have an impact on the business of the indebted company and could also, as I said, sell, pawn or anything. However, persons recapitalising the insolvency company with new deposits shall acquire corresponding capital shares, which also confer on them the right to manage the insolvent debtor, on the basis of the fresh capital already invested. The favouring of these persons against creditors who may have converted into insolvency debtors significantly higher amounts of claims for the outstanding fresh assets of these persons is not consistent with the principle of equal treatment and is therefore not appropriate. If this amendment is supplemented by these opinions, opinions, amendments, we will support the law in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister! The economy in the Republic of Slovenia is currently in a very difficult situation. As a result of the economic crisis, a number of companies have had to initiate insolvency proceedings. Of course, payment non-discipline has added to this, all of which is reflected in the way that once successful companies or craftsmen cannot meet their obligations and are just before bankruptcy, although they could still maintain the healthy cores of their businesses, which would then continue to operate. The current legislation on insolvency procedures has not been effectively adapted to economic reality and changes are therefore necessary and necessary — this was pointed out by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce — in order to prevent bankruptcy in companies capable of carrying out financial restructuring and maintaining jobs. According to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, at least 50 % of the arrangements so far have been paid within a maximum of four years as a condition for the initiation of an enforcement settlement, and therefore this condition needs to be adapted to economic reality. However, as they point out in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, changes must also be of a systemic nature and in particular of a long-term nature in order to ensure efficient and predictable insolvency proceedings, in the interest of both creditors and debtors. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has repeatedly stressed, including in the public presentation of opinions, that it is unacceptable that insolvency legislation should be amended approximately once a year and that no integrated, systemic and lasting solutions should be envisaged, following the example of good practices from neighbouring countries. This was pointed out by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, although in most of its thoughts it disagrees with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In the last five years, we have amended insolvency legislation at least five times, if not several times. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as has already said, is completely opposed to the proposed amendment to insolvency legislation, since it considers that the changes would be the worst to be carried out by craftsmen who, despite the work done, would be even less paid in the event of bankruptcy of debtors, thereby jeopardising their activities. The most controversial proposal is to amend Article 143 of insolvency law, namely to ease the requirement for the initiation of a compulsory settlement procedure, which provides that the debtor must offer a minimum of 30 % of the payment to creditors by means of an enforcement settlement proposal within a period not exceeding four years or in the event that the debtor offers a minimum of 40 % of the payment to the creditors and the period of payment must not exceed eight years. The adoption of this proposal, which last year would reduce the minimum payment requirement of 50% of the ordinary claims within 4 years, would mean, as they say in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, the direct legalisation of the theft to small creditors and the deterioration of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2010, the established condition of a minimum payment of 50% of the ordinary claims within 4 years for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is thus a minimum to protect the interests of creditors. As they add, any change in insolvency law should be based on a fundamental principle in order to protect the interests of creditors and not as so far as forced settlement is intended only to protect the interests and preserve the debtor. Of course, within this law, which we are dealing with here today, there are also good solutions, such as the legalisation of a small compulsory settlement for espies and micro-enterprises, with cheaper and faster financial restructuring procedures for these companies, the possibility of recapitalising the insolvency debtor by the creditors' board, and a few more changes. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we cannot support changes and legislative additions because they do not constitute a compromise solution that would please both the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Nor do they represent the commitment we have made in the coalition contract to adopt the full reforms of bankruptcy and insolvency legislation in the light of the example of Germany, Austria and other countries. As soon as possible, I hope that the Government or the Ministry will prepare a more comprehensive solution to this problem, says insolvency legislation, so in the SDS we will reject this law today or vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u42	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Nice greetings to all present! The key development problem of Slovenia is the high indebtedness of the economy. This is reflected in the deteriorating condition of banks and the resulting credit crunch due to the accumulated investments and the marginal capital adequacy of banks, and in particular in the fact that companies are no longer able to service their obligations due to their over-indebtedness. However, due to over-indebtedness, banks do not receive adequate support for their restructuring, and this is one of the main problems requiring a rapid response from the whole policy, especially governments that have not presented any action to date or at least an idea of how serious and systematic it intends to address this issue. The number of bankruptcys is rising, there is an increasing number of unemployed people, so the resolution of each job must be our common priority. Therefore, the Slovenian economy needs an effective purification process to ensure that creditors receive the payment of their claims in a legitimate and fair manner and that companies are still burdened by the obligations they place under water and thus retain healthy cores and jobs. Procedures under the existing Financial Transactions Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures have proved to be insufficiently effective and long-term, which makes it impossible for non-trustees and non-insolvency debtors to have an optimal way of clearing up the accumulated liabilities of companies. We will support the amendment of the law because we see in it the possibility of greater workers' rights and the preservation of healthy kernels, in particular through an improved way of paying for new shares in forced settlement. We therefore support the change in these rules. In this process, we see the possibility of regulating the rapid bankruptcy procedure, which will allow for a rapid conversion of creditors' claims into equity shares. We therefore call on the ruling coalition to support this law and to allow its amendments and additions in the follow-up process. Economic reality does not give us time to ignore the accumulated economic problems. We need quick and effective solutions, so the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u44	Dear President, Minister of Respect! On 28 March this year, the National Assembly presented opinions on the proposal for a new Law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, which has already been the fifth in just so many years. The most controversial part was Article 5 of this novel, which would have reduced the minimum permitted share of the compulsory settlement debt introduced by the novel less than a year ago from 50 % to 30 %. The other proposed changes introduce a small compulsory settlement for espies and micro-enterprises, which would mean significantly cheaper, faster and more frequent financial restructuring for these entities, by extending the possibility of recapitalisation of the insolvency debtor by the creditors' board also in the case of the conversion of claims into equity shares, by restricting the insolvency authorities in the enforcement process and by allowing the transfer of the insolvency debtor's management to the payer of new shares. The note thus fully relates to the compulsory settlement procedure intended to preserve economic operators, which is a significant difference from bankruptcy. The purpose of the enforcement settlement is to enable the insolvency representative to obtain financial restructuring on the basis of which he becomes able to pay in the short and long term. And of course, the purpose of the enforcement settlement is also to provide creditors with more favourable conditions for payment of their claims than they would have been if a bankruptcy procedure had been introduced. It is essential for the effectiveness of the enforcement settlement that it is proposed as soon as the debtor is more ineligible or ineligible in the long term, which means that it is more than two months late in fulfilling 20% of its obligations or is in debt or loss reaches half of its core capital. As we know, in Slovenian reality, these rules apply only rarely. The capital is largely negative when the application for initiation of the procedure is submitted. This clearly shows that the biggest problem of insolvency proceedings in our country is not in law itself, but in that it is not respected and such disrespect is not sanctioned. The boards and supervisory boards of companies are obliged to monitor the short- and long-term payment capacity at any time and to propose liquidity risk management measures without delay, otherwise they bear full criminal and solidarity liability for causing damage to creditors. In the case-law of recent times, there have been confirmed forcible settlement of rareness and only exceptions to the obligations paid from confirmed enforcement arrangements. However, there are no exceptions, even before the rule, to the abuse of forced settlement, which are proposed substantially too late and with a view to buying time and blinding creditors for the purpose of definitively exhausting the debtor and taking all the time limits to challenge the actions at issue in insolvency proceedings. The analysis shows that the capital adequacy of companies in forced settlements is very poor, and the introduction of the threshold of payment to at least 50% has slightly improved it. The lowering of this threshold, as proposed by this amendment, would make it worse again. The proposed lowering of this threshold is thus totally unacceptable for the National Gazette and we do not explicitly support the novels in this part. On the other hand, the novelty also contains several steps towards more effective regulation, such as stricter insolvency checks, additional restrictions on the actions of the debtor's administration, the prevention of the involvement of related companies in the creditor committee, the improvement of the situation of creditors' workers, restrictions on the right to vote of individual companies and the like, which does not significantly contribute to the quality of this novel and consequently to the quality of the law. The Citizens' List considers that the proposal for a novel is inappropriate for further consideration on the Home Committee, despite any subsequent amendments, so the National Gazette will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u46	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for the amendment to the Financial Action Act, insolvency procedures and compulsory settlement. We have before us a law that the former government has imposed as an emergency. The competent minister in this composition of the government has already presented the law at the very presentation of public opinions as necessary for adoption if we are to ensure effective and realistic possibilities for restructuring insolvency companies. This is crucial for maintaining healthy cores of the economy and jobs. Of course, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we fully agree, and we wish that there would be no forced settlement, no bankruptcy proceedings at all. However, these procedures are unfortunately part of the business life cycle. The emergence of these procedures depends on several factors, one among them I consider to be crucial, and this is the ability and integrity of the managers or the management of the individual company. It is true that the rise of so-called "forces" and bankruptcys is worrying, but let us admit that many of them are maliciously caused, that the assets of the company disappear, and creditors, including workers, remain empty. It is also true that the economic crisis has demanded its tax, but we also have companies that have not only survived but have responded to the crisis in a timely manner and even increased and expanded their production, transport and profit employment. This raises the question whether, indeed, the core of the poor economic situation and such a high number of bankruptcys in the country is poor insolvency law and at which points it is poor, or whether or not we might think that the existing system is too misused and how to address it. This law is intended to improve the process of forced settlement, which has proved to be a fairly controversial institution so far, as it has been repeatedly played out because in fact most of the "forces" have ended with bankruptcy. However, we know the purpose of the forced settlement is to save healthy cores, to continue business, to maintain jobs and also to pay the creditors optimally. Although this new law does bring some good solutions. We could support quite a few of the proposed measures, such as all administrative measures and additions, which are prepared on the basis of previous experience and practice. We also estimate that there are probably no reservations to support the introduction of a simplified enforcement settlement for independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises. The change that is questionable for us in this law is to ease the conditions for starting a forced settlement of the insolvency enterprise from 50% to 30% of the possibility of paying claims, as we believe that this would make the situation of small creditors worse. This would result in 70 % of their claims, which we believe would cause serious liquidity problems for healthy small and micro-enterprises and craftsmen, and consequently even creating a chain of further forced settlement and bankruptcy. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree that bankruptcy legislation is extremely difficult and therefore requires special attention, but in particular it must be based on the results of the profession and take into account the actual economic situation and the experience shown so far. The DeSUS Group agrees that existing solutions need to be upgraded, but they must also be designed in a way that will deliver effective results and prevent anomalies as we know them, and that they will not go to the detriment of creditors, especially small creditors or small and micro-enterprises and craftsmen. As we have assessed that the area of insolvency legislation needs to be better thought out, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we believe that this bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u48	Good day to you all, on my behalf. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we were in a very big dilemma about how to vote on this novel of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced settlement. For we need to know that in recent years this law has changed several times, and we well know that this is not a good signal. Even though we are very reserved in the SLS Group until Article 5 of this Act, which reduces the threshold for compulsory payment of creditors in the case of forced settlement, there are also some interesting things in this law, if not potentially beneficial solutions, such as the possibility of converting claims into equity shares or the possibility of forcible settlement for independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises. However, the fact is that even now the law in force has not yet been fully brought to life, since the current regime has been in force for some more than a year. If, for example, we decided to withdraw Article 5 in this novel and to summarize only a few other solutions, we should still look for systemic solutions later this year or this year. Following a discussion with the competent minister, as well as with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise which opposes most of the proposed solutions, it was clearly indicated that further amendments to such legislation would be necessary in the near future, and it is clear that, despite the possibility of amendments, we cannot solve all the problems of these procedures. Respectable. The Institute of Forced Settlement offers the possibility for creditors to obtain a larger part of their deposit back in the next few years than they would with immediate bankruptcy. In short, the positive thing, which has been in the past, as well as a lot of things in Slovenia, has sometimes been misused. In addition, by artificially prolonging the possibility of survival to companies without vision and development by shortening the remaining smaller creditors due to a prior silent agreement between the company and the majority owners. Clearly, this concern remains even more acute now. As has already been said, the law currently in force is not so disastrously bad that changes should be so urgent. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we would not want to fix such a complex law twice during the first year. That is why we will vote against the continuation of the hearing today, but we expect a comprehensive law to be drawn up as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u50	Your Honor! As I said in the presentation, the aim of the amendment is to enable the restructuring of insolvency companies by allowing the condition for the start of a compulsory settlement to be minimised. In the public debate that has been here – and I must say hello to those who have organised it – unfortunately there were few who have very major problems with such procedures, one or two of them have said their calvary, which is really desperate. At that time, there was also a list of the capital companies that were not eligible for compulsory settlement, which is likely to be many more today, and some of the companies on this list are already dead. The Novela will safeguard the interest of creditors in enforcement procedures, which is very important, but also increases the responsibility of owners and also of companies. So far, no one has followed this responsibility, and they're blaming some society for going into insolvency. It is also new that the proposal offers the possibility of converting claims into equity shares, even without the consent of the owners. These may be small things that are not seen so much in this marriage, but are certainly great news. It also strengthens the position of those investing in fresh capital willing to invest fresh capital. And that is why I think, although there may be some new developments to be made in this law, for starters this is the first step and it would be good if we all supported it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Richard Branisel, behind him is a mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u52	Good-bye! Thank you for saying that again. The balance of our crisis is 6 000 111 financially incompetent legal persons in 2011, which is 20% more than a year ago. The average daily amount of outstanding liabilities reached is EUR 475 million, which is 56% more than a year earlier. Blocked 8 000 520 business entities in 2011. In 2010, half of the bankruptcy rate in 2009 and in 2011 was more than a third more than in 2010. On average, we read on Ipes, 20 bankruptcy procedures a day. 80 % of the companies that propose for compulsory settlement end up in bankruptcy, the remaining 20 % are not fully completed, and it is possible that these companies may have ended up in bankruptcy as well. Which tells us that the forced settlement of this moment and in recent years it does not even play its part, and however we are correcting it, we are amending the law in this part. Debtors in debt tend to be late for insolvency proceedings. If we simplify it. Debtors must do whatever it takes to control their financial risks when they cannot pay the same bill. However, we have cases where these obligations under the law are ignored and forced settlement is being made, which means bankruptcy, when everything is too late when there is no more property and insolvent debtors are already completely exhausted and there is nothing left for creditors. When we talk about forced settlement, we can talk about the masters of forced settlement, of course, in a peorative sense, the masters of forced settlement in the past used this institution to suggest forced settlement for healthy companies, through connected companies and friendly companies, in fact, to vote a good part of the write-off of claims and then to embezzle creditors in this way. Forced settlement masters are those who are proposing 15, 16% of the remuneration, which is totally unacceptable, since last year, when this threshold was set at 50% of the remuneration, of course, it is no longer possible. I draw attention to the criminal and indemnity liability of administrations and supervisory councils, which is exceptionally or not enforced in practice. Here creditors have great opportunities to pay their claims, but they do not generally enforce them. Enforcement procedures are also going on for too long, which takes one year from the financial reorganization plan to the settlement vote, but we cannot blame either the courts or the law for this, but the fact that insolvency proceedings are so large that it is almost uncontrollable for the courts. The proposed novel, as it is said, brings some good things, but we believe that it is so uncoordinated in those essential things, and we would also like to see possible more systematic reflection and more systematic interference in this matter. I will vote in favour that the proposed amendment is not suitable for further consideration in the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you. Mag. Ambrožič gave up the debate. Mr Srečko Meh is next, followed by Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u54	Dear Members and Members, Madam Representative or President! In this way, we probably do not come too far to discuss where democracy is, in fact, and where we should discuss it, because we are giving up and not giving up views that may be extremely important for Slovenian companies, for creditors and for the moment in which we are. If we consider that today a sentence is one part of people and that we are not dealing with this problem, we might at least be dealing with a problem which is extremely problematic for this Slovenian space. If we are speaking today about the situation in the area of insolvency and the situation of companies, I must speak to all those who say that the situation is critical, bad and that something needs to be done, of course I fully agree that one of the reasons behind this is also payment discipline and that one of the main generators of payment discipline is also the state with all its indirect and direct institutions and everything else. And if I make a suggestion, I propose today that the Government should take the initiative and decide that it will be the first one to put payment discipline on the payroll, that it will not be late, and that it will be done by the municipalities and all the others who are involved in the state system in any way. We will also do much to make the problems in the Slovenian space significantly smaller to the Slovenian economy. We are very often warned by entrepreneurs, craftsmen, smaller ones and others that this is one of the main causes and that they do not get paid and that they do not hope to tell each other, because then they will be punished by wiretaps and everything else that will happen. This is not a good situation. And if we don't have anything at this point, we probably don't have time to talk like this, let's say, a few suggestions. We will not support this amendment of the law, the law is not suitable for further consideration and, of course, we will make a comprehensive, new law that will fully address the problems of insolvency and the problems of everything that is going on in the area of insolvency and insolvency. But there's still something to be done with the good programs. It is not right to simply dismiss them and say, good programs — one such case is in Radeč, where the congregation has tried to get a good program — and here we could do something to keep the good programs going. But excuse me, a forced settlement in a form such as today that a forced settlement leads to bankruptcy, of course, is a situation like simply telling him: "You have two, three months of time, do what you have to do, the company totally kneels down, does all the circuits that need to be done, and then there will be a bankruptcy in which you will no longer be in the company." We did this, say, in the case of Vegrad, when we had a forced settlement that was completely unsuccessful. At the time of the forced settlement, anything else happened that would not have to happen. That is why it would be right, ladies and gentlemen, to immediately replace the management, immediately replace the management that brought it, immediately replace the owners and prepare those owners who have an interest in not going bankrupt, then manage the company, and these are also creditors. We in this Chamber, as it was said, 18 did not agree on what a suitable solution is, not the Chamber of Commerce, not the Chamber of Commerce, of course the creditors themselves, the Society of Trustees was also in this Chamber. They discussed the need to do something and I can agree that this change of law is not the best, I can also agree that it is not good, but I am sorry, it is the only one. And at that time, we have no other change than that which may do something and bring, otherwise we will wait, wait for the Government to come up with a complete and comprehensive solution with all the partners involved and not united, and in the end we will come up with a proposed solution or some new solution that the coalition will of course accept. For this reason, I propose that we support the continuation of this process, to discuss how we can lead to a better solution than this, to do something to accept what may nevertheless lead to the possibility that creditors, good programmes can be secured, and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, we must protect workers, we must protect people who are not at all guilty, who had no opportunity to influence the management of the company, not to choose it. These people expect us to do something, including craftsmen, including independent entrepreneurs. Therefore, I ask you to reconsider allowing the vote to proceed with a procedure that we can stop at any time, and this time, the Slovenian Government can make any proposal it wants, comprehensive from A to Z, which will take into account or will not take into account the proposals that are in these amendments to the law and may nevertheless contribute more than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you. Ms Kristina Valenčič, followed by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. As a member of the committee, I myself had the opportunity to meet or listen to professionals, economists who went through insolvency or bankruptcy, as well as creditors. On this basis, I firmly believe that bankruptcy or insolvency law needs root and comprehensive reform, in order to simplify insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings, taking into account the equal treatment of all creditors. Experts also pointed out at the public presentation of opinions that it is not a problem in law but in respect for and implementation of this legislation. Today, we can see that most companies are proposing an enforcement settlement procedure too late, not when the company's capital adequacy is at 0%, as stipulated by legislation, but when it is already at -50 to -100%. It is true that the proposed changes also have some positive effects, such as a simplified enforcement settlement for smaller creditors, and unfortunately experts believe that it is only a dead letter on paper that will not have a positive effect in practice, since in practice it is usually the power of a large one. I therefore believe that an additional effort must be made to prepare a revised novel that will simplify the implementation of the enforcement procedures as well as bankruptcy and, of course, I am calling on the competent minister or the Government to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, followed by Mrs Maria Plevček.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u58	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the law introduced by the previous government in the parliamentary procedure has been said. I personally assess that this law is not so bad as to be rejected, that it could be amended and that the matter would be taken into account in the opinion of the Council of Justice and in the opinion of all interested parties, which this law deals with in some way. The problem of the National Assembly and the problem of the Government is that all too often we adopt certain laws, novels, novels for novelties, laws for marriage, supplements for supplementation, this does not lead anywhere. It is also an example that we are changing income for the first time, for the second time, in this reference already twice and in accordance with the envisaged Public Finance Balance Act, we will also change our income for the third time. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the future, when we are working on the law, let us take into account the law of all who are being dealt with by this law, not just a few counselors and experts within the government or the ministry. Would it be wrong if, when this law was in preparation, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and many other chambers were involved. No, it wasn't done that way. So let's get rid of the feeling that this bill is being rejected by the coalition now, as I've heard, just because it was put into the procedure by the previous government. It may be good to consider that this law actually merely complements the amendments – Article 5 is the most controversial – but let us note that this does not solve the comprehensive problem that lies ahead. Insolvency has so far been just some kind of pre-space in which large companies have used this position to dry up the company and bankrupt the company. This is not supposed to be the case in practice. We have burned ourselves too often, and for the future we should do something completely different or right. Let us listen to everyone and, as soon as possible, propose an amendment or a novelty that will save a comprehensive picture that will prevent payment non-discipline, which is the biggest enemy of this company or companies, small and micro enterprises, as jobs are today and tomorrow will be even more sought after, so they are also moving companies to other countries because they are invited, allowing them appropriate and better conditions to move, acclimatizing to hire their citizens and citizens, and our companies forgive workers, and so some rightly strike. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I have also talked a great deal with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, including our fellow Members of the Group, because I was worried about how this matter would take place. And I can see that it might be best if this law were to reject this novel as such, and then prepare a law that we will all agree with before. I personally agree with the opinion of the Council of Justice, which provides that the difference between 30% and 40% is converted or converted into ownership shares of an undertaking, but is this a solution? Today, it is best to give a clear message to all entrepreneurs, craftsmen: When you work for anyone, check their payment capacity, secure as much as you can, for only then and so you will be assured that you will be paid for your services, for your work. Many small businesses and craftsmen are at risk of breaking down because of payment indiscipline and because this system or our legislation did not provide adequate insurance for the payment of services or for the payment of works performed. The victims are mainly craftsmen and small businesses. We need to prevent the victims from being in the future. And also banks of creditors who are the largest creditors of large companies – unfortunately these banks are owned by the majority of the country and again we can say, boomerang is coming back, it hits everyone in the country, so we are where we are. Let us agree that in the future we will adopt laws that will not be disabled, that will be good, for we will accept the laws of the disabled, that sin be in this temple of democracy! We are the ones who have to take responsibility for the laws adopted that have led many companies, small and micro enterprises to despair. And today we read in the newspaper that the number of suicides is increasing from day to day, from month to month — why?Oh, my God! We are the ones who are to blame, and we must accept this, and we must correct this mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Plevčak. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Patricia Schulin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Insolvency proceedings shall be initiated where a company is unable to obtain from its shareholders, shareholders or creditors its own resources to stop negative business movements. It is a concern of all of us to prevent the collapse of companies that can still maintain healthy cores. After insolvency, the company which becomes insolvency must submit a report on the financial restructuring measures to the Supervisory Board. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, which we are considering today, is intended to ease the conditions for starting a compulsory settlement by modifying, from the current 50 % of the payment of the ordinary claims over a maximum of four years, at least 30 % of the payment of those claims over a maximum of four years, but if the debtor offered a higher percentage of the payment, the payment would be in the proposed 40 % over a maximum of eight years. We need to ask ourselves whether these proposals are fair or just unilaterally written for the benefit of someone. I believe that such proposals offer the debtor an even greater measure of the possibility of weakening creditors. If such a law had entered into force, the situation of small and micro-entrepreneurs and craftsmen as well as other weaker companies would have deteriorated, thus increasing the liquidity problems of creditors, which is the chain of insolvency, which would have passed on to creditors and could have led them to bankruptcy. If the concern of all of us is to prevent the collapse of businesses and to maintain jobs in an already weak and well-launched economy, then we cannot support the proposed law. It needs to be re-recast, simplified and carefully defined, which will mean good solutions for both debtors and creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Matevž Frangež. After him, Mr. Roman Zweglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u62	Hello! We have already warned several times that Slovenia's key problem is this instant over indebtedness of the economy. If we want to prevent each other from being bankrupt in long and complicated procedures, where we do not see the end, we are forced to agree that Slovenia will lose its job for jobs. Today, the Slovenian economy needs quick and simple solutions. A number of changes have been made to the insolvency, financial operations and forced termination law in recent years. It is a marriage that has relatively often been complemented and amended. It is probably true that we have a relatively poorly functioning system that does not allow the rapid, efficient, fair and legitimate payment of creditors and through this cleansing of our economy. Clearly, we need different solutions in this area. But I'm afraid we don't have this luxury, which is called the time for the ministry and the government to take a lot of time to prepare a new system law, because economic reality shows us that we need solutions now. We are already in a public presentation of opinions, which has been quite dynamic and which has shown very illustratively that complex procedures do not necessarily provide just solutions. At that time, we were able to listen to the statements made by many creditors, who showed very clearly how such procedures have been abused so far for large creditors to make better payments and, as a rule, that a number of creditors have been short-lived and the best existing owners and management of over-indebted economic operators. This is a situation that clearly points to the alarm and the policy attention that we must focus on this problem and clearly address it. Many dilemmas are also open in this novel. In any event, I call on the ruling majority in the National Assembly not to close the possibility of changes on the table today. Not because I would believe that the changes we are building today in the amendment to this law are optimal, but because I believe that we have no time and that new solutions can be made within this process. So we have a bad operating system, but it's a system that works, even though it's not working. We propose to install a rapid bankruptcy mechanism in this system with the same law. What's the idea of rapid bankruptcy? To date, it is still believed that bankruptcy means the cessation of the bankruptcy debtor, that this is the end of the legal person, thus ending not only the legal person, but they stop the employment, the jobs, end the patents, the business processes, end not least the references, which is a very dramatic case in the case of the only remaining major Slovenian builder. So what do we need? We need a cleansing mechanism. The economy is over-indebted, banks are unable to service the needs of an over-indebted economy because of their over-indebtedness on the one hand and on the other hand the problems faced by the banks themselves are no longer being monitored for adequate financial restructuring of companies, in order to maintain healthy cores in order to buy time, because it is impossible to solve businesses overnight. We therefore propose that a rapid bankruptcy be introduced within this novelty in a further procedure. What are the basic parameters of this procedure? In the event that, according to clearly defined criteria, the company would be in insolvency, the existing owners would have 15 days of opportunity, 15 days of time to resolve the insolvency situation with new capital payments. If not, a rapid bankruptcy procedure shall be introduced. Rapid bankruptcy means that within a period of time, experts estimate that this can be achieved within 45 days. We shall distribute the company proportionally to the value of the creditors' claims to the new owners, i.e. to today's creditors. This is, of course, an uncomplicated operation when we talk about undisputed claims. Let us find that persons A, B and C have each of their claims and proportionate to the state of claims we distribute ownership in this company and distribute the existing owners. Of course, the situation is much more complex if these claims are disputed. In this case, they would suggest that in the case of a rapid bankruptcy procedure, this is a special purchase and that the scope of this outstanding disputed claim is reserved for the extent of the company’s own shares. In this way, in the short term, a relatively short period of 45 days could result in the clearing of a company’s debts. This means that this company would have new owners, yesterday's creditors, and the issue of debts would be resolved. A special chapter in this process is, of course, a question of bank loans which are generally secured by mortgages. In this case, banks would have the option to decide whether the value of the mortgages would be used to participate in the ownership conversion and thus to become the owners of the company itself or to keep the mortgage, to cash this mortgage if there is no other arrangement and, of course, to pay liquidity from this mortgage, which is said to be only real estate, could still lease this company through such a rapid bankruptcy procedure. What's in it for us? If this procedure were to be deliberately introduced into the legislation, possibly and hopefully already in this process, it would be easy to come up with a quick solution to this great spasm in which we found ourselves. A number of companies would burden their debts, a number of owners, on which we are often angry, because they are waiting until the last moment, and in the back of the story of abuse, the outflow of assets and so on, all that is allowed today by long procedures, so that the owners and the management of assets, from which it is possible to pay the creditors, are able to get somewhere safe. The type of cases in Slovenian history is also in recent times that indicate that this is possible and that our companies have sufficient knowledge to achieve this. But that's the problem, because at the end of this procedure, there's nothing left. It does not remain a rounded business process, whose output is a product, is a service that achieves some added value. And today we are in a situation where it is necessary to fight for every company when it is necessary to fight for every job. Once again, I call on the ruling coalition to seriously consider this proposal, which would reduce the indebtedness of the economy in a relatively fast and simple way, to increase liquidity in the economy, thus allowing many economic operators a new start, with many people retaining their jobs. The solution in insolvency proceedings is therefore that yesterday's creditors become new owners of companies, because obviously existing owners have brought the company too far. I call on you to vote in favour of the appropriateness of this law at the vote tomorrow, and allow us to discuss this even more closely on the working bodies. It would be a shame if we didn't have time to think about big changes and a new law. The solutions require the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian reality now. I respectfully invite you to cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Roman Zweglic, Mr. Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u64	Your Honor! When I talk to craftsmen, of course, everyone tells me that the solutions proposed must be rejected, that this is nothing more than a legal place and that it was prepared in time for the rescue of a particular tycoon. Of course, economists speak differently. Although I personally do not know the successful coercion in Slovenian history, I do not know it to be quick. I can be wrong. The solutions proposed here are in here, and I do not see that they would be fast, but especially effective, of course fair. Of course, I would like these solutions to be supported by some other relevant criminal legislation. This is the solution that my predecessor was talking about, around a rapid bankruptcy, I find very meaningful, but I don't know if I can do it in this law right now. I wish we had a fast bankruptcy law without a forced settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Badger's gone, mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš doesn't. Mag. Dejan Židan, the word is yours, followed by Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u66	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-worker, a nice greeting! This is a typical law where there is no need for political debate, and I like that such a debate does not take place here either. In fact, our Group of Members has only one request and this is the next. We are all dissatisfied with the current legislation. This legislation is another example of Slovenian specialty when we make so many exceptions that the legislation becomes ineffective and basically protects those whom it cannot protect, we know that. Now the only way is possible in two ways; one way is, and I also respect the Minister's will to draw up a new legislative proposal in full, but this is one of the most complicated laws. So it can happen that this law will not be ready in a very short time. But we have operational problems. And because of these operational problems, which basically mean that we lose too many companies, which basically mean that the legislation at this point is such that owners who have deliberately or unintentionally destroyed the company have been pumping this company for several months, then our proposal is that at least this abuse, which the unsuccessful owners are using, is also to prevent in a way that forced settlement is possible earlier and easier to implement. Of course, I also advocate that a proposal be drawn up as soon as possible to carry out a rapid bankruptcy. Only when a rapid change in ownership is possible will we be able to allow a number of companies that we have lost because old owners exploit the regulatory complexity and do everything they can to avoid the change of ownership, ultimately affected workers. The final product is – what? The old owners manage to withdraw some of the assets, some of the financial resources, and Slovenia loses its economic activity and what is most important is that our workers lose their jobs. Dear coalition, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to express your willingness to cooperate with the opposition when it comes to the interests of people, citizens and citizens, in practice. Now you have a good opportunity, and I urge you to allow further consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, behind him is a mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A number of us were present at an extremely well-prepared meeting of the Chamber of Commerce when the Chamber of Commerce awarded traditional awards to the best entrepreneurs in Slovenia. There he was gathered, as we like to say, the flower of the Slovenian economy, which he told us from the stage and after individual interviews: "We do not ask you for money," so you and us politicians, "but we ask you to make us a legal state." In fact, nothing new, but a big task for the National Assembly. We in New Slovenia would like to see the content of this legislation, which we are considering today, really agree with the real law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. I am talking about the representative, on the one hand the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, and on the other hand the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. But before considering this novel law, which, by the way, can be said to be minimal, it is a matter of minimal adaptation of the law, unfortunately these two economic organisations have not been unified. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia supports this amendment of the law, on the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry opposes the solutions envisaged in this amendment of the law. Moreover, with the signed President, Dr. Mir Cerar, the Council of Justice made a minimum but, in my opinion, a weighty comment. The Court has a comment against the first paragraph of Article 1 of the amendment, which provides that the creditor committee has the right to review the business books and the entire documentation taken over by the bankruptcy manager. And then the explanation of this observation: "This provision is contrary to the principle of equal treatment of creditors." The members of the creditor committee are only some of the largest creditors to whom the possibility of reviewing the business documents and the entire documentation relating to the bankruptcy procedure would give undue priority to the other creditors. In this way, these creditors could obtain information on what evidence the bankruptcy debtor has of the existence and the amount of their claims. This is a strong observation by the Council of Justice. On 27 March this year, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also organised a round table entitled Forced settlement or bankruptcy, for et contra noveli of the law, on the right day before the public presentation of opinions on the amendment of the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Let me just list a few points, and just not to say that I may be taking these conclusions from their round table to rip them out of context, but I will only read those that are written in bold print. First time. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia says: "It is unacceptable that such an important law is being amended annually. It is therefore necessary to approach the development of systematic, lasting and mutually coordinated solutions, following the example of good practices by neighbouring countries, which can also provide consistent jurisprudence, for example, as I said in the presentation of the Group's position, Austria's insolvency legislation dating back to 1914 and was amended for the first time only in 2010. The Slovenian Chamber of Economics states that we are exemplary in the drafting of such legislation, saying: "The example of the organisation of courts and insolvency proceedings managers is found in Austria, Germany and Poland as well." These countries are examples of regulatory arrangements for the management of insolvency proceedings, especially for forced settlement. And another such conclusion is: "The key persons who dictate the course of enforcement and bankruptcy proceedings are the administrator and the judge. If existing legislation allows procedures to run effectively, proactively, fairly and appropriately, when they are personally engaged. The existing legislation allows this to happen." In Novi Slovenije we have a problem with the diverging opinions of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the comment was written by the Council of Justice and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry disagrees with the solution. So our reason is not, as a respected colleague, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič concluded that we reject the law because of the writing of former Minister Zalar. However, I trust the current minister and his team to write a good solution as soon as possible with the inclusion of all involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting especially to the minister who is here today among us. If you remember, at the beginning of the second regular session, I pointed out that it would be inappropriate for all ministers to leave Ljubljana today and not follow the debate in the National Assembly, so I welcome such conduct and am pleased to be able to discuss such an important topic with the Minister in the State Assembly. The law that we are considering today has already been tabled by the previous government, and due to the complexity of the content itself, a general treatment has also been proposed and has also been tabled by the coalition Members to request a regular procedure, which shows that the business of our companies and, in particular, companies dealing with insolvency problems and potentially bankruptcy issues is a very topical topic. In doing so, however, I think it is important to follow the interest that we conclude these procedures as soon as possible and that we do not allow the exploitation or exhaustion of these companies at the expense of the employees who are usually the most affected later. Of course, this insolvency is also related to other business partners, and it is usually not just one company, it is sometimes a fatal link with other companies, especially smaller companies, which can be placed in an extremely difficult situation and can also go bankrupt or bankrupt. However, the solutions that are possible in this law, which we are discussing, should also be examined in the sense that shares that would not have been paid in this process, however, would also have to be seen as an opportunity to enter the ownership structure of this company, which is insolvent, and thus allow all those who do not receive the claims paid to manage this company and may be able to resolve both this company and the jobs in this company as well as their own company. While the Council of Justice has pointed out the weakness that may arise compared to those who invest fresh capital in this company and then fully enforce that share in management, someone else who may have lost even more money in this insolvency process will be granted only an unpaid share as an equity share and will have a slightly less chance of managing this company. This is a dilemma that must certainly be cleared from a legal point of view, and in particular from a relationship, so as not to make a possible solution which would then be constitutionally disputed and thereby impede the implementation of the law, and so we would not do anything to resolve the plight of businesses. But I would add one more to this, and I can also say an experience that I think it would be good to examine in particular in the sense that when the bank becomes decisive whether a company will survive or how it will survive. We have a similar case, or one such case has been solved in the case of Adria, where part of the debt has been transformed into an equity share and then the bank has become also the co-owner of Adria and thus this company is going on business without the company stopping or getting into any more serious problems because it would not have had the opportunity to pay the debt. Similarly, I think that we could also arrange for other companies, of course agreement with banks, I believe that the mission will be almost impossible, but it would be worth exploring the possibilities that we have at other levels. In Slovenia there is a so-called network of business incubators or so-called technology development centres, which have certain means to help or establish a company or to provide some fresh capital so that an enterprise can start operating. However, it is money that both business incubators or technology centres derive from European funds, state funds and municipal resources. This seems to me to be one of the possibilities that through an incubator we can enter this company and also pay off perhaps some debt to the bank, and if the estimated programme that this company has as a perspective is realistic, it is realistic to expect that if we reduce the liabilities that have been incurred in this regard to the bank, of course we will offer the possibility of normal business as well as the existence of this company. In my opinion, there are principles. They're not unattainable or unattainable. With a little more effort on the part of all actors, it can be painted in the economy and in solving unemployment much faster than you might imagine that only some new law will always bring new ones, those right solutions, all those in the process, and that they are not part of it or will not be part of it to a large extent. While I understand the intention that the new government wants to create new laws, new starting points, new solutions, but still, these solutions, which are on the bench today, have been weighed on our tables in the professional public as well as on the level of users or chambers. However, these experiences and guidance are not, in my view, superfluous. That is why I think it would be wise to continue this process and to resolve some things at this stage, and then to upgrade some other solutions that could go in this direction, as I have indicated, that the country does not actually enter directly into these companies that have a good programme, but through so-called business incubators, thus retaining many jobs and also good programmes. The Radeče Paper is one of these cases where we can talk about the programme being very good, it has a market, too, an international market, but we simply do not know how to conclude this process in a way that is not so fateful for this activity within Slovenia and for the employees of us. Even worse, if we happen to have all this technology taken away from us by another partner from abroad and removed that knowledge from Slovenia. In particular, because of maintaining the technology we have, the knowledge we certainly have, as much as possible at the operational level, the thought that rapid bankruptcy may really be introduced is very important, but that we know what follows this rapid bankruptcy, who is the one who could set foot in this society as soon as possible. I hope that, despite all of this, today's debate will contribute to these solutions and that this law will survive. Then we will upgrade it with new, fresh ideas that the government will probably design.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Since Mr Jerovsk is not here, he has the word mag. Alenka Bratusek. Let's get the mags ready. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I will be brief, because our main thoughts will continue to be taken by Mr Stepišnik, but I would like his substantive thoughts to be heard by a little more members of the coalition, because if I look closely now, I think that only our parliamentary groups in the Chamber are more than all coalition Members. Now to the point. I cannot believe it, but if I use his words, I will say that I am appalled that there is no Minister for the Economy of Mr Žerjev today when we discuss this subject with us. A nice greeting to the Minister of Justice, the public administration and everything that belongs to him, but on such an important topic, I would expect the Minister of the Economy to sit with you – "the fighter for every job", as he likes to call himself, has shown us so far that he is really interested in only the jobs in his office, who and how much money he will employ in his office. Sad and worrying. According to our assessment, amendments could be added to make it better. Probably not the best, but better than the system we have today. That is why we also hope that you will recognize this in the coalition and allow the debate on this law and procedure to proceed. But I believe it's a problem if there's no idea how to deal with these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, prepare for Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Well hailed, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Government representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say that I also missed the Group of Positive Slovenia yesterday when we had a presentation of tax laws, and I really missed you in the debate when I had one of the presentations myself when I spoke to the empty chairs. I tell you, I also missed you with a very important adoption of legislation, i.e. tax legislation. With regard to this proposed novelty, I would like to point out that I come from an environment where most are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, espies and craftsmen fighting for their existence and two large companies. One of these is due to inefficiencies and insolvency in insolvency proceedings, first in compulsory settlement and now in bankruptcy proceedings. There are probably more reasons for the situation in which this company came into existence. One of those that seems very important to me is due to incorrect business decisions by the owner and administration, in which case a single administration. Solidarity, compensation and criminal liability against those who have caused such a situation due to incorrect business decisions shall not be exercised or respected. This is a problem and an anomaly that causes damage and hardship mainly to employees who did not have any effect on these decisions of the single administration and, of course, the decision of the owner. And now that the company is in bankruptcy, on its knees and when the owner is not willing to offer even the euro of its assets, such as the media, the credit flag, the assets that the company urgently needs for start-up, the start-up of a healthy core, the maintenance of technology and, in particular, the maintenance of jobs, the employees simply appear on the list of cancellations from the working relationship. On the other hand, creditors who are causing damage or consequently insolvency proceedings, i.e. subcontractors, suppliers, including micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, as well as the collapse of independent entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises represent a central part of the economy in Slovenia, and in Slovenia they should give priority to relaunching and economic growth, i.e. esp and craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I wonder if this novelty of the law before us is in the direction of protecting these small creditors, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the good solutions in this novel is also a simplified rapid enforcement settlement for these small creditors, but I personally do not see a solution to the real problems, i.e. only on paper. Do you really think micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen will survive under the conditions offered by this novel to wait eight years for these 30% and 40% of the funds to be paid? And that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry opposes most of the proposed articles in this novel, it also means something and gives a clear signal that the law needs to be thoroughly recast, that procedures will be clear, short, fast and effective and that the law will also be implemented. In particular, it is also necessary to consider the direction of action and also to require a solidarity, compensation and criminal responsibility against those who have put businesses in such a position. I will vote against the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman has the floor. I'd like to ask the Mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, nice greeting to everyone. I don't mind who proposed the law if it were so that it could be complemented properly, as you would like, then I wouldn't mind. However, it seems to me that this law does not allow these amendments to be duly supplemented in order to complement it, since simply certain articles which would need to be corrected are not open. It is therefore imperative that this law be rejected and prepared with a truly simple, effective law, short, simple. We don't have to wait for him for five years, we should go after the emergency procedure, because here is really one complete mess. I myself have witnessed various events in my history, various proceedings, and I must say that 15 years ago the marriage was better awarded than it is now. This law does not touch bankruptcy procedures or all of this. In fact, bankruptcy procedures are one death for a company, somewhere out there they see it as a fresh start. Break it down with us if I tell you about the case I had last, the bankruptcy comes in and starts the proceedings. Everyone has to report their claims, and then there are procedures for all valuations, collecting various audited and other statements, and then there are procedures for preparing for auctions, that's a lot of time, say, that's death. In the business world, we know that a company that doesn't live, because that's also normal, a person who doesn't usually live for more than an hour will never live again. And it's the end of the debate. Then it's just a matter of procedure and then there's auctions, sales and all. In fact, everything is designed to protect creditors in this process. After all, the creditors are not well protected, since usually nothing remains or the creditors get very little. Therefore, it would be good to make a very simple case in this bankruptcy legislation when the conditions for bankruptcy are established, a bankruptcy manager comes. This is what I experienced in Kranj in Planika, the bankruptcy manager came, we planned very precisely, that day we had permission to continue production, with an accurate procurement programme, the number of workers, buyers and we had this permit for three months at the table. Since the business was planned and also actually implemented, we knew for every day how much profits we made and we increased the bankruptcy mass. And nothing happened at the company, we did business normally, and we didn't stop production hours. The workers were given decisions, some of them were surpluses, and a thousand 600 were left at work. They received two decisions, one on bankruptcy termination, the other on continuation. When we found out about the bankruptcy, it was divided into two thousand and 400 decisions, and once again so many, those who continued to work there were, I don't know, a thousand and 800. Everything was prepared exactly, everything was going exactly. Then we continued production. The bankruptcy didn't do anything, he was collecting the claims as many as he did and so on. Then there was an agreement with creditors that converted their claims or retained their claims and promised to settle them. The process was carried out in a very coordinated, very precise way, with great competitiveness and profitable business, a thousand 600 people had jobs, we provided enough orders, enough material. Those who invested during the proceedings acquired larger shares and lasted six months when the "Planika in bankruptcy" was deleted and remained Planika, did business without problems, financially consolidated and business normally. I think that this was another such major case in Slovenia, but they were gone. When I came to Mura, I thought it would be possible to do something like that. Nothing could be done. That's where all the procedures went, and so on. Very little is needed in these legislations, the bankruptcy would come, find out who the creditors of the company are, and then enable as quickly as possible the transfer of ownership of the previous owners to new ones, that is to say creditors, and also actually and physically enable them to take over the company, it is said to present their leaders and take care of their claims they have, and with good work the company goes forward, clean up the business, have the opportunity to give more people out of the company, because otherwise you can't give them, kill you. And by doing so, the company is cleaned up, further business is ensured, the bankruptcyer is dismissed, because they are new owners, there is no longer a need for bankruptcy. This is one of the variants that my colleague had in mind, but it's possible. Even in enforcement procedures certain things are possible, simple. Of course, we complicate things to the extent that no one else knows and knows, except speculators who are well prepared. I find it terrible when we start talking about a forced settlement, we get experts who for 70, 100,000 euros immediately prepare a proposal for a forced settlement, there is no problem, 'here you will write all of this off, but in the end there will be so much profit, instead of 10 million losses, there will be ten million profits' when they all blur. Then we start the revised balance sheets, these are all mandatory procedures and when the programme is ready, and then this debate is about achieving that quorum that this forced settlement is being voted on. There's a bunch of people in here who serve, but there's very few who'd care if the company got in trouble to move on. When I look at this list, I'm getting my hair up, but how many of these companies that are practically in an impossible financial situation are talking about a credit crunch. After all, those who have spent money in this way and in this way in these companies are guilty. Let them save their money for this bank, why we're the only ones who'll be "furthering" them with the taxpayer's money, let them come to these companies first and ensure that they manage and manage this money once again, but not just write it off and so on. These are things that need to be done and I don't think we need to do them for a long time, that we don't have to discuss which law, that it's a waste of time to waste by doing this and correcting these articles, because we won't even do 5% of what I think needs to be done, even due to procedural matters. Therefore, I propose that we reject it and order it to be settled quickly. It is absolutely essential that we change something here very quickly and that everything that is on the way is not going to fail, that at least some of it will be left behind. In fact, red tape loses jobs when, under normal conditions, people are able to operate positively in normal credit situations. Of course, where everything is lost, no one can help. But there are a lot of things that are lost because of the stupidity of managers, because of the stupidity and greed of banks that have invested too much money in these things. Let them take responsibility for what they do not always pay for what others do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Get ready, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u78	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think that bankruptcy legislation is one of the key necessary fundamental reforms, and it is also one of those responsible for the problems the economy and businesses are in now. The existing legislation is too extensive and should be simplified, as it does not lead anywhere, that the current legislation covers about 400 pages and that it loses everyone. Above all, this is exploited by debtors, who then reduce bankruptcy and damage creditors through long-term procedures. We know that this legislation came to the table by the former government. I am absolutely not going to support these procedures, not because the previous government has proposed it, but because this legislation does not offer comprehensive solutions to address it. The new law should be based primarily on three segments: protecting creditors, speeding up and simplifying procedures and preventing business exhaustion. The key issue which is at stake in this proposed law is that the instrument of enforcement is again being reduced, i.e. at the expense of creditors. I myself am absolutely in favour of the rescue of companies, but they must not be saved at the expense of creditors. I don't understand the Chamber of Commerce agreeing to such a proposal. I myself am much more inclined to the position of the Chamber of Commerce. I will repeat the words of Vice-President Grossar: "Those who support such a solution to the forced settlement, give me 100,000 euros, and I will return them to you in 8 years 40,000." There's probably no hero here who would accept such an offer. But this includes existing legislation: again at the expense of creditors to save businesses. I do not think that any correction in this legislation will work unless there is an opportunity for the administration to be replaced immediately when insolvency proceedings occur and for creditors to put it in place. The trustees are those who are obliged to do so, but the existing owners can, for example, be allowed 25, 30 days to recapitalise or resolve the matter, if not, but the creditors have the opportunity to change claims, conversions to equity. This is how it works abroad, and there is an important speed of procedures, as things need to be done immediately. Once again, I appeal to the Government, to the Minister of Justice – probably the Minister for Economic Affairs – to prepare this matter as soon as possible so that it is particularly friendly to creditors, not to protect debtors. It would also make sense to include elements of criminal offences, criminal law, in this legislation. In the event that creditors are not paid less than 50 % of the bankruptcy weight, the existing management shall be prosecuted for this penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, another modest anarchic opinion. In fact, when an entity enters a compulsory settlement or bankruptcy, it moves from the economic sphere to the judicial sphere and to the interference of the judicial authorities. This means that we can adopt such laws if we continue with the practice that justice has been implementing so far, in fact these matters will be dealt with very slowly. The practice that I myself know well because I have spent my entire life working in the economy is such that some standard receptions are maintained. Regardless of the economic crisis, there are no different practices regardless of social problems. So it's going terribly slowly. Contrary to the majority opinion of the coalition, I believe that the proposed amendment has more positive than negative salaries, precisely because of the things I have mentioned. The rapporteur of our group has already said that these things can also be improved with some corrections, but in particular that we urgently need to maintain all jobs today. Because even if because of the lack of insolvency legislation or legislation that regulates this subject, companies are too quickly bankrupt or may have healthy cores, they may even have programs and markets, and this is often the case. These things, which have been concerns, relate mainly to those companies that derive from the ownership of the so-called social property, from companies that come from a private initiative or where the owners of the people who created these companies themselves are also often in difficulty. There are some of these cases between us. However, I don't think I know an entrepreneur who wants to destroy his business to harm himself. I want to say that there is no pattern here, that this is not some kind of speculation when it comes to various receptions, such or otherwise, including by means of this legislation, with coerced forces, and so on, setting up some way of exhausting businesses or other ways of weakening property. I think that, at this point in time, when the economy should have priority when economic measures should also take precedence over these austerity measures, which cut both into this social state, we have no doubts about speed, we have no doubts about temporaryity, and so on, that we somehow leave the matter to go on. I do not object to the Ministry or government preparing a new law. Let him make a better law than the present one, but I think that the things that are in this novel are in some way helping to save the economy. I would therefore suggest that, as has been said, amendments should be put in place again through the home working bodies to improve the proposal, which should only be adopted and that the government should prepare a better and new law as a matter of priority. I'll be happy to vote for both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. It is time for the debate, I see a few absent colleagues and colleagues. Mag. Branko Grimes. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Romana Tomc checked out. Mrs. Jasmina Opec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. We all agree that our country, our economy, needs swift action. However, every law we adopt in this national assembly cannot be its own purpose, but it must bring solutions that will actually make their lives and their work easier for the entities to be covered by the law. The adoption of a new law on financial transactions, insolvency procedures and compulsory settlement against our tradesmen and entrepreneurs to which this law actually applies would be an irresponsible act on our part. In finding the right solutions in the area of insolvency, we need to listen to the comments, the proposals of those directly involved in the legislation and the solutions that will actually benefit the Slovenian economy and will not harm anyone, put anyone in despair or, as we have already heard today, even worse. Our aim must be to draw up legislation that will be effective, that will be fair and that will ultimately be believed by those who are also enacting certain legislation. I believe that the Ministry, in cooperation and with the support of both chambers, both economic and business, will draw up legislation that will ultimately help the Slovenian economy and preserve jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stanko Stepišnik, prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President Renata, for your word. I don't understand any more. The economy is in an extremely difficult situation, this situation is being passed on to the public sector, to the social sector, and there, when something can be done, we do not want to do anything. It's a company block. More than 2,000 entities have been blocked for months. This is said to have reduced the maturity of the liabilities. The smaller it is, the more our economic operators are taking to insolvency. Insolvency means you're no longer able to pay your debts. This insolvency can arise, not as some think, only with tycoons, thieves, thieves and so on, insolvency can arise for various reasons. Such reasons are also not to blame — whether the market situation deteriorates, the market becomes war, its frame is cut off or invested in investment, or whether it has been underinvested in development and research. When the company is insolvent, it must be assisted if it has sound technological cores, if it has products on a competitive market, if the technological level of these products is so large that it is possible to make these products even more competitive with little money. However, there seems to be no real will to solve these problems. Because of this critical situation, it is essential for such companies with sound technological cores to help maintain jobs. It's not in the first place what some of you say as attorneys at the Chamber of Commerce to protect creditors. But the job is to keep jobs. By maintaining jobs, we will preserve, if you want, suppliers, creditors and so on. Today's solution, which was proposed for creditors to get paid 30% in four years because a company that has lost so much and so much blood, is not able to do so before and we cannot kill it, and 70% of the claims go into an ownership structure that changes, the capital structure changes, the ability of the company to obtain enough credit and money for future business, and this new ownership structure can also be replaced by an administration through the assembly. Everything you've said is proposed. One, two amendments to this law, and I think we could save a lot of businesses. Otherwise, we'll have a lot of bankruptcy by June. Our Slovenian companies are over-indebted. Data compared to Europe is frightening. This happened because of rapid growth, and then the recession hit. And today there's a lot of businesses before they're insolvent. Unless we do something quickly, it will happen to us that the decline in the number of jobs in the real sector will be faster than it has been before. You know, it went down from 490 thousand to 420 thousand, and in the public sector, it went up a little bit. I don't know where the country will get money in this budget if we don't keep jobs. And keeping a job is cheaper than creating a new job. There are many words spoken, if we build new jobs with high added value. Whoever has ever established such a job knows how difficult this is. How much energy has to be invested, how much development and research, money has to be invested to create two, three, five new jobs. And we've had the unemployed for 115 grand. I think we should continue to discuss this law, complement it, and then prepare it in peace, if you have better solutions than this, a new law that will be much better for the creditors, that is to say that they will be paid more than 100%, that all jobs will be preserved and everyone will be fine. If you refuse this law, we will face severe bankruptcy. These numbers, as I said, are growing, 2,000 entities in February 2012. Then we have calculated risk points that are so low that they show a trend that in one year almost 20% of our economic operators will be in insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. And this law is proposed precisely because the current 50 % recovery of claims is not effective because no insolvent debate or proceedings have ended differently than bankruptcy. I ask you, coalition, this is good for you, support such a law and debate so that we can preserve jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Han is not here. It's the proposaler's turn, this is the government. Mr. Minister, Dr. Senko Plitcanic, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! A few brief thoughts for the end. The desire and purpose or my plan is to draw up a good legal framework that will actually allow the restructuring of those companies that are in charge of survival. In this proposed novel, there are quite a few good solutions, but I also consider that there are many other options for improving this legal regime. We would also like this law to be in line with all those key actors working in this area, not only the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but also with some others who have expressed opposition in this process of adoption. Therefore, it is also my view that it is best to reject this amendment and then prepare it as soon as possible in a broader and more comprehensive manner, and in particular a harmonised legal regime in this area, which will in fact be able to function better in practice than it has been so far. So the whole series of marriage solutions that have so far been in force and that have wanted to make up for this amendment to a certain extent have been such that they have not worked well in practice. I fully agree with the opinion of the Member of Positive Slovenia, Mr Misic, who stressed in his implementation that sin should be a bad law in this temple. So the goal that I have is to rectify this law so that it will work in practice and achieve the objective that Mr Stepišnik has been talking about. This means that it will actually enable over-indebted companies to get out of trouble, to recover and not to bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. I find that two of them are reported discussers. Everyone has five minutes. The first one is Mr. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u88	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! Today, we are considering the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and compulsory winding-up of companies. It's fundamental to ask who's insolvent today. If we start at the top, state. Today we have a strike because the state is failing to deal with the law's obligations. That's what you say, everybody. And so insolent to reject this law at first reading, I find it rather irresponsible. Many good suggestions were heard in the National Assembly, but unfortunately we do not hear them. It is usually so that until we experience some personal experience ourselves, we find it difficult to understand certain things. Mr. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik made a wonderful proposal, a good proposal on the basis of which the law should be upgraded and adopted at first reading. Regardless of the opposition's proposal, I believe it is our responsibility to accept all good proposals. I ask what will have to happen if we start listening to people who work in practice who have worked in practice and who understand problems. Not to be copied and read here, and to defend an attitude that is a consequence of, nicely said, some sort of rigid instinct. We're all about to yell at the same horn, and the caravan's moving on. When we introduced the so-called wage reform in 2008, about the same people as today warned that the pay reform was wrong, that we were not rich enough to pay the public sector so well. Today, in fact, we are in a strange situation where those who are the then wage reform, which has also made this country insolvent, are actually saying let's put an end to this pay reform, let's give the public sector as much as possible. Where's ethics and morality? I think it's the etiquette "e" and the moral "m". My proposal is to support this law at first reading, but to make an expert group. We in the National Assembly have at least two experts – there are probably more of you – but I know these two very well, I have talked to them – about the law on companies and also the law that is now under consideration. However, the laws are closely linked and are intended to help relieve the economy and work in the sense that jobs are preserved. They're mags. Stanko Stepišnik and Mr. Bojan Starman. Let us put a third in the expert group and work on the law forward and make legislation that will help to preserve jobs rather than abolish them. Everything else has already been said in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you if anyone can tell me what percentage of the creditors' payments in the bankruptcy of Vegrad were and what percentage of the creditors will be paid in the case of Vegrad. Even in the bankruptcy process, they will be pleased if they can pay, and we destroyed a construction company at a time when we could do it for the sake of legislation. There have been many good proposals here today, I absolutely think that Mr Stepišnik, many of you have spoken exceptionally, all of you, in fact, because we are in Parliament, in the temple of democracy, where we are discussing to ensure the right conditions. This proposal is good because it's the only one, it's no better, because this moment we have to do something, because we're going to have even bigger problems, there's going to be more bankruptcy, there's going to be more people on the road, there's going to be more problems. Mr Vogrin's proposal is not bad either, because it allows us to continue because we can do something better than what it is today, and this is our case. This is not about the left, not the right, not the former, not the present, not the position and not the opposition. It's about workers, about people, about those we should do something about. It's worse than that, actually. And the only suggestion, I believe, is that it should not be worse when we talk about the situation of businesses and the situation of people, workers, insolvency and everything that has been said today, but perhaps with this law, we can make it by correcting this law that it will not go down, that it will stop, that we will be able to maintain a healthy working environment and that the economic situation will also calm down and turn up. This is why creditors are not in this situation when companies are bankrupt, in no better position. Often, even in a worse situation, especially unprotected creditors, those who do not have priority rights, and those who do not. And another problem is, they're in trouble or we're investors. At the time someone went bankrupt, and the subscriber was the one who ordered the investment, we're in very big trouble with investors too. I speak, of course, on behalf of our congregation, where we have been in very great trouble because we have been struggling to secure what we have paid for, our property, because this property goes, if you are not very mature, then it can also be in bankruptcy and therefore it can be a problem. That is why, once again, I support the proposals that have been made here today. By tomorrow, you have the time, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, to change this position that you have expressed today at the vote. And I would ask you, Mr Minister, to say here today before this high assembly, when you will prepare the law and when you will then give the law into the procedure, that we will be able to tell people that we will have a deadline, an anchor to turn to, that we can say that the Slovenian government is a proposal that has been prepared in accordance with the Chamber of Commerce and with someone else, that we will reject along with the coalition, and that it will make an excellent proposal by then. Until then, it means that the matter will be brought to light as it is today. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. It is no longer possible to discuss. Mr. Secretary, with exception, I can give you my word now. [[..]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you. Just a quick answer. I could have said that sooner. Our plan is to take from the existing novel what is right and what has also been found in today's debate to be right and to add other improvements to this system. I have agreed with the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance to work together on this project, and with others, say enforcement and insurance and perhaps more, and we will prepare this as soon as possible. Of course, I cannot define and define the deadline now, but this is certainly one of the priorities that this working group and government will draw up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide tomorrow, 19 April 2012, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on digital radiodifusion. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members, with first-signed Janko Webro, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Procedurally, please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u94	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Given that we know that this government is sitting in Ptuj today and is unable to provide its representatives with individual points as a guide to the Rules of Procedure, and because it has not demonstrated even the minimum dignity for this assembly, I propose that we suspend the meeting and wait for a representative who will continue his work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, some manners and, finally, the parliamentary practice established in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We will take your proposal into account or let you know that the Government has informed us that they will be able to join us within 15 minutes. So at 12:15, we'll resume the session. I'm breaking this point in 15 minutes and we're on at 12:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u96	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act. We were also joined by a government representative. I welcome here Mr Alexander Zorn, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. We are moving on to a complementary explanation of the bill and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia carried out a transition from ground-level analogue to ground-level digital broadcasting in 2010. A strategy and a law on digital broadcasting have been adopted in preparation for this transition. According to the above, the frequency for multiplex A and, above all, the performance of the public service were awarded to Slovenia without invitation to tender. However, for commercial multiplex B, the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia issued a public invitation to tender on which a foreign company was selected as the best bidder. The existing law explicitly allows for public broadcasting on its multiplex, as long as it is the only active multiplex with the geographical coverage of the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the free capacity it provides for the transmission of other TV programs, including commercial TV programs. Such an option was current until multiplex B reached the required coverage and was also used at the time. However, the market situation has not changed, despite the establishment of commercial multiplex B with the required coverage. Commercial TV programmes, contrary to the strategy of transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, remained on multiplex A. In view of the clearer text of the amended Directives in the field of electronic communications from 2009, the provisions of Article 15(1) and (2) of the Digital Broadcasting Act have become controversial, which discusses the possibility of having the free capacity of multiplex distributed without a call for tender, mainly for the purposes of public broadcasting. With regard to the use of multiplex capacity, which was awarded without a call for proposals for the transfer of commercial programmes, the European Commission has already asked us questions. At the same time, the European Commission has already exhausted pre-trial procedures for infringements identified by the non-transfer of the 2009 package of electronic communications directives, which is also linked in the relevant part to the amendment under consideration. The aim of the novel is to harmonise national legislation in the field of digital broadcasting with Directives in the field of electronic communications. At the same time, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the clarity of legislation is improved. It is now clear from the proposal for a new law that the acquisition of frequencies without a call can only relate to the transmission of programme content of public interest and therefore intended for public broadcasting and the transmission of other programmes of particular importance in accordance with the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and the Media Act. Only in these cases can it be an urgent pursuit of public interest that allows frequencies to be obtained without open process and therefore, according to the proposal, the availability of possible free capacities of multiplex A will be possible only for the purposes of the public service and for the transfer of other programmes of particular importance. At the same time, this amendment complements the criminal provisions of the existing law and introduces a transitional provision setting a 30-day deadline for aligning the decision issued for multiplex A with the provisions of this Act. At the same time, a longer, 60-day period is provided for in order to enforce the law so that participants in the market for terrestrial digital broadcasting and, above all, the sector regulator of the Apec are better prepared for the necessary changes. Dear Members and Members, the proposed amendment of the law is urgently needed to comply with the European legal order, to further develop digital terrestrial broadcasting in competitive conditions and to provide a plural media space. On the part of the Government, we propose that you support the bill after the general debate, allowing further consideration of the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much to the representative of the government, Mr. Zorn. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Mrs. Tamara Vonta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Draft proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act is some kind of continuation of playing on the strings of two multiplexes, multiplex A and multiplex B, which was obviously without a proper assessment of the Slovenian market of TV broadcasters prepared and adopted in 2007. As in almost all areas of media development, we have received unusual public-commercial creations. On the multiplex A managed by RTV Slovenia, TV programs Slovenia currently broadcast at national level 1, 2, 3, Pop TV, Channel A, Pink.si and several other programmes at regional level. The government allowed temporary hosting of these programmes on the so-called public multiplex in 2010 and until recently the so-called commercial multi-complex B in the management of the Slovenian Norkgring, which was also established for this and as the best provider, as we have heard, was selected at the international invitation of the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency in December 2008. It is true that he received a 10-year concession, but he gave up when he lost the last company to broadcast on this multiplex. The reason was to be the uncompetitive environment and the non-response of state authorities, and equipment was also to be dismantled. So we're in the middle of a big dilemma. Firstly, the European Directive does provide that a national operator is intended solely for public national broadcasting and not for commercial broadcasting. Secondly, Norkring calls for a competitive environment and for complaints and for applications to the Anti-Corruption Commission. Thirdly, RTV on multiplex generates a significant part of its revenue, which would, according to the new proposal, fall away. These are so-called revenue from market activities which can also be used by public television to co-finance the public service. And fourthly, on the other hand, the capabilities of multiplex for public broadcasting are too large, while they want a new multiplex for HD broadcasting. In short, the confusion is perfect, the interests are different, one bends the hands that there is no competition, the other complains that there is too much space on multiplex, and again there is no space on it, points to and then there is of course a European directive. However, the new proposal does not solve this confusion and does not allow clarification of the situation in this area. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that due to the strong conflicting interests and fights that are fighting in the background, the proposal needs to be complemented. To this proposal, therefore, we are very reserved in Positive Slovenia. It is clear to us that something will have to be done in this area, but this must not cause much damage to the public service. In short, we're being held back to the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vonta. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. Mrs. Matthew Puchnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and honourable Members and representatives of the Government! The purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Digital Broadcasting Act is to harmonise national legislation in the field of digital broadcasting with amendments to Directives in the field of electronic communications. This is an early transposition of Directive 2009/140/EC amending Directives in the field of electronic communications, the transmission of which was provided for in the Law on Electronic Communications and in the Digital Broadcasting Act, as the deadline for the transmission of 25.5.2011 has already expired. The applicant also noted that the provisions of Article 15, paragraph 1 and 2, of the Broadcasting Act, taking into account their use and understanding in practice, became controversial in terms of European secondary law in the field of electronic communications, subject to a lack of clarity. In order to prepare this novel, the applicant has thus decided to comply with the provisions of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, the Media Act and the principle of legal certainty and clarity of regulation, and in particular in order to comply with the legal order of the European Union in this field. The current situation was inappropriate, as RTV Slovenia hosted channels for its competition in the form of commercials in the multi-complex, but there was no room for broadcasting its own HD technology programmes. This is controversial in terms of Slovenian and, in particular, European legal arrangements. The amendment of the law will regulate this area in accordance with European legislation, and an additional space will be opened to enrich the Slovenian media area by broadcasting national RTV Slovenia in HD technology. We will support the new law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter will present her position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group does not support the proposed amendment of the law, but has also proposed that we hold a general debate. We give two sets of reasons, one procedural, the other substantive. We believe that there is no less difficult change and complementarity, nor can a type of procedure be concealed under less difficult alignment with European Union law. We believe that the government's proposal does not follow public interest, but tries to ensure that the government works with the law to the detriment of viewers and viewers to the director of multiplex B Norkring of Norway. This would be a monopolist after the adoption of the proposal, as he would be the only one in the country able to broadcast commercial television programmes. For this purpose, the opinion of the competent institutions should be re-examined as to whether it is acceptable and admissible for the legislator to establish a monopoly in an area administratively and contrary to public interest. And there are substantive reasons. The proposal goes to the detriment of viewers and viewers. These commercial programmes can now be monitored by multiple nationals who have the coverage of virtually the whole area of the country, but if the law is adopted, because of the poor coverage of multiple B programmes, they will be able to monitor fewer viewers, particularly those living in more difficult accessible or deprovified areas. In addition, due to the adoption of such a law, either an increase in the RTV contribution will be necessary, or viewers will receive a worse programme for their money than they have been trained to do before. The radiotelevision of Slovenia, by transferring commercial programmes through its broadcasters, deserves additional funds, which will be lost if the law is adopted. It is therefore a fact that the adoption of the bill prevents any competition on the digital broadcasting market. In addition, a number of questions remain open at the time the operator of the second multiplex withdraws from the market. Let's say, what about the frequency spectrum? What about commercial stations that are not allowed to broadcast on the first multiplex? What is the strategy for further development of digital broadcasting? A potential solution could be the establishment of a third multiplex to ensure at least minimal competitiveness. The third multiplex could justify its operation by broadcasting programs in HD resolution, because on multiplex you occupy more space. The question, however, is whether the proposed solution is appropriate when one monopolies is replaced by another monopolies. So what are the arguments why we do not support the law? As it is said, the government creates a monopoly on privacy. Indeed, the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia states that the introduction of new multiplexes for digital broadcasting on the released part of the spectrum sets the goal of 4 to 5 multiplexes for TV in standard and high resolution in 2011. Among multiplex operators, competition should be developed, they say; but Private Norkring, director of another multiplex, has already announced leaving the country or has even begun to dismantle equipment, and the law provides that the Apek must harmonise the decision on frequency allocation within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. In view of the forecasts presented, it can therefore be concluded that within 30 days of the entry into force of the new commercial station they will not even have the possibility of broadcasting on another multiplex. I therefore ask the Government whether it will propose any additions to the proposal as appropriate, or whether it will prepare amendments. We have already mentioned that the adoption of the law is not in the interest of viewers and viewers due to reduced access to programmes. Last but not least, it takes a million EUR 200 000 a year for nationals it acquires from market activities. And one last argument. Multiple B is free to operate on the market, multiplex A is not. The Commission for Culture, Science, Education and Sport in the State Council is also opposed to the proposed amendment to the law. It is also questionable whether an article of the directive, which, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is supposed to prevent the hosting of commercial providers on a multiplex intended for public service, can be truly understood only as explained by the Government. Let me get this. Certain changes to allow further development of digital broadcasting are necessary, but the monopolisation of commercial broadcasting is certainly not the right way. In the Slovenian frequency area, conditions for the operation of competition should be ensured and it would therefore be appropriate for Apek to publish a tender for the third multiplex as soon as possible. Last but not least, the competent ministry announced the effort to publish as soon as possible. The technological breakthrough in high resolution will also require a third multiplex. We therefore feel that the novel is not appropriate and that is what we will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much, mag. Spending. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Gregor Virant, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u105	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act solves the situation in very partial terms and damages all broadcasters of TV programmes currently placing their programmes in multiplex and for the multiplex A operator. The proposal for the Digital Broadcasting Act removes the possibility of marketing free capacity, which brings a significant loss of income, and that Slovenia is a division of Broadcasters and Links from this title – or. removes one of the system funding sources of TV Slovenia and its public service. It also has a strong impact on the currently competitive operator market, as it removes it and introduces a monopoly in this area. Commercial programmes will depend on one single operator who, by amending the law, acquires a monopoly position and all the negative features associated with it, this is poorer quality and higher prices. In the event of the adoption of a proposal for a novel, another multiplex should be put in place in order to maintain competition before the amendment of the law has been implemented, which, given the well-known number of TV broadcasters ready for digital terrestrial broadcasting, would make no sense and would constitute a very irrational consumption of the spectrum. The law should regulate the field of digital multiplex operations in the best possible way for all broadcasters, and as a result, viewers also benefit the most. With the adoption of the proposal, only the public service programme would be broadcast on the multiplex A and the spare capacity would be untapped, which would be an irrational use of this part of the frequency spectrum. Examples from other European countries, such as Croatia, Austria, Hungary, Latvia, show that commercial programmes are also being broadcast on the first multiplex, which also has the greatest coverage of the country. This is the most favourable way for all publishers and it is also provided for in the current legislation. To date, the legal regime is optimal for a small Slovenian market and allows the transition to digital broadcasting for both TV Slovenia and others. We believe that because of the wrong decision and the subsequent business policy of a foreign operator, it is not necessary to amend the Digital Broadcasting Act in the proposed way. In the event of changes, we should also take into account the meaningful amendment to Article 15, paragraph 1 – the restriction on one multiplex for TV Slovenia – and paragraph 4 – the prohibition of candidateing for multiplex B and the need to present another multiplex for the establishment of competition. Article 15 of the Act now in force is clearly in line with Article 2(5) of Directive 2002/20/EC, since it allows radio frequencies to be allocated without open tendering procedures in the event of a general interest objective. The general interest in the award of TV Slovenia's frequency for multiplex A was and is still unequivocally demonstrated, since already the operation of TV Slovenia is primarily in the public interest, as is clear from the law on TV Slovenia and the law on media. However, the fact is that Directive 2002/20/EC does not prevent, in the public interest, also commercial programmes from being broadcast on a multiplex awarded without a call for tender. It should even be noted that the directive does not prevent only commercial programmes from being broadcast on multiplex, which was awarded without a call for tender, but only as part of the achievement of the general interest objective. The second point of Article 5 of the Directive even explicitly states that the Directive is without prejudice to the criteria and procedures adopted by Member States to grant rights to use radio frequencies of service providers. In view of the fact that, under the current rules of TV Slovenia can market free capacity, such a criterion of use of radio frequency is undoubtedly in line with that Directive. Thus, the Directive cannot be the reason for the adoption or amendment of Article 15 of the Digital Broadcasting Act. The applicant states in his explanation that the provisions of Article 15(1) and (2), taking into account their use and understanding, have become controversial in practice in terms of European secondary law in the field of electronic communications, subject to a lack of clarity. It is clear that the provision in the law is not controversial, but that it is a controversial application and understanding, so it does not have to be amended and only implemented correctly. It is also very unusual that the proposed amendment should be adopted in May 2011, and we accept it with a one-year delay and wonder why it has not been adopted so far. The proposal clearly states that the proposed law could have a short-term negative impact on the economy in terms of limiting competition and also on TV Slovenia in commercial activities. We would expect that the state administration in this country would operate in accordance with the principle of 'and depth for Patria' and not in terms of allowing a high-income monopoly to a foreign company to the detriment of the national public agency TV Slovenia, as this will make it impossible for it to engage in commercial activities and thus the resulting revenue to the detriment of domestic media companies, because the monopoly will make them forced to have significantly higher costs on multiplex B, and to the detriment of some 400 000 of our viewers in demographically endangered areas, who will no longer see the current programmes on multiplex B. Members of the Civil Code will only decide definitively after the completion of the public hearing whether the proposed amendment of the law is appropriate for the continuation of the debate on the home committee, but only on a clear condition that the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications shall immediately sign a concession for the establishment of at least a multiplex C, thereby allowing for competition and clarifying all open issues in the field of digital broadcasting and the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u107	Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I give the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Digital Broadcasting Act. As the drafter explains, this law is aimed at harmonising the law with the law of the European Union in the field of digital broadcasting. Further harmonisation will be carried out in the field of the Law on Electronic Communications, which will bring about integrated and overall coherence with the European Directive. The directive in question, which regulates the common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services, should have been transposed into our legal order a year ago. We have already been reminded of the delay, and payment of the penalty may still take place. However, we must not ignore the danger of the company's action, which has built another broadcasting network for the purpose of digital broadcasting. According to the explanation of the bill, Article 15 of the current Digital Broadcasting Act in practice became controversial in terms of European rules on the free market and competition. In Slovenia there are two networks for the transmission of digital RTV. So we are talking about multiplex A and multiplex B. The latter at the time of transition from analogue to digital broadcasting was not ready, so it was somehow agreed that commercial programmes could remain in multiple A managed by RTV and that it was intended to play national programmes and programmes of particular importance. Public RTV still hosts its commercial competition on its network today at lower prices than the private network provider is able to offer. The main amendment to the amendment to the law is that the frequencies that have been made available to public broadcasters for public interest are also used for public service purposes in accordance with the law governing public broadcasting and for the purposes of ensuring the transmission of other programmes of particular importance to the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the law governing the media. The amendment of the Digital Broadcasting Act, according to our assessment, does not only mean that we respect the acquis of the European Union, to which we are committed, but also gives a clear message to foreign investors that our country will treat them properly. As soon as multiplex B comes to life, it is possible to approach the issuance of a new call for third, possibly also the fourth broadcast network, and this means that competition will also be ensured. The future change will also allow viewers to monitor public television programmes in HD technology, which has so far been possible only with the additional costs of ordering cable or IP TV providers. In our Group of Members, we agree that the situation must be changed, that this does not ultimately lead to a European legal order, so we agree that the amendment is to be further considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mrs Jasmine Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u109	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that today's general debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act will clear up some of the dilemmas and provide answers to some of the controversial questions raised with regard to this law. The essential solution proposed in the amendment of the Digital Broadcasting Act is the prohibition of hosting commercial television programmes on the Radio Television of Slovenia network or on the so-called multiplex A network, since the multiplex B, which was built with private capital and is intended exclusively for commercial television programmes, is virtually untapped due to the current regulation. For some, including Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed solution is fully understandable, especially if it is to comply with competition law of the European Union and Slovenia is, for failure to comply with this right before the European Commission's action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In 2009, Directive 2009/140/EC was adopted, which radically amended certain Directives in the field of electronic communications, which also covers the field of digital broadcasting. The deadline for the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, which would require amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Digital Broadcasting, was 25 May 2011, and Slovenia has not adopted the first or the second to date. For this reason, we are at risk of being brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union because, according to some information, the European Commission is just before bringing an action against Slovenia. The answers and reasoned opinions of the Slovenian Government to the Commission, why we have not yet transposed these changes into our legal order, are no longer dependent. It must therefore be brought into line as soon as possible. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act eliminates the division of multiplex, which is intended for public and private broadcasting, since the so-called multiplex A, which has been used to ensure a successful transition to digital television broadcasting and hosting all Slovenian commercial television programmes, is no longer the only multiplex in Slovenia, so the provision of Article 15 of the law, which is being amended by the proposed amendment, is no longer necessary. At the same time, it was also built by the Norwegian company Norkring in order to market frequencies for commercial television programmes. However, the frequencies on multiplex B remained virtually unscathed; two months ago, the only TV program that hosted the network of this multiplex, TV3, left it. All other providers of commercial TV programs preferred to host on multiplex A, as public RTV allowed them more favourable roaming conditions, on the basis of which commercial programme providers also have greater profits. The television signal of multiplex A covers 98% of the total territory in the country, while the coverage of multiplex B is approximately 89%, which is still significantly more than the coverage of commercial programme providers, namely PRO PLUS, prior to the transition to digital broadcasting. The coverage with the analogue signal was around 60%. It is obvious that the providers of commercial TV programs are determined by the 9% difference in coverage with the signal provided on multipx A. It is clear, therefore, that public RTV has enabled commercial programs hosting its multiplex, which, by the way, was built from public funds, significantly increased ratings and thus a significant increase in advertising revenues. In the meantime, RTV itself suffers from a constant decline in the share of ratings and advertising funds. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed amendment of the digital broadcasting law opens the door to a more competitive environment in the field of digital broadcasting. We are convinced that the frequencies used by public television for the public interest must actually be in use for the public service, i.e. for the provision of public television programmes and other programmes of particular importance. However, the commercial network must be clearly separated from this and properly regulated by the competent regulator. As misleading, we also state that due to the reduction of coverage by digital signal, viewers will be deprived of certain commercial programmes, thereby violating the constitutional right to information. This is not true, since this right is guaranteed by public service programmes, i.e. with programmes on multiplex A. In addition, coverage with the signal of multiplex B is very high, almost 30% higher, than coverage with the signal of commercial programs at the time of analogue TV broadcasting, which still brings a lot of high advertising profits to commercial broadcasters. For all of this, and in particular due to the fact that Slovenia is just ahead of the European Commission's action, we support the continuation of the procedure for the proposed amendment to the Digital Broadcasting Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, thereby giving the legislative proposal an opportunity to improve before its final adoption and thus at least temporarily appease the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the case of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act, it is mainly a matter of harmonising national legislation with European legislation, stressing that it is already time-consumingly late. In this respect, it makes sense that the amendment or amendment of the law is adopted in the context of a reduced procedure. In this regard, it should also be pointed out that due to the relative smallness of the Slovenian media space and to some other specifics that apply to our space, certain professional circles believe that legal changes may also have a negative impact on the current situation. For example, the potential monopoly role of the individual provider in the use of radio frequencies for the provision of electronic communications services in the field of market activity may be detrimental. The bill is of the opinion that this is not the case and also draws attention to potential wrong decisions in recent years in this area. It therefore proposes solutions to prevent any negative effects. In particular, the second paragraph of Article 15 of the draft law provides for an amendment which, together with the provisions of the Law on RTV Slovenia and the Law on Media, at least in the opinion of the Government, will deal with the issues at issue in the sense that this will be in the spirit of those laws, namely the Law on Media and the Law on RTV. It is likely that this can be confirmed to some extent, since the second paragraph of Article 15 of the proposal in fact provides that public television can, with the free capacity of multiplex in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 15 of the proposal, freely dispose of the needs of the public service, but must in any event take into account the prohibition of discrimination. From the point of view of the national communities, it is important that the solutions be professionally good and correct, but with regard to the proposed text of the law there are currently no specific specifics or problems that would require specific measures from a national point of view. Otherwise, in the case of content related to digital broadcasting, it is a rather complex, rapidly changing area, so we think it makes sense, at least if we understand correctly that the Government is preparing a new, more comprehensive law or new solutions in this area. In this context, possible uncertainties and contentious issues can be further addressed. Finally, let me stress that we hope that the text in the process of adopting this law can be upgraded. We are therefore likely to vote in favour of the proposal that this bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u112	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! It is my opinion that so written a law on digital broadcasting should not come to Parliament in such a content. It is about the fact that we are legislating this law to the Norwegian company Norkring, which has three employees in Slovenia and will in fact generate one million Euros of profits on Pop TV, which can only be broadcast through the Norkring network, and at the expense of Channel A and other commercial television houses that operate in our space. A very unusual decision, which dates back to 2004-2008, namely the first mandate of the Janša government, and was apparently already agreed at the time that, through the network of Radiotelevisions of Slovenia, commercial stations are not allowed to broadcast but can broadcast via a private network, which is owned by a Norwegian company. If it were not for such high profits, but if RTV had not been excluded from the possibility of applying for further invitations to multiplexes which could still be awarded in Slovenia, then one would understand that there is a need to somehow separate public-privately, but the fact is that this divorce means a monopoly of one network before another. And if we are talking here about depriving Radiotelevision Slovenia of significant income, then I really don't know what the interest of the National National Assembly or the Government is to intervene so dramatically in this field of the media. The particular problem that I see in this is why we have to punish some 200,000 households in Slovenia, which, if this law is adopted, will not be able to access the signal of Pop TV, Channel A and other commercial television stations that will broadcast through Norkring. Incomprehensible decision: RTV Slovenia has a covered network of practically 99%, Norkring somewhere 83%. And why should I support this marriage? There is no reason why I could support this law, let alone discuss it in the following cases, i.e. in the second and third readings, because, in fact, if we deprive a large part of the territory in Slovenia, this is usually a rural area, these are border areas, so that they do not have access to Pop TV and Channel A, and that on the other hand, we allow exceptional income, a million euros in profits to some foreign society in this area, while at the same time we are also pooring Slovenian commercial stations, is really confused by any logic or far from what I would suggest to support such a law. I really hope that the majority of Members and Members of Parliament will decide that this law is not suitable for further consideration and that, after all, we will allow at least wider or virtually throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but that access to the widest possible range of television stations is available, so that they can also create their own views on what is appropriate, what is not good, and if they do not want to forget too much about what is reported in the political field, they can at least watch a film that can be watched via Pop TV or Channel A. In short, the poverty of access to the viewership of the Slovenian population in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly something that, in my opinion, should never be written in any law that would come to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor to prepare Mr Roberto Battelli and then Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u115	Your Honor! Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. The main problem with the proposed novel is that it introduces an unacceptable monopoly. If we look at how comparatively legal this is arranged in comparable countries, we can find that, for example, Britain has six multiplexes, Finland three, Austria two multiplexes, by still broadcasting also analogue, Italy two, by broadcasting also in analogue technique, France five multiplex, plus analogue, Slovenia after implementing the proposed novel only multiplex B and no competition. In Slovenia, there is room for eight multiplexes, according to both the government strategy and technical capabilities, with only two. The strategy I am talking about, the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, was adopted by the Government on 16 February 2006. According to the timeline of this strategy, multiplex C and multiplex D should be divided or established at the beginning of 2011. I wonder why this strategy has not yet been implemented or why such a delay has not been implemented. The investment in multiplex B, in the whole project, was estimated at a million and a half euros, and the annual rent that Norkring would achieve in this case on multiplex B, of course with full employment, would amount to two and a half million euros. Let's see how big the profits are here. By comparison, the cost of Croatian multiplex is 3.7 times lower than the cost of Slovenian multiplex. The Croatian price is 1.70 euros per megabyte per second per thousand population and in Slovenia it is 6.40. If we look at the comparison between the costs of multiplex A and multiplex B and coverage and other parameters that are extremely important in this case, we find that Norkring has coverage of around 83% of households and TV Slovenia has 99%. Norkring 26 transmitters, TV Slovenia 160. As it is said, such a monopoly, or transition of all to multiplex B, would have affected people or viewers in particular in demographically endangered areas, and there are certainly more than 200,000 of them. I would not take the invitation to tender or question the invitation to tender on the basis of which Norkring came to this multiplex, this is a matter of other authorities, so I would not deal with it, but I would certainly stress once again that if this novel was to be processed to the end and that it will be enforced, we will come to an unacceptable monopoly. However, as far as the excuses are concerned to simply implement the commitments of the European Union Directives are concerned, I do not think that this is the case. In fact, I would also like to see these various threats by the European Commission. We've never had that, and I can doubt it. And finally, we protect our viewers, we protect public television, we protect people in a demographically threatened area, because we will take them here, of course we will also take our home media houses, which are expected to pay higher broadcast costs on multiplex B. In this sense, let us work in a country-efficient manner, doing everything we can to create competition. As a condition, this novelty could pass today's debate or be put into a follow-up process if we get a clear commitment that multiplex C will be in due course or until the final adoption, but it will be granted and competition will be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Batelli here, so Mr Joseph Kavtičnik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many times in recent times, and we are likely to be able to do more in the coming days because Europe is imposing this on us. We are here in the Slovenian Parliament, we must strive to create the best possible conditions for the lives of our people, our institutions, for our companies and also for everyone living in this space. Therefore, I will not support the proposed law because I do not intend to be present when we give another blow to Slovenian radio television. Most Member States of the European Union adapt their requirements or their lives and their legislation to European requirements. Why shouldn't we, even though we are small, but I think our voice can also be heard and taken into account in Europe, so that we can also adapt certain legislation to our needs, to our market, to our small market, which has certain specifics. It is therefore right for us to give our institutions the opportunity, as is now Radiotelevision, to generate some income, some added value, because then money will be allocated for better programmes, to reduce the costs and contributions that citizens and citizens have to pay. Otherwise, the price of watching these programmes will certainly rise or the quality of the programmes will decrease. That is why I do not want to participate in this and will oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk only, you have the floor for Mr. Jank Weber. The next one is Mrs. Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! With effect from 1 December 2010, Slovenia switched from the Digital Broadcasting Act to the digital broadcasting programme. After initial problems, residents and residents have been able to learn a number of benefits from the transition; the possibility of introducing new technologies, more extensive programme offers and better image and sound quality are only some of them. By digitisation, the population and the inhabitants of the geographically more difficult accessible areas have finally gained opportunities to monitor popular commercial television programmes in a decent image and sound quality. It seems that the possibility of watching popular films, sequels, shows and sports events, which can only be monitored on commercial televisions, for the part of the viewers and viewers, was only temporary. In the event of the adoption of a proposal for a new law on broadcasting, part of Slovenia will be deprived of access to three television programmes. Some estimates suggest that the measure will affect 30,000 households. However, if the operator of the second multiplex realizes his announcements of departure from Slovenia, there will be 200 000 households. Let me point out that a few days ago, on Sunday 15 April, the operator of the second multiplex published a message on his website that on 2 April 2012 he started dismantling the broadcasting equipment in his network. From this it can be concluded that the operator of the second multiplex is leaving Slovenia. Such behaviour therefore raises a number of concerns about the relevance of the continuation of the procedure, since by adopting the proposal and assuming that the operator of the second multiplex would stop the activity, commercial television would make it impossible to broadcast over this mode of transmission. The result of the adoption of the new law will be the deterioration of the availability of television programmes, which is one reason why the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be supported. Another reason is the incomprehensibility of the conduct by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes care of the performance of the business model of a private company and provides it with a consciously monopolistic position on the market. Moreover, by doing so it also causes business damage to the manager of the first multiplex public institution RTV Slovenia, established by the State. RTV Slovenia generates more than a million euros of income per year through the provision of free capacity. In addition, indications that the inclusion of commercial televisions in the broadcast on the first multiplex was considered from the outset only as a temporary measure do not hold. The explanation of the 2007 proposal, which was also sent to the National Assembly at that time by the Janšev government, states that the issue of public RTV Slovenia's business decision will be available as soon as the second multiplex is put in place. According to the right-centre coalition, the public RTV Slovenia has lost its business capacity in these five years, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is implementing it itself instead. Last but not least, it took over this function through a decision prohibiting the conclusion of copyright and advisory contracts and then successfully upgraded it with the illegal criminalisation of the work of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council. The role of editing is already taken over by the ministerial assembly, and the list of unwanted shows is published publicly in the newspaper of the largest government party and on its tweet. The proposal for a law providing the private sector with a monopoly, viewers and viewers with a television eclipse and a public institution with the loss of the necessary resources to carry out activities in the public interest cannot, of course, be supported. I will therefore vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you, too. Mrs Polonca Komar has the word and the next will be Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to express some of my concerns from this point of view when adopting the proposal for a new law. The proposed amendment aims to harmonise national legislation in the field of digital broadcasting with amendments to Directives in the field of electronic communications. The fact is that we have two multiplexes of two different operators in Slovenia. Their joint capacities are too large for the current needs of Slovenian TV broadcasters. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act solves the situation in very partial terms, while it is not clear what possible damage this amendment will cause to all broadcasters of TV programs currently broadcasting their programmes in multiplex A and to the multiplex operator A RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a new law removes the possibility of marketing free capacity on multiplex A, which, at the same time, certainly results in the loss of RTV Slovenia's income, but above all there is a fear that by interfering with the operational market it allows the creation of a monopoly in this area. In order to maintain competition after the adoption of the proposal for a new law, additional multiplexes should be described and multiplex A should only be broadcast by a public service programme and free capacity on this multiplex would not be used. At the same time, I am also wondering about the potential damage that viewers and viewers would suffer, which we are depriving of by amending this law to view some of the programmes. It is mainly those citizens and citizens who live in areas not covered by multiplex B. I therefore expect concrete solutions that will ensure competitiveness, which will not interfere with the revenues of the public institution RTV Slovenia and which will provide viewers and viewers with equal access to television programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Ambrožič, please, and Mr Mirko Brulc will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, and welcome to all present! In Positive Slovenia, we are aware that the European Directive requires the regulation of this open issue, but we do not believe that the proposed law or proposal, which we will first vote on, is the amendments and additions to the Digital Broadcasting Act, offers adequate solutions because of the many shortcomings highlighted today, so I will abstain from voting myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Brulc, and the next is Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u125	A lot of technical explanations have been said today. I'm just asking if this law would already apply, would you watch Chelsea's soccer game tonight: Barcelona or 200,000 people in Slovenia would not see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, please. Mr. Ivan Grill's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, respectable Mr. Zorn! The question is: What are the reasons for the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce the revenue of public broadcasting by a million EUR 200 000? With this related question: How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to replace the lack of Radiotelevision of Slovenia? What are the reasons for us to take this direction, to actually introduce, if we say, a monopoly to someone and at the same time reduce the income of our radiotelevision and reduce the ratings of all those who have been satisfied with these services? We should make sure that viewers get a better picture, that coverage is even greater, and that they do not harm the public service. That is why I do not think I can support this; that it is actually a matter of privatisation and that I do not see these reasons. However, I think we respect European legislation, but it is not right to do so to the detriment of our institutions. Another issue will be raised in terms of ratings, which may not be on the agenda today, but in terms of the population and the population in the more remote areas, it will be extremely important. Of course, it is also for other televisions, for other networks that are still needed in some way and that even regional televisions or local televisions, if we say so, can carry out their mission, because often the information of residents and residents in areas outside the centre of Slovenia depends on how much information we get at these local television stations and other stations. So I feel that this too should be considered or kept in check. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Grill among us, so I give the floor to the next debate, mag. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The fundamental reasons why the Social Democrats oppose the adoption of this amendment of the law have already been clarified, but let me remind you that the proposal for the amendment of the law has been prepared, and that when we as the largest government party have also had the opportunity to decide what to include in the government procedure or in the national assembly procedure and what not, we have not decided. The reasons why we did not do so were explained by the former minister, not only that the government of Borut Pahor had no more majority at the time, but also, above all, the concerns expressed by Dr Igor Lukšič at the time of the introduction of this novel. Therefore, the reasons remain the same, they have been mentioned many times, but it is interesting what lies behind the urgency with which it was. The fact is that, in the previous term, the threat of lawsuits and damages that Slovenia should pay did not convince the opposition that it would support any legislative proposals which, by the way, also reached the area of media law. As a Member, I note that the media are very interesting to the various stakeholders, and it is not surprising to me that we sometimes have such very different views on these issues, but one would expect that if a minister claims that there is a need to defend competition, then one feels least strange if not something else, to make and defend the novelty of the law, which reduces and opens up the space to monopolies. That's the first question I've been asked. Secondly, why did the same minister in his statement also reveal when he was talking about hosting commercial programmes on multiplex A, to be financed or to be financed from an RTV contribution when it is quite clear that he was being financed from development funds. By the way, a decision was adopted at the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which in any case precludes the use of these funds. So this is another evidence where the dog taco prays – financially destabilise national radio broadcasting, interfere with fundamental decisions, including those under the authority of the administration of the largest public institution, that is, RTV Slovenia, and take over what the administration has to do and what the programming board has to do. However, if the Governing Council had received an earring, it had already been said today, the untrustworthy one had been voted out. And interestingly, what was the decision — even the employees were told to call off the representatives of the Governing Council. The idea of how powers are allocated is very interesting. But, as it is said, in addition to all that we have already discussed and highlighted, it is only necessary to take a little of the claim from the reserve when the coalition says that it is at the heart of its actions, but the interest of all – at least 200,000 households certainly not if we accept this novelty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioner or the Government, Mr. Secretary of State Alexander Zorn, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to point out at least three: firstly, this is a kind of preliminary treatment and you will have the opportunity to talk about it widely and also to complement something if we forget something. The other thing, the obvious that we can be independent of the European Union, is of course brave, smart and I support them. However, we are part of the European Union, and this strange loneliness does not seem to be very useful to me. The third thing that comes out of this is that if we do not comply with the European Union directives and Norkring will have a say in what has happened to him, we can get up to €20 million in fines. If you think that's appropriate, then you can just calculate it into that lost profit TV that would lose it. And finally, don't you think it's strange that national television itself gives its own multiplex the opportunity to compete with it, in its mutual agreement, which we should doubt is just so well-intentioned, but that it is unhealthy competition, if it isn't very corrupt competition. So competition is what's most expensive here, and it's going to be the most expensive thing to do if national television is going to market the whole TV area in the country. But I do have some concrete answers, because we predicted them. Objections against this are so general and well-known and lobbyists have taught you very well, so I have something that is ready and I will read, despite the complex technological language. Alleged distortion of competition. It should be pointed out that the proposed novelty does not limit competition on the market, since competition is guaranteed by public tender in the case of limited public goods, such as radio frequency. In the opinion of the Competition Protection Office, which has now come into existence, the misleading claim is that competition is limited in the absence of other multiplexes in the event of a prohibition on the free use of multiplex A capacity. Indeed, competition is guaranteed on each individual invitation to tender for each single multiplex and is ensured by the choice of the best provider, which, as such, cannot generate monopolistic rents. In the light of competition, competition and European regulation, as envisaged by the novelty, it is essential to prevent distortions of competition from this aspect. In view of the calls for new multiplexes, it is expected, however, to respect the strategic guidelines of the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, which foresees calls for new multiplexes by the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, Apek. Another time. The perception of a smaller coverage of the signal of multiplex B. Among other things, it is 10,000, not for 100,000 households, but in terms of coverage we explain that the signal of multiplex A covers 98% of the population and the population of multiplex B 89% of the population. For example, before the digital transition, Pop TV had 70% coverage and Channel A had 60% coverage with its signal. In addition, it should be clarified that terrestrial broadcasting is only one of the transmission technologies for the expansion of commercial programmes that can also be accessed via cable and broadband networks and satellites. The suggestion that the applicant should provide a much longer transitional period. The proposed amendment has already provided for a longer period for the implementation of the law, which should allow participants in the market for terrestrial digital broadcasting and, above all, to prepare Apek more easily for the necessary changes. In accordance with the amendment to the Act, a transitional decision establishing a 30-day period for the alignment of the issued decision of multiplex A with the decisions of this Act and providing for an even longer period for the application of the law is normally 60 days after the publication of the Official Journal. In view of Norkring's announced departure from Slovenia, is the law still needed? In doing so, I allow myself to note that some of you are implying or implying that we serve Norkring while at the same time claiming to be leaving. Yeah, he's leaving. He's dismantling his stuff. It is said that we can serve him a little more in dismantling. The possible departure of Norkring from Slovenia and the consequent non-action of multiplex A, regardless of the possible acceptance of the novel, will have no effect on commercial programmes without multiplex. Following the explicit decision of the third paragraph of Article 15 of the existing law, which does not change with the amendment, it is still possible that, in the event that multiplex A is the only active multiplex with the geographical coverage of the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, commercial programmes may also remain pending a change in the situation, the implementation of calls for new multiplexes by Apek and the establishment of new networks. Next. The impression that multiplex A was indeed awarded without a tender, but RTV Slovenia was not allowed to run on a public invitation to tender for another multiplex in accordance with the legislation. The legislation fully followed the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, which, in order to ensure the development of digital terrestrial broadcasting in competitive conditions, provided for the operation of at least two ground broadcasting operators. The public institution of RTV Slovenia has thus acquired frequencies for multiplex A without invitation to tender for the purpose of performing public service. In order to ensure competition, among other multiplex B RTV Slovenia did not even have to run for it. For the multiplex B operator, one of the commercial companies that applied for the tender was thus selected. RTV Slovenia will again be able to run for the following multiples. And not to forget: Norkring was the most successful in this candidacy, because it was also the cheapest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorn. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. I note that the time for discussion has not yet passed, so I ask if anyone else is ready and interested in the application. Please sign in. Three reported. Anyone can get five minutes. The first is Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The challenge was what the Secretary of State said at the end. I understand that part of cynicism and ridicule can be reduced to the claim that we were well-educated and abused by lobbyists. This rudeness could bring you back, and I'd say you're well trained to scare people. This is where you intimidated us with a 20-million penalty, for which it might actually be due. But there is no city, no time, no room for such emotions to discredit the debates of Members and Members who are really concerned about two. I did not get a very convincing response to this, except that the European Commission will punish us with 20 million euros in fines. But I didn't get an answer about what you're going to be and how you're going to provide 20,000 people with television, a tour of the programs, and you didn't tell me how to replace the loss of millions of euros in revenue to public television. Given that we are Members of Parliament and Members who have to worry about what is happening in this country, we have asked you this question. We have warned you that there has been a vacuum, a vacuum story in which we do not have an answer for 200,000 people, and we do not have a response to public television, which is so quick and so on, and we deal with it and increase the revenue withdrawal orders that we are now giving to a private foreign company. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to refrain from such comments when he speaks out about who was wronged. We or I personally report every lobbyist. But I'm not sure if you've reported everything you've done since you've been Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. I heard yesterday that some of us live on the moon. I don't know, it wasn't said that anyone else could be on Mars or Venus, which is also sometimes possible to hear why there are differences between us. But I took the floor because now, it seems, it will be quite generally accepted that Parliament is not a place for debate. For the last time, the Minister had a problem with the questions sent to him, and now his secretary of state has a problem with that. If I was surprised at the first, because he did not have parliamentary practice, I am very surprised at the other because he knows the customs and knows what we Members have to do in the legislative process. Therefore, by the fact that we have requested general treatment, I do not consider political correctness. So much for that. Whether someone loves to answer arguments is another story, how we get information about things, is a third story. In fact, I volunteered for the discussion below because of something else. In the opinion of one of the parliamentary groups, it was also obvious that national television should acquire the skills to spread advertising. Well, it is interesting that the Slovenian People's Party in its previous mandate was the one that succeeded in adopting legislation by shortening the time for advertising on national television. A fundamental question needs to be asked: Is it acceptable for a public service to approach the time share of commercial television advertising or not? And if in most cases we follow the wishes of viewers and viewers who believe that the advantage of monitoring the national programme is precisely that advertising is less, then this cannot be a reason to argue how to reduce the possibility of income for national television. However, as regards the issue of ratings and thus associated landing or non-compliance with the national service programme policy, it is necessary to return to the starting point of view, namely, that the programme is decided by the Programme Council, that it is carried out by the Administration of the Public Service and that the Supervisory Board is charged with monitoring both. Now I will not say anything else here, but what I think is absolutely necessary: you need to come out of the RTV Act and from what is actually charged to the public service. And it must be said over and over again that it is the responsibility of the public service to enrich the Slovenian media landscape, to pluralize the media, to care for the content that other services, especially commercial ones, do not offer. And if I refer to public research and to professional monitoring of the policy of the national media programme, then I must say that it is possible to see from the responses of the respondents that they want more media content than commercial programmes offer. This is a number of cultural programs, a number of scientific shows, several shows for young people. So, all that can sometimes, even as a result of the decisions of the Programme Council, some interested groups are being monitored outside the elite deadlines. It is another issue of contract making, and I am very interested in what Vesna Kuljaj thought, why she came forward about the contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u137	What's happening these days is driving me to ask you: Is it possible that Opus Dei is taking you? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. See, the reasons and so on – what are they? Ask outside strikers who know exactly what are the reasons for all legislative changes and all those who are forecasting. The reason is, the wish is that what's public is bad. It's over. And if it's bad, you need to privatize it, and if you need to privatize it, you have some other power over it. That the Ministry will decide on the contract work on these media – what is it that I can now say ten names that must no longer come to television or radio?Oh, my God! That's the point, there's nothing else! It's not saving, it's not knowing what! TV will be forced to spin old movies and some shows to fill the program. That's the point. Education — What Is the Purpose of Normatives? Don't tell me, I worked 19 years in school! It is no longer a problem for two children to have a class in Ljubljana. But we're going to shut down branch schools, impoverish rural areas, transport children to the city, to big schools. That's the purpose! And TV — What Is the Purpose? The countryside, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it grow and eat grass. That's the point. But don't make me think it's different! These aren't austerity measures, they're not squandering. I can't support this because I live in a village because I live with this village, but as mayor I served it more than the city. A child, a student, a high school student, a college student, or a college student. [[Incomprehensible]] He will no longer be able to educate himself in Ljubljana, even if he is intelligent – a hundred times more than here than a tycoon's son or daughter. This is the purpose and you will achieve it and there are other areas here, not just this! That I don't go to health care or anything! If something happens to me in Ljubljana and I'm at the Clinical Center, the appendicitis surgery costs me ten times more than the Shempeter Hospital because it's not the Clinical Center. Come on, people! There are reserves, but what the countryside should have, what the surrounding area should have. RTV Slovenia should be that dominant television, if not – five, ten years ago we were working on the Goriška madman from Italy because we were talking about "berlusconism" – just crap on TV! Fortunately, this Slovenia 1 doesn't work, but it'll have to, obviously, if it wants to survive. Let us be smart and vote in such a way that we will not allow everything that is public to collapse, everything that worked well in Yugoslavia and today. Social and stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Alexander Zorn, Secretary of State. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u139	It has no rules of procedure – but good for it to have five minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u140	Mr Zorn cannot apply under the Rules of Procedure, but Mr Zorn indicated that he would like a word. Secondly, Mr Zorn, I ask you to take into account that fellow Members and Members of Parliament should also clearly see this wish and apply very clearly. You have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I didn't make the final statement in time. I thank you for the debate, I think it has proved to be of such a kind that it is imperative that we continue it, because a whole series of professional questions have been raised, partly answered, not quite. So I propose that this goes to a second debate. However, as for my person, who has prevented some of you from understanding or from being a place of dialogue, I apologize, although I doubt that anyone in this country is such that Mrs Tretrate could have taken away the word if she did not want to, or that Mr Jakič could have kept any personal comment if he wanted to. If I am the victim of this, then I must say that the debate has succeeded, because we have forgotten the arguments. And they are that we still need to talk about the multiplex and that we need to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! In the light of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I think that you have done the wrong thing in this case and, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, when you gave the floor to the Secretary of State, Dr Alexander Zorn, because he did not sign up for the debate. In his performance, he has now encouraged quite a few Members if they could have the right to a replica, and they do not have it in their rules of procedure. You could also give your colleague Patrati and your colleague Jakić a word. I do not mind that there is a thorough discussion in the National Assembly, that different views are exchanged, that the Government is also very actively involved, but I am in favour of strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your comment. The Secretary of State has been warned to apply more decisively for a second time so that we can all see him. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 19 April 2012, in the framework of the votes. I'm sorry. I can't see you. I see you now. You want procedural? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't know if he can call anyone more decisively. It is called to the National Assembly whether anyone else wants to discuss it or not that you have done so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but then if it is engulfed, someone is asked to apply even more decisively to the word, and you have missed this path a little. I hope that in the future, you can forgive this expression, there will be no more running the National Assembly. However, I am not against the debate, especially I am glad that the government representatives are here, even though they are on the ground in the majority, and that the Secretary of State, Dr. Zorn, has also come to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-18-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you again very much for your warning. I understood him very well. Of course, at this point, I do explain, to those who may not know that Mr Secretary of State or Government is unable to report with a push on the button in this case, so it is also not recorded on the screen, but it is not sufficiently apparent and decisive enough to reach out to the word with a hand that he has been warned about, and I hope that there will be no such problems in the future. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
