ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests! I begin the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received apologies from Members and Members for today's extraordinary session. I invited Dr. Danil Türk, President of the Republic of Slovenia, to the first item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 10 January 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you have received a reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 5 January 2012, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed that Mr Zoran Jankovic be elected Prime Minister of the Government. I give the floor to the candidate for Prime Minister Mr Zoran Jankovic to present the Government's programming designs in accordance with paragraph 226 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members, distinguished guests, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Thank you very much for your confidence. Thank you to the voters and voters who elected us to this high assembly with their votes, and thank the President of the Republic, Dr. Daniel Türk, for entrusting me with a challenging and responsible task, based on the results of the elections, to form a future government. I am pleased and honoured to be able to present myself today as a candidate for the President of the Government. In the early parliamentary elections on 4 December last year, voters and voters in large numbers expressed their will and expectations unequivocally. They were led by voters: an assessment of past political action, a confrontation with the latest situation, and hope for a better tomorrow. Members and Members of the National Assembly – the number of them is the highest in the 20-year history of Slovenia this time, which I am extremely pleased with – we are the winners of past elections, all together and each Member or each Member individually. With our past achievements and personal references, all 90 of us here present voters and voters have convinced us that we will represent and care for their interests as best we can. We therefore owe the elected representatives of citizens and citizens a clear decision to respect and to fulfil, to the greatest extent possible, the expectations that are legitimately based on our promises from the campaign. The commitments of all the parties present were cooperation and mutual respect. So what government needs Slovenia in today's situation? Slovenia needs a credible government and needs it now. We need a government team that will be able to overcome the difficult economic and financial situation as soon as possible to make concrete moves from too many words to tangible actions and, in particular, to change for the better. Thus, we will give citizens and citizens the best way to know that their journey to the electorate was not in vain and that the promises made before the election Sunday were not empty. Slovenia needs a top-of-the-line operational government that, through its decisions and actions, will be able to tackle the crisis and redirect flows by drawing on the welfare of the country for all residents and residents who will work better and live better in their home country. We have already taken the first step in this direction with a rapid and successful agreement with union representatives before the adoption of the emergency law on intervention measures. At a crucial moment, the social partners have demonstrated a great deal of solidarity and understanding, and representatives of all parliamentary parties have been informed to citizens and citizens that we are more compatible. I'm sure by reaching consensus in people for a moment, we've awakened the hope that we can make a quick and smart deal. But from hope to trust, it's a long way to go. Slovenia needs a government that, in its effort for the common good, will again be able to overcome the difference – I am prepared to lead such a government. I am aware that the developments in Slovenian party policy in the pre- and especially post-election period often did not contribute to strengthening people's confidence in politics, I would say otherwise. I myself have learned a lot as a novelty in client policy, but Slovenia does not have time for political games and games today, so it is right for all of us to listen responsibly to the invitation of the President of the Republic, who has called all the parties' representatives to form an agreement without a fig in our pocket. In order to form an operational capable government as soon as possible, we organised meetings and substantive discussions with the leadership of other parliamentary parties immediately after the election results were published, with the aim of successfully drawing up a programme related and compatible coalition. A coalition was formed, which was co-ordinated and initialled by the parties of the Social Democrats, the National Gazette of Gregor Virant, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Positive Slovenia last week. Allow me, when presenting the coalition programme, which we jointly adopted and endorsed by the four signatories, to stop and present in more detail our joint commitments and the substantive objectives. We have committed ourselves to upholding the integrity of human rights and freedoms and human dignity in our decisions, while continuing to show respect for one another. We are convinced that in Slovenia each individual must be given the opportunity to prove his or her abilities and knowledge and to apply his or her goals. We have pledged to respect the rule of law consistently and to strengthen just society to respect diversity, promote solidarity and ensure the safety of all peoples and peoples. The coalition partners within the framework of the work of the National Assembly and the Government will not raise questions about the interpretation of past history and we will stick to the principle that policy should only speak on these issues when it is able to unify. We will act with patience, respect for ethnic and other minorities, and all other thinking, while firmly rejecting any incitement to intolerance and hostility. We have agreed that in our partnership we will respect the State institutions and ensure good cooperation with the National Assembly, with the President of the State and with the judiciary. Facing the financial, economic and social crisis and finding solutions to improve the difficult situation, our programme commitment focuses on a competitive economy and balancing public finances. Slovenia must make every effort to restore the confidence of foreign investors and international institutions, to balance the state budget urgently and to set it up by catalysing economic growth. That is why we have committed ourselves to achieving stable economic growth by the end of the mandate, reducing the gap between the development of Slovenia and the most developed European countries. We have committed ourselves to introducing tax reliefs for the establishment of new businesses and for all those investments that create new jobs. By establishing a single account of business entities' accounts and simple payment insurance instruments, we will eliminate payment non-discipline. Together we have announced a gradual rise in the base of the 41% income class to the level of two average wages. We have announced the introduction of a new income class for those with the highest personal income. We have also committed ourselves together to simplify administrative procedures and legislation in the economic, tax, labour, environmental and spatial fields. We will eliminate the credit crunch, and we will not provide additional funds for the banking system with recapitalisation from public funds, but through the sale of non-financial investments by banks and the acquisition of strategic investors. We will promote basic forms of organisational participation of employees, such as participation of employees in management, participation in profits and wider internal ownership. This will strengthen the importance of human capital for the success of businesses. People, because in recent years in the Slovenian space, too many people have been forgotten. With the budget rebalancing, we will already reduce public spending by 5% this year. The trend will continue in the coming years. On the other hand, we will increase revenue both by effective tax collection and by economic growth, and by removing administrative barriers and increasing control, we will also reduce the grey economy. If we fail to balance public finances with those measures, we will increase the public value added tax already before the elections. We will transform the capital investment management agency into an institution that will be completely transparent and significantly more effective in managing state-owned enterprises. Human resources decisions in state-owned enterprises will be taken solely on the basis of objectively professional competences of candidates. We will identify the country's strategic assets and ensure effective corporate governance. It makes sense to withdraw the country from companies that are not of strategic importance, but not from companies that are successful in international markets and even less from infrastructure companies. We will develop Slovenia as a logistics centre for Central and South-Eastern Europe, so we will invest in the modernisation of rail and other infrastructure and the completion of motorway links. In order to strengthen the logistical strategic role of our country, it is necessary to build the third pier of Luka Koper, the second railway track and the new road development axes, which will bring closer to the more difficult available today and therefore in many respects the disadvantaged part of Slovenia, especially Koroška, White Krajina, Kočevsko and Idrija-Cerkljansko. We have also received the planned energy investments. By building a hydroelectric power plant in the middle and lower Sava, we will meet three challenges: providing jobs at the time of construction, helping to heat the economy after completion, promoting environmentally friendly energy sources will strengthen sustainable development and environmental sustainability. We will reduce the flood risk of the entire area and thus increase the quality of life of people in these areas. The TEŠ 6 project is too far today to be inserted, yet we will carefully check the possibilities for rationalising the investment, including reviewing all the procedures so far and finding responsibility for the alleged or possibly poor management of the project. In the four-party talks, we also agreed to explore the possibility of gradually introducing a social cap, taking into account the impact on the financial situation of the country, on the social situation of citizens and citizens and on the competitiveness of businesses. The latter must be strengthened and increased in the coming years, as only competing companies will be able to survive and grow and, as a development generator, have a beneficial impact on the competitiveness of the whole country. Our promises are serious and similarly concrete in all areas of a coordinated coalition commitment. Let me mention a few other examples from other areas of our programme, which are also of exceptional importance for the future and the successful development of our country. We follow the principle Every job counts, so we will simplify the legal forms of work, partly take over the costs of the first regular job, strengthen the legal security of employees and tighten sanctions for employers who do not pay contributions and other obligations. With reorganisation and non-replacement pensions, we will reduce the amount of wages in the public administration by 2% per year and transform the government into twelve ministries. For greater transparency and efficiency of procedures and consequently overall transparency, we will work intensively to centralise the support functions of the state administration, such as public procurement, human resources, information support and real estate management. With concrete and detailed measures, we will simplify legal procedures and remove administrative obstacles, which today are a waste of valuable time and unnecessary, often unwarrantedly high additional costs for citizens. With all seriousness, we are aware of the apparent decline in citizens' confidence in social systems, so we will strengthen our trust in the social system with responsible solidarity and justice in all areas. By systematic, independent and consistent prosecution of economic and organised crime, by increasing the efficiency of the courts and by eliminating the judicial backlogs by the end of the term of office, we will restore confidence in the legal system at the latest. The action plan for the implementation of the promised will be drawn up for each court individually. We are committed to health and pension reforms that will enable both the pension and health system to be more transparent, rational and tailored to the actual capabilities and needs of citizens and citizens of all generations. I am particularly pleased that, in the coalition commitment, our partners have successfully reconciled the growth of pensions. By securing agricultural land by paying off state resources in a timely manner and by providing priority local care, we will increase the production quality, safety and cost-effective food of domestic production and allow public institutions to be provided with it. In particular, and in cooperation with the public, private sector, we will address the repression and prevention of corruption of all legal forms. The government and all its representatives will be exemplary by our actions as citizens and citizens. At least 1% of GDP will be allocated from public funds every year to research and development, with adapted scholarship policy protecting access to knowledge for all. We will further strengthen the quality of higher education institutions and help them to be successful in the international environment. With targeted support from creative industries and an intensive link between educational institutions and economic operators, young people will be better able to return and invest in their home environment rather than abroad. Dear Members and Members! I have listed and presented only some of the serious substantive commitments that we can work hard to implement after the confirmation of the National Assembly. With my presentation, I wanted to illustrate to you how detailed and how binding we have already agreed and how serious we have thought about this. Allow me to explain the coalition coordination process in colors. When last Friday morning we provided all partners with a copy of the proposed coalition agreement, the document was made up of four colours. The comments of each party were marked by their own. Then, when the negotiating groups and later the presidents of the parties – sickly absent Mr Borut Pahor, were replaced by Vice-President Patrick Vlačič – together with the processing of the content of the material, we had a common objective – to agree on and harmonise the commitments so that at the end the document will be in one colour. We knew that a single text would prove that there were no open dilemmas. After a full day of coordination, we reached an agreement and the negotiating group leaders initialled it. What happened then that one of the four partners changed his mind? If he had reasonable considerations, it would be reasonable and fair to speak about it openly, even if this resulted in the end of Saturday evening with only three of the four parishes. In the efforts of the coalition flags, I was given the impression that I was too naive. But you know, I don't know what else to do. I trust people, I believe the word and the offer of hands. That's who I am. It will be difficult for me to change at my age, despite the fact that many are convincing me that politics is not the way it works. In recent weeks, I have also received advice that I should know how to count in politics, so allow me to share with you the experience of long-term work in an economy where there is also a need to know the basics of accounting. In the long run, however, the promise and the grip of hands are those who decide on the success, reputation and credibility of the management, and the statistics on which the trust of co-workers and business partners is built. And the broken word between partners in the economy is always a bad way to travel. I still believe that not everything can be acceptable in policy to achieve the objective. If we want to regain the confidence of citizens and citizens in the political institutions and all of us who operate on the political floor and decide on their future, then we must first become an example ourselves. If we want to encourage people and people to be ethical and moral, we need to know it for ourselves and prove it. At yesterday's meeting with the members and members of the Party of Positive Slovenia, I said that the first responsibility of our Members and Members is not a party, even less the President of the Party. Their first responsibility has always been, and in every decision, only citizens and citizens, voters and voters, who have trusted each of them and in the hope of a better future, have dedicated their voice to them. Therefore, honourable fellow Members and honourable Members, before today's vote on the mandate-holder, I ask you to compare the programme commitment presented with your electoral programmes and, above all, with your pre-election promises, and on this basis, to assess whether the Government, which I assure under my leadership, will consistently respect the coordinated and initial coalition commitment, will also fulfil your promises. If the answer is yes – and knowing your programmes, I hope to say that it is in the vast majority – then please suggest that you trust me with your vote as that of the President of the Republic. Vote by satisfying your conscience and your heart. Otherwise, I will understand that there is nothing wrong with the content of the commitment or with the programming links, but it is obvious in the eyes of some that there is something very wrong with me — the president of the party that won last year's elections. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, when you are alone behind the voting curtain, think of our commitment, to its negotiated content, designed for the good of Slovenia. I am convinced that together we can form a prudent and striking government, whose work will be based on professional decisions for rapid development, for the well-being of citizens and citizens, and for the successful breakthrough of Slovenia between the most successful European countries, which is also a commitment to a successful future for the Association of Managers. I have repeatedly presented the fundamental criteria for the team's design, and I insist on them today. I expect from the members of the government team a high level of expertise and team cooperation that will contribute to the coherence of the entire team. Since I believe in the common good work, we did not limit ourselves to the coalition offer by cutting ourselves on the basis of the percentage of votes obtained, but we offered several ministerial cities to the partners at the beginning of the talks. In the government, we do not intend to count the client cards, but the results achieved, with the desire for the greatest possible success for the benefit of all. We're not, and we're not closing anyone's doors in the formation of a coalition. We would be pleased if you would agree with the coalition programme and join us in bringing together the representative of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities. Even with the parties who have decided differently and have publicly excluded participation in our coalition, we want to cooperate constructively. The talks we made with the Slovenian People's Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party were correct and respectful, and some programme issues were also very specific. All together, I sincerely invite that, in projects that are crucial to effectively overcoming the crisis and which will be an important incentive for the future development of the country, we conclude an agreement on cooperation and support, which I call the Alliance for Slovenia. With regard to the promises we have all made before the elections, and with them and their names, I am sure that we will be better able to act hand in hand for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. If you are willing to entrust me with a mandate and we will successfully form a coalition, the Alliance for Slovenia will be based on projects of pension, health reform, labour market reforms, creating new jobs, we will work together to reduce the costs of the state and simplify administrative procedures, together we will take the decisions necessary to resolve the economy from the credit crunch, and we will ensure the consolidation of public finances. It's both possible. Slovenia proved this every time it was at the historic milestones. Moreover, there has often been an example and hope for others, but we need to know how to walk together. The common good does not come from being only better than others. You've got to be good to the others, too. Then we can all be the best together, then we create a welfare for everything and for everyone. The government that I will lead, if you so decide, will implement the programming guidelines to which we have committed ourselves in accordance with the basic guidelines for our operation. We will balance our activities for a competitive economy with responsible concern for social solidarity. If I say otherwise, we will pursue the goal of doing better and living better. And such an esteemed National Assembly, dear citizens and citizens, is Slovenia, as I see it. Good for everyone, best for all of us. Slovenia, which, even in the most difficult economic social crisis, will not deny anyone the right to free education, treatment and enjoyment of earned age. Slovenia, which will not sacrifice its people and not its own nature for a higher rate of economic growth, will successfully find the right balance between economic, environmental and social development. Slovenia, where the justice system will guarantee rights and will not cause injustices, backlogs and delays. Slovenia, in which trust, respect and cooperation will form the strongest link. Slovenia, which is and will be a proud part of the European family, is aware that it is also strong in the society of the stronger. At the same time, it will be due to its historical memory, state youth and state wisdom that it will be able to help new members and encourage future ones. Slovenia, which will be a constructive and open interlocutor and a reliable partner to other countries, will always be first and foremost loyal to itself and its citizens and citizens. The government I lead will do everything in our power to contribute to the stability of the euro through a stable public financial policy, as a binding tissue of the European economy and an indicator of European economic power. I haven't talked much about the European Union, because this is our given fact which is and must remain. The rules should apply to all the same, including Slovenia. We will respect them consistently, while maintaining our integrity and self - confidence. In solving the crisis, we will not forget that as strong as the currency, we are bound by fundamental European values, such as the inviolability of individual freedom, the equality of all citizens and citizens and respect for human rights. Yes — freedom, equality, solidarity. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular both the national community – Italian and Hungarian. On behalf of all three coalition partners, the Social Democrats, DeSUS and Positive Slovenia, I would like to express my full readiness to include the concrete content that Members of the national communities have forwarded to me today. With this important content of the coalition commitment, their message was also clear and loud to their constituents and voters. By listening to each individual voice, we are most justified in the responsibility that has been entrusted to us. And that's what we do most for the wealth of the whole community. I therefore sincerely hope that our joint efforts will be worthy of their confidence and voice in the future. The government is the highest executive body of a country. It can be a source of anger, but it can also be an example and a promise. When times are harder, anger is closer at first sight and longer is joy. But I'm sure it's in the most difficult trials that show how much we can actually do as individuals, as a government, as a political class, as a society and as a state. The responsibility lies with each and every one of us. During the period we witness to him, it is a historical responsibility. Your Honor! Now is the opportunity for all of us to show together how far and how far we have been able, how serious we have been in our promises, how much we have learned from our past experiences and also mistakes, especially how much we truly understand the complexity of the time and the world we live in. If we do all of this on the best of conscience — and I think of the common good — then we have nothing to fear. It will be an extraordinary personal honor and pride for you to entrust me with a responsible task at the proposal of the President of the Republic – the composition of the future Slovenian government. I promise that I will do my best to make sure that your trust, along with the selected team of coworkers and associates, will be forgiven if not even exceeded. In my name, I guarantee that we will work well for the good of Slovenia and for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much. /Applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u3	I thank Mr Zoran Jankovic, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, for this presentation. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, it is Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. At the meeting with the President of the Republic, Dr. Türk, I said that we support the first opportunity for the composition of the new government by a relative winner, President of the List of Zoran Jankovic, Mr Zoran Jankovic. I also said that the Group of Members would not support it in the vote. At that time, the vast majority of other parties were inclined to give the relative winner a first chance. That is why it seemed to us that we were delaying the proposaler, despite the acute situation and the poor position of the country, and despite the fact that we have almost a year no longer had a government with majority support, irresponsible. As it is said, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group would not support the vote in any way, since Mr Jankovic has consistently ruled out any cooperation with the Slovenian Democratic Party in the campaign, arguing that we are speaking and doing one another. Thus, the applicant's claim that he would not close the door to anyone was not sincere and not based on previous pre-election declarations. However, we expected the President's candidate for a term of office to either form a solid coalition with a sufficient number of votes of support for the election of the Prime Minister and the Government itself or return the mandate. In the event that such a coalition was formed, we were prepared to support all the necessary anti-crisis and reform measures of its government and coalition, as well as the development programmes, the projects of the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, the implementation of which, after unnecessary implementation over the last three years, had almost completely stalled. We were prepared to cooperate with the Government in the framework of the Partnership for Development. Last but not least, we have successfully practiced both partnership and the only government so far in the 2004-2008 mandate. And it proved to be a quality added value in the plural division of political space. Such cooperation was then rejected only by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Today, however, we are faced with a situation that should never have occurred in a democratic society. The President's candidate for a term of office failed to form a solid coalition for the election of the Prime Minister and the government, but he did not return the mandate. In fact, in a democratic and transparent way, it does not have a majority stake to confirm the mandate, but rather a solid coalition, but it persists in this candidacy, thereby allowing political corruption to be promoted at the highest level. Let us ask ourselves what kind of example the National Assembly provides as a legislative body and as the top of the representative branch of government with such conduct on the part of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but if it is the citizens and citizens that are expected and required to comply consistently with laws and ethical standards. For the Slovenian Democratic Party, such behaviour is irresponsible and we reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Well welcomed on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the early elections, voters and voters decided to change and we want to respect their decision. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal of the President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, to elect Zoran Jankovic as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The possibility we have as the third largest parliamentary party has also been tried to implement with responsibility the content of the coalition commitment, which is the basis for the formation of the government and for the composition of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We both need to respond as soon as possible to the difficult global, European and domestic conditions in a timely manner. We stress that the Social Democrats and the List of Zoran Jankovic are two different parties, but similar enough to form the content of the coalition commitment together. We Social Democrats have so actively and constructively participated in the coalition negotiations. The nation-building role and stability, which is the characteristic of social democrats, were the basic starting points for our approach. Programme orientation, political action and our past actions also confirm this. A constructive policy that introduces peace, security and stability into society and a reasoned decision that puts content ahead of form and does not serve the partial interests of the most powerful will be the key characteristics of the party and our parliamentary group in this mandate. Our vision is just, solidarity, creative, safe and successful Slovenia. In Europe, there are relatively large differences between the rich and the poor, and we do not want this practice to go uncritically to Slovenia. We are confident that with patient, effective and responsible solutions we can ensure a stable situation in Slovenia and continue to remain a country that is also an element of stability in Europe. We have aligned and initialled a programme with potential coalition partners, which is good enough to support Mr Zoran Jankovic as a mandate holder. For our decision, let me state some basic guidelines for the work of the coalition. Establish a balance between the solidarity and competition countries and reduce the differences between the most privileged and deprived citizens. Continue to ensure transparent and efficient management of capital investments, allowing for comparability or even overcoming revenues from comparable foreign companies. Maintain agricultural policy objectives by protecting land for food production, taking into account their potential for safe and sufficient food supply. Finally, we also wanted to ensure that the ministries were brought together as meaningfully as possible. The election result does not allow us to take responsibility for the composition of the government. We tried to do everything we could to make this happen at this session. That is why we just welcomed President Danil Türk's decision to grant a mandate to form a government to the relative winner, Mr Jankovic. In doing so, we have drawn attention to the weak point of the proposal that Mr Jankovic is not yet provided with sufficient support. Thus, today it is the greatest responsibility to achieve sufficient support, right on top of it. With all the votes of the Group of Social Democrats, we will contribute our share to the goal of establishing a government as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor on behalf of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u8	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, before the elections, we have announced that we will be deciding to join the coalition primarily on the basis of an assessment of whether we will be able to implement the key points of our programme in the government. Prior to the start of the negotiations, the key programming points were also clearly defined by the Council of the Civil Service List and instructed our negotiating group to try to put them in place as best as possible. When we reviewed the draft Treaty with Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats and DeSUS, we found that some of the important programming points in it were not adequately defined for us. Above all, the issue is the tax burden on work or employment. Our proposal to impose a ceiling on the payment of social contributions, the so-called social hat, was only conditional in the coalition contract, it is said, without a clear agreement. At the same time, at the request of one of the parties, it was stipulated that an additional tax grade with a high tax rate should be introduced in the income. We have also opposed the rise in value added tax and have achieved that it is only mentioned as an extreme option if other measures to balance public finances were not successful. However, despite such a record in the draft treaty, representatives of some parties were already in a hurry to argue publicly that this tax would be necessary and that we would not be able to avoid it. For us, the area of the rule of law is also extremely important, which also requires more effective and coordinated action by law enforcement authorities. It has therefore been a great disappointment for us that we have not succeeded in proposing that the powers of the State Prosecutor's Office and the police be merged within the same ministry. Important differences between potential partners have also emerged in the areas of housing policy and health and pension reform. Therefore, only a rather general definition with a whole range of conditioners could be included in the contract. Of course, we are aware that in no coalition contract can everything be at the will of one party, so it was also very important for our decision to assess the entire course of negotiations. As you all know, in the first two weeks after the elections, we received only two invitations from Mr Zoran Jankovic to the talks, which on his part were quite exclusive both to our substantive proposals and to some people on our negotiating side. This wasted a lot of valuable time, as well as positive energy, which is urgently needed to reach an agreement. Nevertheless, as a responsible party, we have decided to continue the negotiations. After a constitutional meeting of the National Assembly, when he failed to succeed with his candidate for President of the National Assembly, Mr Jankovic completely replaced the negotiating tactics. We have received a draft coalition contract, which was presented only on three sides, without a clear substantive concept. In the following days, we have completed the Treaty in particular with the text of the comments made by the Civil Gazette and the Social Democrats. The contribution of Positive Slovenia was extremely modest. On the side of the negotiating group of Positive Slovenia, the formation of the coalition contract was mainly carried out with too much improvisation. In the negotiations, positive Slovenia acted primarily as an intermediary, mediator, without much of its own substantive input and with a clear objective of entering everything necessary into the contract so that it could be initialled. And when you negotiate with a client who doesn't have the right concept, you wonder if such a government can even be solid. Such an approach has unfortunately not convinced us that a significant part of our programme could be realized in the Government of the potential mandate-holder and that this government could act too strong on the basis of a clearly established substantive programme. Day 7. 1. In 2012, the text of the agreement was initialled by all negotiating parties under one very clearly recorded condition, all remaining open issues decided by the competent authorities of the parties and decided definitively whether or not the parties went to the coalition despite the non-conformities at issue. Slovenia needs a solid, lasting and stable government more than ever, and we are convinced in the Civil Gazette that, on the basis of what we have seen so far, the last proposed mandate holder cannot provide. It would be a very risky experiment, which we cannot afford today and here because of the responsibility of all of us. There is no need for chemistry, programme coherence and clearly-exposed objectives among political parties to make up such a coalition. Even wrongly, there is a strong antipathy and defiance among key actors. That is why we have decided, without a vote in the world of the Civil Code, that Mr Zoran Jankovic's candidacy for the term of office should not be supported, and that the entire parliamentary group will also vote. However, if today's candidate is still elected and will form a government, he will certainly be able to count on a partner with whom he can at any time participate constructively and actively in all those projects that we initialled at the time of the failed coordination of the coalition agreement and in all those projects that we will assess to be good for citizens and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Erjavec on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister of the Government! We are a responsible party in DeSUS, and we are aware of the situation that Slovenia has faced because of the global crisis and also because of certain political blockades that we have witnessed in recent years. As a result, DeSUS decided to respect the democratic and constitutional principles in force in that country. It is quite clear that the relative winner of these elections is Mr Zoran Jankovic, who has entered Slovenia's political space as a great hope, as a person who can get more support than a person who is very effective, and as a person who can find a way out of the crisis that Slovenia is in. Not only are we in a serious economic, financial crisis, but we are also in a serious political crisis. The party DeSUS, as a non-ideological party, as a party interested in the social state, which is interested in the situation of the poorest, pensioners, workers, unemployed, is a party that must be constructive. In these circumstances, we need a strong government that will also be able to implement all necessary reforms. We also participated constructively in the negotiations in DeSUS and also initialled the coalition agreement, although some things were open, but I can say that what was initialled is what we wanted for DeSUS and also for our Group of Members. This means, in particular, that we are more burdened by the rich, so we have also succeeded in this fourth income class, which is expected to burden those who receive really high wages. We see what happens in Slovenia when some people receive 200, 300 euros, and on the other hand we have unsuccessful managers who receive 10,000 euros a month's salary, and it is right to burden these people. I think this move, which is described in the coalition contract, is good. Then we know that we have problems with young people too. Young people don't get jobs. The DeSUS party, as a typical intergenerational party, which is also betting on intergenerational cooperation, also proposed that the coalition contract should record that we will finance, subsidise those young people who do not get a job, who are trainees and who would go into professions that are important for making the economy easier to breathe. I am glad that this proposal has also succeeded. As for the most important question for the party DeSUS, this is the issue of pension reform, the positions of pensioners, I must say that we have reached a compromise. You know, some people think that the rejection of pension reform is the reason that our ratings are falling. Of course, I don't agree with that. Our ratings are falling because the forecast for this year is that we will have 120,000 unemployed because we do not have economic growth because we have no development programme. These are the main reasons why our ratings are falling. Of course, we also suffer from political instability. For this reason, we believe in DeSUS that everything needs to be done to get some strong government to meet these challenges. Because if we are not so wise and so politically mature, then early elections can happen again. When I first performed as a member of the National Assembly, some smiled at that word, today it was a month and a few days ago, and we see that we can still be very far from the government or even very close. Yesterday, I had an interview with Mr. Zoran Jankovic, and he claimed that, despite the fact that only three parties were supposed to make up this coalition – we know that this is 44 votes, that a few votes are still missing, that he could also become a formal mandate holder – he assured me that there would be enough votes because he was supposed to have MEPs, no matter what. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, please, please, please, please, I don't want anyone to tell me that I'm getting into some new job, given that I read that I'm also supposed to be a candidate for the President of the National Assembly. Of course that's not true. So, please, let's also give this cultural dialogue to improve both right and left, but we won't have a problem, I have cultural Members. Let's keep going. I am pleased that we have also been able to agree on pension reform. This is an important question and the party DeSUS has never opposed pension reform, but we advocate a just one. We cannot burden these poor people who have 300, 400, 500 euros in pension with this pension reform. However, I agree that certain things need to be corrected there. It is important for us if, in 2013, the intervention law is not to include pensioners in this intervention law – if we are serious about intervention law, which means that wages will not increase, then the pension cannot grow because they are linked to the formula for harmonising wage growth. Given that we also have this in the coalition contract, I am no longer concerned about pension reform, because even in the Pahor government, I must say that we were very close to compromise, we were practically all changed, the problem was the freezing of pensions or the proposed quarterly coordination. Why is that important? Because pensions have fallen from 72% of the average wage to 59% of the average wage in the last ten years. And of course, if we freeze and wait for these good economic times to happen, I'll tell you that in two years, pensions will be close to 50%. How will these people live? Did we then really become a true social state? We didn't. Therefore, I always claim that DeSUS is the only real social party. That's why it's okay to sit there more on the left-hand side. They say that those who are for social and democracy are usually on the left, but not usually on the right, those who can create economic conditions, a successful economy, because that is what we need if we are to combine it. And now, I am glad that the relative winner is sitting in the middle, because there will be compromise on these two things, this is the true social state and successful management. I am sure that Zoran Jankovic will be able to do so according to his agenda, given what he has done in life. So, as we say, in the Desus party in the Desus Group, we trust Zoran Jankovic to have those two votes or even more. I think he probably convinced someone else today with his address, at least I hope, at least both members of the minority. But we'll see what happens. As far as the DeSUS Group is concerned, we will support the mandate holder. We'll support him for a number of reasons. For the first time, because he is a relative winner and the party DeSUS is a non-ideological party. I don't agree with being said to be some left orthodox party or some right orthodox party. I also tell you, President DeSUS – he is not interested in any function, not to write that I am one item now of some kind, but it is, and I must be honest with you, but on the executive committee of DeSUS, I am being pressured all the time to join the government to help solve the problems facing Slovenia. But if that is the decision of the executive committee, then I have to respect it, I have no choice but to hear that I am undemocratic, that I am autocratically leading our client. But I assure you, we have a high degree of democracy, and I hope that other parties do. We will support this because of the principles of democracy. The relative winner is famous. It's true he doesn't have enough support for this moment, but we'll see in a few hours. I hope this support will be given, because otherwise I think we'll get into even worse trouble. I said, the economic situation is not good, the financial situation is bad, the political situation is not good. Our initiative on the troika was not designed to stall me. I guarantee you that the National List, including the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, we went sincerely into this project to try to win one government that would have sixty votes with one broad support and would not be burdened by various political tensions on the one hand and on the other. Maybe I'd rather show it. That's why we went into this project, not to get, I don't know, on time or anything. I'm saying it's a big day for Slovenia today, and I hope it ends well. Otherwise, it seems to me that we will meet again at such an initial meeting, the only rhetoric may be slightly reversed, but it is no big deal, which we are accustomed to in Slovenia. As for DeSUS, our parliamentary group, we, in accordance with the Constitution, the principle of democracy, in line with the fact that we are a non-ideological party, that we are indeed a social central party, will support the mandate-holder. Of course, I hope that those two voices are needed because I would not like them to say that DeSUS is again responsible for a political crisis. This was evident to us last year when we left the coalition because we were unable to implement our program. And I hope that in the next new government, whatever it will be, that the party DeSUS will be able to implement its programme, in particular the part that will be enshrined in the coalition contract. I also hope that DeSUS will be treated with respect because it has not always been this way in the past. Mr. Zoran Jankovic, I wish you good luck today. I can already say that you have a lot of courage to hope that you do not have enough votes to go into this process. But I believe you have this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Erjavc. Thank you, too, for your help in managing the session. I join the call to hold to the highest possible level of culture of dialogue, and I would also like to invite colleagues and colleagues to refrain from shouting or calling and reaching for words. Now, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it is mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian voters and voters decided at the December 4th elections, and the party Positive Slovenia with President Zoran Jankovic received the biggest support. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, has also sent a proposal to the National Assembly to elect Mr Zoran Jankovic here as the ambassador. And that's right. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated the view that the first chance for the composition of the government must be given to a relative winner of the elections. And no matter who it is or who this person likes or doesn't like. This situation has been so clear for a bad month. This is from the very conclusion of the electoral results, 16 December of last year. The Slovenian People's Party has taken part in the elections and in the electoral campaign as a party, committed to its work plan, as we have named it in the programme and values resulting from the fact that the Slovenian People's Party is a legal ally of the historical Slovenian People's Party. The Slovenian People's Party is a party to Slovenian European and Christian traditional values and democracy understands as a search for common solutions and best chances for all. Democracy is not and cannot prevail over an individual or a majority over a minority. The Slovenian People's Party is also a party of all citizens and citizens, of all Slovenes and Slovenes, and does not accept the promotion of any division already – left-right, our-yours and so on. The President of the Republic, as it is said, granted the term of office for the composition of Mr Zoran Jankovic. We wish him good luck in the Slovenian People's Party, of course, but our support will not be shared at this time. Let me repeat this time when it is really about the Slovenian public. The Slovenian People's Party will not support this proposal. In the polls, SLS was entrusted with a few more than 75,000 votes for citizens and citizens. They trusted the man’s voice on the basis of our programme and our past actions, which showed our attitude towards all social problems and areas, both to the country, family, values, morals, social responsibility and could still be listed. People also trusted us because of our constructive stance in the past mandate, as we have repeatedly proved by action. And in view of the experience of the past month and also of the previous term, we find that the proposed candidate differs in these purely basic directions or views. More or more directly, this difference was demonstrated a few days ago, when instead of soothing, combining and pietic words, we received thunder and heavy words from some of the most visible policy representatives who are to take over the leadership of the Slovenian state for the next four years. Personally, speaking to the ambassadors, I was marked a servant. That's humiliating. I'm not a servant. I have never been and never will never be, not within Slovenia or outside Slovenia. Even more important are the differences in purely concrete substantive guidelines and solutions, if you want, of thinking. For example, let me mention only the attitude towards corruption, economic crime, the rule of law, tax havens and state debt. The President of the State has already given politicians a number of times to know that we respect the will of the people who were clearly expressed in the early elections. We absolutely agree with that. Each political party must respect the will of its constituents, i.e. those who elected it and gave it their vote. Actually, there's no other option. And anything else would mean playing the polls. Although, contrary to this opinion, we are likely to hear a number of different interpretations of the concept of 'acting as an electoral result' today. It's a country. It's been heard a lot in the last few days. We also agree with this in the Slovenian People's Party. And that is precisely why, as in the Slovenian People's Party, we will always take into account the will of those, almost 7% of the voters who have given us the voice of support. And we will not give support to Zoran Jankovic's mandate. This, of course, does not mean that the Slovenian People's Party, if the opposition party and today Mr Zoran Jankovic is given a mandate to form a government, will not assume its part of the responsibility to address the difficult and unpopular challenges and problems facing our country. To know and to be able to do this, we have proven this in the past term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Ludmila Novak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u14	Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have waited too long, but we have only waited to discuss and decide today on the new Prime Minister. In Novi Slovenija, we have supported the usual solution from the beginning so that the winning party will first be given the opportunity to elect the mandate holder and the composition of the government. The likely mandate holder, Mr Zoran Jankovic, was unfortunately not the most effective in his one-month negotiations. Still, we can't tell him he wasn't trying. Only methods at first did not indicate knowledge of democracy, so they were not the most effective. But I realized that this later improved greatly, which I am very pleased with. New Slovenia was also invited twice to the talks. We have made it clear that we will not participate in the government coalition led by Mr Jankovic. The reason for such a decision is not simply in the promise of our voters that we want to participate in the majority spring government. In the nose of Slovenia, we believe that in every democratic society that is not satisfied with its authority, it is normal and urgent that the authorities change and get the opportunity of another, on the other hand. However, in the case of the last elections, it is clear that the old authorities have been elected in a few new reshuffles. The question is also raised whether the people’s will has been expressed in the elections or whether the Money River is a holy ruler. This has also been demonstrated by numerous industries and advertising in Slovenia, which Nova Slovenije was unable to afford. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we must and want to respect the outcome of the elections, even if we are not at our best. In particular, we are concerned that your candidacy, Mr Jankovic, has been accompanied in the beginning by many doubts about the legality and fairness of conduct. For some time now, citizens have been appalled by the fact that some lobbyists are in control of the country. In doing so, a handful of people are shamelessly rich and depositing their assets into foreign banks and tax havens, while the accounts for their work remain unpaid. As a result, many smaller companies have collapsed and workers have lost their pay on the road. Unfortunately, the causes of such a situation remain due to strong ties to freedom or are often rewarded with new functions. Citizens want more rule of law, and above all more rights, fairness and equality before the law. We wish that any honest work would also be properly paid. Most people do not want charity and social support, but a decent and normal life from the work of their hands. Unfortunately, too few citizens still cash their shares in elections or this share is strongly targeted by media support. With the last results of the elections, I asked myself whether citizens really want more rule of law, but patriotism is no longer equal. I am still sure that most people want this, but because the money of the world is the ruler, I fear that in the future it will be nothing different than it has been before. In New Slovenia, we are also convinced that parents should be examples to children, teachers to their pupils and rulers to their citizens. Here I agree, at the principle level with Mr Jankovic. This is the only way to build a country that respects ethical and moral values, respects legislation and where we are all equal and proud of our country. Mr Zoran Jankovic, with all the doubts I have raised, we will in Novi Slovenija, when you are elected, respect the democratic will with the votes of voters and Members. However, we expect that your leadership of the country will not only be project-oriented but also legally, honestly and for the benefit of all citizens. After that, we will assess the success of your government and the progress of the Slovenian state. Such projects will also be supported by Nova Slovenija, although we will not support you today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President-in-Charge! Today's decision of the National Assembly will be an important and responsible action in terms of the perspective of the further development of the Republic of Slovenia and the overcoming of the very deep financial debt crisis. It is thoroughly and with maximum responsibility that we are aware of both the Member of indigenous national communities and our organisations. I also stress this because of Mr Erjavac's comment, although we will have to disappoint him to some extent in a substantive sense. Since one of the parties who has negotiated with the proposed mandate-holder on the creation of a potential government coalition, it has also begun to speculate with our votes. Perhaps some basis or motive for such an indication was offered by the 1997 situation, but I would like to point out in the introduction that, in the substantive sense, the identification of the two situations is not sustainable, so I would not have put up with that event 15 years ago. In view of the different reflections and public statements made by some of the former and current political actors regarding our decision and our position, I must make it clear and clearly that no one, that is to say no party or political party, has put pressure on us. The talks were correct. However, as far as our principled political decisions are concerned, in the framework of our vote, as we have already clearly stressed directly after the elections and also at the founding meeting of the National Assembly, I believe that what we insist on is responsible and proper conduct. Therefore, our position is that if at least minimal majority support is not clearly provided to the candidate for a mandate, we cannot contribute to it. I am pleased to note that, in the part of yesterday's speech on RTV Slovenia, the President of the Republic, in the same way as our position, assessed the essence of the national membership in the case in question. Sadly, some other speakers based their views on such or other but not based on unwarranted party ideological sentiments. As the essence of our position, I must make it clear that we today, by non-support, do not express our confidence in the candidate for term of office, Mr Zoran Jankovic, but that this is how the decision conditiones the moral mission of the Institute of Nationality in the context of the Slovenian legal and political definition to indigenous national communities. This will be true or will be true in all other similar cases, if that is the case. The essence of the election of every Slovenian government is based on the coordination and agreement of the parties who received a mandate in the national elections. On the basis of the high level of protection of national rights in Slovenia, they are an important element, i.e. an equivalent one, also a Member of indigenous national communities, which is also true, but in the case of a party-formed Government of the Member of the National Communities, the languages on the scale, according to our assessment under the circumstances in question, should not be. The fact is that the Member of the People's Communities is not an integral part of either the coalition or the opposition. Therefore, we believe that if our vote were to be decisive in determining the client or ideological color of the coalition, it would certainly not be good, nor democratic and even less encouraging in view of the important tasks that await us all together. So, as I pointed out, we announced this right after the election and stressed that we want a stable coalition. If this happens, it supports her in all her efforts if, of course, the proposals are substantively acceptable to us. Therefore, if the clearly expressed unequivocal majority is provided and the requirements of the National Communities are met under the Coalition Treaty, it is desirable and appropriate that we also provide our support. It was also correct that the candidate for a term of office had been offered to the relative winner of the elections. However, we do not agree with the suggestion that the responsibility for the election of a mandate holder may also be on the burdens of Members of indigenous national communities. This is certainly not the case, and so is the case. To conclude, our expectation is from a possible government coalition, which also stems from the constitutional obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to commit itself to consistently respect and exercise all the rights already guaranteed by the Constitution and the sectoral laws in favour of the preservation and development of the Hungarian and Italian national communities. Accordingly, they should ensure the functioning of national organisations and institutions in all areas at least at the current level. The coalition partners should also commit themselves to taking into account and respecting the specific situation of indigenous national communities in spite of the extremely difficult economic and financial situation in the preparation of proposals or budgets. Finally, it is of utmost importance that the coalition commits itself to the adoption of the Act on the Autonomous Hungarian and Italian National Communities, which will systematically upgrade the exercise of national rights within the existing constitutional framework, and to the unequivocal possibility of autonomous decision-making of self-government national communities in matters of vital importance for their existence and development. If the proposed coalition is elected now, I believe they will respect it, and I wish them great happiness on their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer (Positive Slovenia).
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable candidate for Commissioner Zoran Jankovic, Members and Members of Parliament, Guests and Media! Voters and voters decided to support the changes in the early state elections. New political parties and movements have entered the political scene, including the new client Zoran Janković Positive Slovenia. Among them, voters have given us the greatest responsibility for the changes over the next four years. As the party that adopted the highest percentage of votes in the elections, we have the responsibility, as it were said, to assume the position of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the President of the Party of the List of Zoran Jankovic of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic. In Positive Slovenia, although we are a new political party on the political scene at national level, we are fully aware of all these new tasks that are ahead of us at this moment, especially because the expectations of voters and voters are high. The Council, the European Union and Slovenia are in a deep economic, political and social crisis. For us, therefore, the victory in the elections is the beginning of the hard work in the mandate ahead of us. We will try to justify this confidence of the electorate and the electorate, which led the voters mainly to hope for a better tomorrow, to overcome political divisions and to reach the consensus for the breakthrough that Slovenia urgently needs at this time. Mr Zoran Jankovic is, in our opinion, the right candidate for the leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at a time when we are facing the financial, economic crisis of the world dimension and when we will have to make important decisions not only to calm the economic and financial situation but also to make decisions that will be the basis for a new social breakthrough. All of these situations, which require a leader who is prepared to engage in thorough discussions to find common solutions to the issues we are asking about our development, a leader who understands social partnership, the importance of dialogue as a way to achieve high motivation and the involvement of people in solving the serious situations we are in. The man who has shown in various functions that he is able to find consensus with those with whom he is also involved is, in our opinion, the person who can and can take responsibility for the implementation of social development, the consensus to deal with the situation that led us to the principle of Capital in front of people. Someone who has proved that the growth of the company is not more important to him than the satisfaction of the employees, someone who has proved that he realizes that the prices of development projects should not be paid by a marginal group, someone who is aware of the responsibilities of the socially weak, who is the one who at the moment can be entrusted with the management of the government, because he has proved by his past actions and has shown that he takes into account all social groups, even the weakest. Such a way of action has also been shown by the proposed mandate-holder's conduct in the negotiations on the composition of the coalition – although some people today feel that this has not been the case – where he has proved that he is willing to talk to everyone more than once, because he did not want the quality of the decisions to suffer at the expense of the rush of divorces. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that we all, regardless of our political affiliation, are aware of the fact that at this moment time is an extremely precious good. As the candidate for Prime Minister is aware of this, he did not wait for the formal appointment of the President of the Republic, but only for confirmations, at least or as requested, of the 46th Members and Members of this Assembly. Mr Zoran Jankovic acted differently. The only way he knows him. He identified the problem, sought a solution for it, reconciled it with all stakeholders, both the social partners and representatives of political parties, and achieved what Slovenian policy has not been able to achieve in the last year. I am speaking, of course, of the intervention law, whose adoption is the basis for the work of any government, which, hopefully, will act as soon as possible in its full composition, with full powers. So if we are aware of the situation we are in, and at the same time take into account the results of the elections, if we are aware of the challenges ahead of us, and if we are aware of the fact that someone has already taken them into account and resolved them, then another question remains for this assembly today, and this is whether we are able to understand the reality of this moment and Mr Zoran Jankovic to elect the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I can also conclude with the fact that we are living in a world of modern technology and that, during the introductory discussions, we are both a candidate for the mandate and representatives of the groups of Members, in fact, we can see that a kind of obstruction of the elections is actually being prepared. In the democratic process, we can say that everything is allowed, but I think that the message of voters and voters is clear, and it is true that we, Members and Members of Parliament, are also aware of all of us, who today decide that it is right and to assist you with Article 82 of the Constitution, which speaks to whom Members and Members are actually committed. And with that, I hope for reason and judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Mr Zoran Jankovic from the National Assembly for President of the Government, I am opening a debate on Members and Members. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Roman Jakič, Positive Slovenia. However, Mr Franz Breznik, Slovenian Democratic Party, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! What we demonstrate in Slovenian politics in the last month, including the announced obstruction of today's vote, is bad for our citizens, our country and, of course, its international reputation. It's also bad for our common motivation. But I imagined today that I would avoid later criticism, to talk only about the candidate, the agenda item, the proposal by the President of the country and why I believe or know that Mr Jankovic is a good candidate for Prime Minister. Perhaps I will start in a strange way, trying to respond to all the so - called fears that cling to his name in this society. One of them is that he's not trustworthy. See, if this were the case, if I had taken away all the experience that we have with him for a long time, if that were the case, his representative unions would not have listened to and trusted him to solve the issue by the end of June, and the police union would not have given up on Zoran Jankovic's word. Another such fear is that there is an alphabet in politics that does not understand this policy. Everyone's got positives and everybody's got negatives. The fact that he is not a politician, some have a negative side for him, and I think that's his positive feature. In fact, he is a new face in Slovenian politics. Well, I knew I'd attract smiles on your faces. Zoran Jankovic's state policy has not yet. The vast majority of us in this hall and political life have had time and opportunity to prove themselves, not yet. Therefore, he needs to be given the opportunity to show all his abilities. Remember that he talked about it in the campaign that Slovenia is the best and most beautiful country in the world. That's not a floscule for him. Because he really believes that, let's give him a chance to live it. I am sure that he will do everything possible to achieve this status of Slovenia, as he has achieved in the capital of this country, for which beauty and development we are all proud. But the opponents will say, "He is authoritarian and arrogant to his fellow workers and has no social sense." To his team or as he says to his family, besides his personal to Mercator, to MOL and List of Positive Slovenia, he is in fact strict a protective. Maybe that's why we like to sing, but please don't comment, hey brigade, because his company, solidarity, tolerance, unity and courage are close. There's no arrogance in that. He is caring and exemplary toward his families, so - called families. For example, we might say how many of us are willing to give up paying our wages and to tie them to a percentage of people’s satisfaction with the job. Whether he has a social sense, it is necessary to ask the multitudes of people who came every first Tuesday of the month on the day of the open door of his mayor's office. To many of his own pockets, he settled unpaid bills. He once told me that he had distributed up to 30,000 euros a year. Of course you'll say, "You can, because it's got millions." Yes, he does, and he earned them because he believed in his company, his Mercator, and the vision that he and the team drew when he took over this trading network. Just as he believes in Slovenia and in the government's positive crisis resolution programme. And again, someone will say, it's a materialistic and egotistical intention to be a leader. Yes, if that were the case, I suppose I would not be trying to gain millions of euros in funding and donations from private companies for the needs of Ljubljana kindergartens, primary schools, sports clubs and other public, including church, institutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have observed on one of the social networks that Zoran Jankovic cannot be the Prime Minister of the Government because he walks in an old jacket of puffs and doesn't have a computer. As far as the jacket is concerned, she is, as I know, proud to wear, because the inscription of Slovenia is on it and the Slovenian handball team at the 2004 European Championship in Ljubljana has won a medal. As for the computer, he doesn't really need it if you ask me, he doesn't need the office, because he's always on the ground, always among people who see hope in him. And we need hope in Slovenia, because motivation also comes with it, and motivation is the driving force of every society. I hope that you will take into account in the vote on the mandate holder that the candidate is trustworthy, that he has demonstrated the ability to lead, that he brings something new into Slovenian politics, that he is a team man, that he likes to listen to people, that he has a social sense and that he is a proud citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, it has a vision and positive energy to help this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u21	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter, Social Democrats. But get ready to be a magician. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u22	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Mr Zoran Jankovic, candidate for the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Members and Members! The memory of the people has not yet been lost on December 4th, when more than a thousand candidates and candidates for Members and Members and more than twenty political parties competed for the vote of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We have presented ourselves with our programme, with a programme that has put on equality of citizens and equality between citizens and citizens, which has put emphasis on strengthening the institutions of the rule of law that have put on development, on sustainable development and on the social cohesion of Slovenian society. And we could talk about what we wrote in the program. The coalition agreement or coalition agreement or coalition commitment, as we call it, cannot be a glue to the various client programmes that decide to participate in the government. Therefore, I see the initial coalition commitment as a document that finds agreement on the key guidelines for the functioning of the country over the next period. This means that it does not contain everything that we have written in our programme, including the Social Democrats, but it is enough that we can accept as a basis for taking responsibility for participating in the government, in which we will not be the strongest party, but, given the election result, we are prepared to bear our part of the responsibility. And that's exactly what I'd like to refer to. The President of the State, and his proposal for a mandate-holder will be decided today by secret ballot, said that he is a good path for action in the coming period of recognition of electoral results. And that is what each of us must take into account and realize in doing so that when I surround "for" today as a mandate holder, I will not do as those who have voted differently as I do, and as the party I belong to. And as a Member, I have received such calls at my address to support the mandate holder as well as to not support him. But since I know that the Constitution imposes on me the responsibility to speak with my voice, I will also use this opportunity today and vote as the entire Group of the Social Democrats will vote, which, after all, we also have a mandate to lead the party. For the coalition commitment that will follow this parish, we will also gain other consensus, which is essential under our Statute and the functioning of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u23	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get Mr. Roberto Battelli ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members, welcome! Mr Jankovic will probably be able to confirm that Nova Slovenija has always played open cards. From the very beginning, when we came to your office and we talked, we made clear what we are talking about, what we are talking about, and that you cannot count on our support today in this vote. And that's what we're behind. However, we have found that our values are slightly too different. Nevertheless, we have never denied you the opportunity and opportunity to give you the first chance to form this government coalition. And today you have it. Of course, the responsible party, which Nova Slovenija is, expects to somehow tell you what it is if you say no to someone. Then what's next? We made that clear, too. We want right-centre government coalitions. Many of you are repeating today, and also those who have come to Mr Jankovic and asked him to run for office in today's day often say that this possible right-centre government coalition would not have legitimacy. But the parliamentary system is such that any government coalition that has a majority in this House also has legitimacy. We have received numerous calls to take into account the electoral results. On this basis, President Türk decided. But if we should follow this strictly, I remind you once again of our constitution and of Article 82, which states that Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions, not to the instructions of the President of the Republic and not to the instructions of Matthew Kožuh Novak, who wrote a letter to the Members today and asked us to support you. Therefore, the Messengers are not bound to guidance. If you were bound by the instructions of the President of the Republic, then it would mean that if the President of the Republic gave you a mandate, then you would be the mandate holder. But the mandate holder is the one who gets the majority in this House. And one more thing about the election results. These things are always so that you can see a glass or half empty or half full. If we look at the political history of the time when Positive Slovenia came into existence, then of course the matter is relatively clear. He knows who the relative winner is. However, if we look at the whole story a little wider and compare the electoral results of 2008 with the electoral results of 2011, and if we say just across the thumb that customers like Positive Slovenia, SD, Zares, LDS are placed on the left, and if we say that customers such as NSI, SDS and SLS are placed on the right midpoint, then you find that from 2008 to 2011, the left centre lost 5 mandates and the right centre gained three mandates during this period. These are also electoral results. In the end, that's all I want to say. If Mr Jankovic succeeds, we wish him good luck and we can count on our correctness. But if he fails today, then I expect and hope that there will be a right-centre government coalition as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Roberto Battelli. Let's get the mags ready. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our views were very comprehensive and very clearly discussed by colleague Göncz. I wanted to talk about something that's following these events and I think it's important to say. I'm talking about public pressure. The public pressures we are witnessing are actually embodying part of a policy that has been running for decades and, in particular, and unfortunately, within the so-called left. It is characterized by intolerable paternalism, which despises any political profiling of minorities if it does not prohibit it, because it sees it in total submission to its interests. There are no concessions here, as they would mean a change in the practice of flight, a threat to monolith. Moreover, the label of the MP's views on the current political developments as a deviant thinking borders on insult and hate speech worth the charge, probably. The quintessence of this paternalist, slave policy, which erases any dignity of minority members and prevents them from freely integrating into society, is a public call for the lynching of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and a call for accountability to the Slovenian public. And that indicates the state of the spirit in this land. It's got old roots. As regards the Italian national community, that population had to be dehumanised there first and then implemented until the mid-50s. And this scheme continues in different forms, of course with bright exceptions. And let me also publicly thank the President of the Republic for yesterday's words. I'll be done. Believe me, at this point Slovenia is in Europe, in a circle that shares the values that have emerged from the horrors of the two wars, parts of this value, and such an attitude towards minorities and minorities is unacceptable. Politics must be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Melita Zupevc has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hope! This word can describe a large part of the mood of citizens and citizens of the last week. I was sitting in this same hall when the idea of early elections was born last year, which is the only possible and legitimate, the only real traveler for Slovenia tomorrow, the only real start, a new start. Elections as the ultimate reflection of democracy have given answers. This is Slovenia, these are the values, these are the people we see at the head of our country, written colors, various promises and commitments entered the election game. And people have chosen. Today, there can be no discussion as to whether the right person has won or whether the right party has won. It is legitimate for the parties today to decide, according to their own judgement, which coalition the government believes is offering the right solutions. But let them answer their own question whether it is legitimate and fair that they have put the country's interest first in the electoral campaign and today the interest of functions. Patience, solidarity, cooperation. This is our passport for the term we have ahead of us. Positive Slovenia has written ambitious goals in its programme and draft coalition agreement because we know we know we can and have potential. Not just us, but citizens and citizens and our country as such. Economic performance can also be built by maintaining solidarity, so that Slovenia remains among countries where income inequality has increased dramatically. I would like to send a positive message from the National Assembly today, a message that we have put the country, citizens and citizens first, and not political parties, a message that we respect the expressed will of voters and voters on December 4th, a message that we are ready to face the economic and financial challenges ahead of us immediately. Today, it has been heard that the problem is that there is not the same or the right concept among the parties. What is the concept of political parties sitting in this Parliament, political parties performing in the Slovenian political space? I think we all have the same concept and the right concept, it is, to live better, to carry out reforms, pension, health and other, to start an economy and encourage investments. There's no other concept and there can't be. And there's no difference between us here. Today, there was also talk of responsibility. When we talk about responsibility, let us ask what is the situation today in Slovenia, what is the decline in the rating, what is the second year or year after that economic growth, what is today the number of unemployed? To talk about responsibility is also a responsibility to accept. Earlier, the leader of the parliamentary group had mentioned that today some people are going to abstain from voting. If I may just explain, some of the media have reported which parties do not intend to take the votes and do not intend to vote for Zoran Jankovic today. I don't think that's a word or an idea of what responsibility means. I wish what the media is reporting today wasn't true. To recognize that responsibility means making decisions, such as that, for or against. That's it. You said today that you do not deny Zoran Jankovic the opportunity to form a government. That's not true. By saying no, you're giving him the chance. I wish today would be a positive day for the decision to be a positive one. Above all, that everyone sitting in this House has many new faces, I am sure they understand what responsibility it is. I accept my responsibility and my voice, Zoran Jankovic, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Bevk only has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the pre-election campaign of September 2008 we did not even talk about the great economic and financial crisis, although the outgoing government of Janez Janša was here, it did not recognise the crisis. We all lived in the illusion of fat cows and cheap money. Today we all know we're at a historic turning point. It will depend on the ability to quickly form a government and to act effectively and the ability of the national assembly and the new government to emerge from the crisis as winners or losers. Since we are very quickly forgetting, I would just like to remind you that in the first year of its operation from November 2008 to November 2009, the Borut Pahor government adopted 1,258 regulations, namely 159 from the powers of the National Assembly, 389 from the powers of the Government and 710 from the powers of the ministries. In addition, in 2009 the Government and the National Assembly adopted two rebalancings of the 2009 budget, with the deepening of the world's largest financial and economic crisis, and 60 other anti-crisis and austerity measures aimed at the financial sector, the economy and the population. Measures have been taken to help preserve many jobs and to provide assistance to the socially weak. Why did I give you this information? Due to the fact that we, without a government with full powers since September last year, even though the Social Democrats had proposed a reconstruction of the government at that time, most political parties in the National Assembly have decided differently. So we lost precious months to act. For a month now, let us deal with the election of the Prime Minister and the formation of the government itself. After the 1996 elections, this process took as many as one hundred and sixteen days. I'm sure we can at least halve this period. The times are no less dramatic than in 2009, so it is in our common interest to elect Zoran Jankovic today as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and to form a ministerial assembly as soon as possible. I am sure that this is also expected by the vast majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The coalition commitment, which was initialled at the end of last week with coalition partners, is a good enough document and a benchmark for crisis and project action in the mandate ahead of us. As one of the key objectives we have set ourselves to raise the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to achieve stable economic growth by new investments by the end of the mandate, thereby reducing the gap between the development of Slovenia and the European Union. Among other things, this will be achieved through major infrastructure and energy projects. Let me mention only the 3rd, 3rd and 4th development axis, which will bring Kočevsko, Koroška, White Krajina, Idrijska, Cerkljanska and Upper Soča to the heart of Slovenia. I will, of course, support Commissioner Zoran Jankovic today, and I hope that we will have this opportunity in the next step and can also support his ministerial assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor, then Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u32	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! In Parliament, all the events and all the words that are said are important, today we could say that it is very important. The situation and the situation we're in after the elections will be compared to the tournament of sports teams. Not because I'd like to make a less serious situation, but the other way around. There were several teams at the tournament calming down, some because of their long-standing internships and the recognition of their main players, while others were unrecognizable and new on the sports scene, and slightly more in a different way, but perspective and attractive. The more the tournament came to an end, the more the viewers were interested in watching sports, in some cases slightly less sporting events, and in particular they were enthusiastic about single players and teams. The tournament ended, the new team with almost completely unrecognizable players won the winners' pleasure. From now on, viewers went home to watch the team's favorite game with new players who have the opportunity to participate in the most elite league in the Champions League. But look at the fragment! After coming home, they found out that immediately after the team's lead game, they had a secret professional consultation and found out that there were untapped players on the winning team who had not gone through the already-escaped way of training. Sportsmen on the field were acting unexpected, sort of foreign. Their clothes and jerseys were unusual, but the worst of all was the knowledge that the winning team did not have the right strategy, so it is unlikely that it will be successful in major competitions, where experience and specific strategies will decide to prevent the opponent and so on. This is why they decided that the new team was a relative winner, which means that it won only on the sports field, and at all other venues it was not a match for already-confirmed teams and players. Those who have read and read some literature, and we do not know just how to count it, can draw a parallel to events that have taken place and are still taking place in our political space. But we need to know that people want to play fair games and especially honest work, so they are willing to work hard and work hard. Your Honor! The president of our country isn't just being a person. He has a high reputation among people in our country and also on the international stage, so it is worth listening to his words and initiatives, which he gives in the long and true way. Citizens and citizens who have chosen us and entrusted us with the mission to lead the country have made a clear and unequivocal message at the elections: they want change. I am sure you will do the right thing if you support and support Zoran Jankovic for the mandate of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia today. I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u33	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Pavlič has the floor, then Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! After us are the first early elections in which we were entrusted with the responsibility of all the nineties Members. This task has given us the people, for it has given us great confidence in responsible decisions. The President of the State has decided to give a mandate to a relative winner in the elections. In doing so, he has transferred a great deal of responsibility to our President, Mr Zoran Jankovic. With this, of course, the confidence of the people remains with us Members, because the people in the elections have entrusted us with a responsible task, they want to work for the good of the countries and the citizens. If we intend to delay the election of the mandate holder, it will not be good for anyone. I ask you to vote for the term of office and do not block the election. This election is actually going to be the beginning of change, because we all want to start working on the problems that we have actually been elected to do. People want changes in economic areas, people want support, social support for people who are in poor shape to start our responsible reforms in these difficult and unpredictable times. The economy and citizens do not have time for party overtures and possible early elections. Once again, I urge you to think responsibly before you decide for the good of the country, not for your own and your own party interests. Vote for the term, I'll do it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, welcome to my side too! I am pleased to be able to hold such an important session for the first time when we love the mandate holder. I note that so far the debate is going on properly, democratically, despite tension and differing opinions, and I would like to see them continue to do so in the future. In turn, I invite Mr Happy Meh of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u36	Dear Members! We are doing what we are doing here in the Slovenian Parliament today, or we should do what voters and voters expect us to do. The position of the Group of Social Democrats you have heard, has been presented and there is nothing to add on my part. But I would like to say something about what you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues have said today, and to remind us of what voters and voters and citizens expect from us. First, when we talk about election results, about left and right, about the environment, about who someone is. Above all, we are Members of the Slovenian State and are defined as left and right also on the basis of the results of the elections we have received. And the voters decided unequivocally to give their support, as we do in Parliament – we have a relative winner. Voters and voters have clearly said that because of what has happened in the past three or four years, they are expecting changes. The amendments were announced by different votes of the parties, including those of the party of which I am a member, to the Social Democrats. This is why it is extremely important today to talk about the problems that concern our country and our development, not that we are primarily talking about the problems of each individual. Of course, it is very important what a problem some of us have, but it is important that we save the country as a whole. And if we want to do good to our country, then it is right to get a government, a mandate-holder as soon as possible, to get a successful government, as well as a capable government that can work, but not as some have already said that we have been working for 200 days with a government that does not have full powers. When we talk today about a government that some of you don't support, which you have all the right to talk about, and you talk about a right-centred government, excuse me, who are we excluding when we talk today about who should lead the country? We, honourable Members and Members, the government we will define, the right-centre option or the left-centre option, left or right? This is not the most important question, honourable Members and Members, the most important question is that we understand what the electorates and voters have told us and so do we. To shoulder our share of responsibility, as do workers and workers who cannot put an end to it, as do pensioners and pensioners, young and unemployed, disabled people, as well as national communities, and all of whom we have talked about today. It is therefore of paramount importance that we understand this moment, which Slovenia bloodyly needs, in order to try to get at least a little out of these party frameworks, in which we have become so damned that we cannot actually get out of them. So once again, I appeal and try to say that we are committed to our constituents and voters, that we are committed to what we said before the elections and say that we will do – that we will cooperate, that we will be constructive, that we will be able to get the government. It takes us too long to talk and talk, and we can say, too long, but if we don't make a quick decision, it's going to take longer. This is our responsibility, and I absolutely believe that Mr Zoran Jankovic, Commissioner, has been given the mandate of the electorate and the electorate to have my vote and our vote. And everything you say today about what is wrong, what has happened in the past, what has happened in the past, what has happened to Slovenia, what we have been up against – we could have done to many people here, including Mr Zoran Jankovic, what he has done and I could not agree with him. But, I'm sorry, he got the legitimate votes of the electorate and the electorate, so it's only right that we understand this will and give him our support. This is our role to understand what Slovenia needs right now. Once again: it needs a government, effectively, successfully, in which we will participate and where everyone will go at least a little beyond what he thinks is only right, whether it is the right party, the left side or the left. Perhaps there will be another opportunity to determine exactly which is the right and which is the left party. However, I think that we are all in Parliament, where we are taking a decisive step today to ensure that Slovenia remains a successful country or that it will become, if not today, and that it will be more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u37	My word, Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš from Positive Slovenia. Get Mr. Aloysius Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! The time ahead is difficult for politicians and citizens. I don't even want to repeat that unemployment in some parts of Slovenia has reached or even exceeded the magic 16%, that for a wide system of social justice is utopia, a battle for a free package. There can be no question in this story whether we can work together, but the fact that we need a credible government, and we need it now. I therefore believe that it is not good to seek excuses for programming differences or ideological divisions. For I also believe in the proverb that he who does not intend to do something seeks excuses, and that he who is willing to do something will find the way. It's 90 of us. 90 who have given us a mandate to decide on their behalf or our common destiny. Today, we are tailors, not only to correct what has begun to be broken in the 20-year history of a single country, but today we are tailors who are shaping our common future. If politics is in a bad voice, and in recent weeks we have helped a lot to deepen this belief, we can today show that we are capable of drawing new values at this level that will guide our common social development. I don't believe in coincidence. In these days, the European capital of culture under the slogan Turning point begins in Maribor and in some Slovenian cities. Let this be a symbolic moment, dear fellows and colleagues. It is time for a policy of corporate social responsibility, so we need a decision on responsibility, which in general means responsibility for the results of political action. We consciously set out on that path. We really know it won't be easy. The President of Positive Slovenia, Zoran Jankovic, the candidate for the prime minister of the new government, was optimistic and responsible in negotiating and adapting his or her electoral programme to the demands, ideas and visions of all potential coalition partners. I therefore find it difficult to think that among the 90 people who have the power to make decisions, antipathy rules because it is a negative destructive emotion. I'd rather say that our views, despite the arrangements, remained slightly different. But we will be virtuous at the time, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we act with virtue and in spite of different viewpoints, act in the interests of the state. President DeSUS said today that Zoran Jankovic has a lot of courage. Courage is needed. Sometimes it's a dream, too. Undoubtedly for action, for progress. Also because Zoran Jankovic has courage, he does not deviate from his promises and from his responsibility. So we have a lot of obligations ahead of us, so there's not and there won't be time for each other's dispersion, color distinction, let alone resentment. It will be necessary to step together and help the country of Slovenia to recover from the global crisis in which it is located in the common European space. Here, at a time when we live and shape the fate of our future, an absolute, indispensable consensus is needed for all those who have been given confidence in the elections. Therefore, it does not matter which ideologically colored parties, left- centred, right-centred ones, were lost in the past. People gave a clear signal. This signal was also transmitted to the National Assembly by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Danilo Türk. Today we decide which path we will take in the future. I am in favour of following the path of positive values, as the candidate for Prime Minister has said today: "To work better and to live better." Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, the conscience upon which a person is obliged to act, is said to be an undeserved gift of God. But it is also a judgment of human reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u39	Mr Aloji Potočnik from Positive Slovenia has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Klasinc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Something about crises, rule in them, and what goes on today's occasion. In doing so, I will rely on the thinking of some established authors of developed democracies, so that I will not invent warm water and originality. First, a few words of the urgent introduction. There must be two of the most important questions ahead of us. First time. What is the decisive design error of systems that are affected by the symptoms of inability to rule? And a second time. What are the arguments against the success of the strategies we are proposing? First, on the inability to rule, which we are not only talking about as a country, but also the whole world. And not just in recent years. In fact, there is a particular case of the general pathology of social systems, or otherwise, and closer – social systems cannot be ruled if the rules followed by their members violate the necessary functioning laws that are applicable to them. Let me remind you of a previous reference, a depraved black job. A very instructive, very conspicuous and very expensive experience. In this context, the difference between people's expectations and political administrative capacity, the ability to govern, is an important fact. This is also the case because there is an increasing difference between the scope of the requirements and the orientation capacity. And there are many known mechanisms against this more or less well-known fact, this inevitable phenomenon. First, the institutions of social control, then the mechanism of filtration of wishes, then the reduction of the so-called effect of party competition, which fuels inflation among people, as well as the international transfer of normative requirements, for example from the European Union and so on, and could also include. But the fact is, as we see, that this is an important argument of complexity when the number of strategic items is exponentially increasing, while at the same time we are dealing with the country's comprehensive steering capacity. To emphasise, the thinking and experience of the world and the developed democracies show that entering from a narrow mind into an enlarged consciousness is only possible at the level of society if the basis of consensus and thus the ability to absorb conflicts can be extended. In other words, interdependence can be duly taken into account and long-term policies can only be designed when it is successful to consolidate and harmonise the consensus base. Dear colleagues! The real and timely expansion of the action-oriented capacity, the ones we need, of state policies, can be successful only when its constituents are economic, social and political alliances. The agreement, to repeat, is therefore a decisive political milestone through which the aforementioned interconnective consciousness must pass. At the same time, this is also the greatest contribution, if I may emphasise, to stabilisation under conditions of competitive party democracy, with which, as you can see today, we have great problems. This should be recalled now or at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u41	I invite Mrs Janjo Klasinc to the floor and then Mr Jožef Horvat is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u42	Madam Vice-President, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Jankovic, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! I admit that I've prepared some theses in advance that I'd like to talk about, and I'll probably have to change my performance a lot because I don't want to repeat myself. A lot of people have already said a lot of things that I wanted to say myself. I would like to say again what the December 4 elections mean last year. No one has ever spoken, even though it was obvious to us that in Positive Slovenia we understood these elections as an absolute victory. No, no, no. But these elections are the absolute victory of a new one. The question is whether we will allow this victory in this House. What did the voters tell us? Voters said they mostly don't want old faces. Let's see, there are many new people among us, few of us who have come from the previous reference, and they have placed even greater trust in today's candidate for a terminator who has brought them some new hope. Why hope? Because of the fact that, let’s face it, they were tired of the old political faces and the faces that had been promising so far, they had failed to do many things. Many have failed, many have been partially successful, but people felt that something needed to be changed. And that's why I think that this hope, this expectation of people, must be given the opportunity. Several colleagues and colleagues spoke today in debates about these openings See, in fact we were not elected in these elections for this reason. Why are so many women elected? Because of the expectation that all women are more practical, we may also be able to talk calmly, perhaps they were expecting us to try to bridge a number of problems for women. So, dear fellows, let's try to work this way. I would like to say something about these recent experiences in coordinating the coalition agreement. I have found that when I read all client programmes before the elections and also now potential coalition partners, we have very similar priorities. This is completely understandable because we know what is limping and what is necessary in Slovenia and in Europe. Of course, we see different ways to achieve these goals. And it is Mr Jankovic who has proved in his current career that he can coordinate these different views. Mr Jankovic is able to compromise, although many say that this is not true. However, there is one quality that many of us do not have or do not have, one great determination when compromise is concluded. And that's what Slovenia needs today. I would just like to say for the end another brief anecdotes of how I met Mr Jankovic. He probably doesn't even know it. We met six years ago at Mercator hypermarket when we met a mutual friend, and after two minutes, he left us with a warning from a Mercator employee that there was a problem with a cashier. You know, Mr Jankovic was chairman of the board at the time. Tell me how many CEOs are going to help their employee right now and listen to his problem. You know, there aren't many people like that among all of us, and I think we should build on that. We should be building on him to listen to everyone. Mr Jankovic held regular meetings with his citizens in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Anyone who came to him, from a completely anonymous man to a possibly influential man, ran into understanding and open ears. But look, this is our mission. Isn't this the mission of every Member and politician to help people? I assure you after these brief experiences with Mr Jankovic that he is ready to listen to everyone, including those who may think he does not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u43	Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music, is preparing himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished candidate for the new Slovenian government's term of office, Mr Zoran Jankovic! Slovenia fell to the lowest level in all its history in last year's anniversary year. After Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we have continuously recorded growth, and Slovenia has climbed European and global scales measuring the country's performance. Slovenia has taken over the euro as the first of the new Member States of the European Union, and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008 has been a great recognition for us and the conclusion of our long journey home to Europe. This was the time when Slovenian politicians received recognitions and awards. Not at home, but in Europe. Despite the fact that, for understandable reasons, confidence in politics has fallen dramatically that it has been desirable to manipulate statements, 'I am not and will never be a politician', despite the fact that a new social paradigm, 'down with political parties', was well sold on the public market, that is to say, down with democracy, despite the fact that the Members of the Council last September went through enough wisdom and ended the agony and opened the door to a new power which would logically be a completely different authority. And in this place, it is appropriate for those Members to give all recognition. Europe, in particular a large number of citizens, expected Slovenia to follow normal political logic and replace inefficient power, as other European countries have recently done and co-designed Europe's new political map. This has not happened in Slovenia. On the initiative and under the tactics of the old and European surviving political forces, there was a propaganda that promised the voters unfulfilled. It was therefore a solution to the old option, not to the rescue of Slovenia. Therefore, in the election match, the focus was not on the state's rehabilitation programme and the vision for the common Slovenian thing, but on the programme against the opponent, against the right. And it's so obvious today. For 20 years we have been facing a Slovenian democratic defect. Dear candidate for the term of office, Mr Zoran Jankovic! In New Slovenia we recognize your relative victory in last year's early elections. You were trusted by a quarter of the voters and a good three percentage points more. Since the beginning of our talks, we have honestly told you that you cannot count on us in the coalition. Do not take these decisions of New Slovenia as an angry opposition to your party, even less to you personally, but to conclude that we have different views on the development of Slovenian society and country, and that this difference would probably have a bad impact on the stability of the coalition. After some of the first lessons in the National Assembly, it must have been time for you to acknowledge that you are a politician. We need politics in the first ministerial place. Managers, and good, are essential at lower levels of executive power. Of course, we also have many common views, and we build on these together. Maybe in the opposition, maybe in the Alliance for Slovenia. Personally, I'm very fond of you because I know what your family means to you, I know that it's sacred to you, as it is to me. All 90 of us here have the duty to create permanent equal opportunities for all Slovenian families in the educational, social and business fields. We are also united in the belief that Slovenia has the most beautiful capital in the world. You have great personal merit in that regard. I regret, however, that in your programme, according to the logic of the most beautiful capital, you did not write that Slovenia will have the most beautiful rural areas at the end of its term of office. The countryside, Mr Jankovic, I am thinking mainly of that 200 km away from the capital, to the country near Mura, is now in intensive care and is struggling to survive daily. If you are entrusted with running the government, please, I really ask that you carefully monitor the sale of the last state-owned operators in Prekmurje. You have been thoroughly informed about this. I'm talking about a business system built by our fathers and grandfathers. We're connected to him existentially and emotionally. In your presentation, you have disappointed me and you yourself have found that you have spoken little about the European Union. I must say that I expected you to provide us with possible informal discussions with politicians who have charisma in the European Union and a vision of a way out of the crisis. I want a candidate for a terminator to be a better team player to create a strong enough team. A team that will be fair and fair before efficiency. I conclude with our last thought together, a common vision. Like Positive Slovenia, Nova Slovenija also spoke about hope before the elections. Let us return to the hope of Slovenia, and to be honest. My support for your candidacy, Mr Jankovic, will not be because Novi Slovenija has not even sent a coalition agreement, as you say, nor has Nova Slovenija initialled it. But I will vote as always – in my conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u45	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music has the floor. Then get ready for Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u46	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Ludmila Novak, distinguished colleague and colleague! I come from the coast, where the electorate and the electorate have clearly defined who we want as the mandate holder. And here I call: Good day Slovenia and happy Slovenia! We have an important and decisive moment ahead of us, and at the outset, let me throw away all the rumors, the esteemed Vice-President and colleagues and colleagues, that anyone in Positive Slovenia would offer or trade votes, as I have now received the information that we are offering. The problem is that in certain other parliamentary groups, where they do not allow, they do not allow individual Members and Members to decide themselves in a secret vote, which they want to vote on as their mandate holder. And that's what I'm worried about. The President of the State, Mr Danilo Türk, who represents the highest moral authority, gave the mandate to form the government of Zoran Jankovic, because, like many, he is aware of the seriousness of the situation in which our common country, which has been brought to the Barracks by eternal politicians and highly educated experts after 20 years of independence. In doing so, it is interesting that no one feels responsible. Moreover, the most responsible have neither a moral cat nor a bad conscience. The pre-election promises of all parties were that they would be constructive and cooperative in times of crisis, whether in coalition or in opposition. Here I would like to reiterate and point out, as I once said, that Members and Members of the elections have not been given either victory or defeat, but, above all, a great responsibility to all citizens and citizens, to the most vulnerable, to children, to youth, to workers, to farmers, to pensioners and to our environment, to our villages, to our cities, to everything that surrounds us in this world and beyond. In the post-election period, I'm afraid I didn't notice. On the contrary. We have witnessed various plots and tactics, which grieves me. Still, it is never too late for positive thoughts and good deeds, for it is good to do good and good to return with good. That is why all Members and Members are cordially invited to join the Alliance for Slovenia. Trust your voice to the operative, capable and proven efficient economist Zoran Jankovic. It is better for the new mandate-holder, given these findings, that he needs to learn from day to day and learn from politics rather than to learn from economics and business legality. With the possible obstruction announced, there is a lack of confidence in its Members and Members and the inadmissibility of the deprivation of civil rights to Members and Members of Parliament to express their will in secret ballots. Let us restore hope and confidence in the state of Slovenia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u47	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues!, Mr candidate for a term of office, Mr Zoran Jankovic, I will also support your candidacy for three very pragmatic reasons. The first reason is that the electorate and the electorate have undisputedly communicated to whom they want for their term of office. Not those who have consistently demolished Borut Pahor's government for three years, but an option that inspires confidence and that is to move on. The second reason is because our programs are compatible. To some extent they are also reflected in the coalition contract, of course I would like them to reflect more. I have spent hours alone coordinating the coalition treaty, and I must say that everyone who had to step back has found content that satisfied everyone. That is why I am so much more surprised by the decision of our colleagues, who have been very persistent in imposing their solutions, especially the Members of Mr Virant's list. We have reached an agreement with them, and now we hear that this agreement, this coherence, is not sufficient. What's the compatibility? This compatibility is demonstrated by the fact that we are advocating coordinated economic and social development. What will be our economic success if we do not have any obedience to man, for his tribulations in which he lives today? Its advantage is that it advocates pension, health reform in the way we advocated it in our party, but we have not been successful in these social conditions. I am confident that with the current negotiation, understanding the objective situation we are in, we will find a common language. And I could count it. It may also be that we are working together to ensure that social differences between the poor and the rich do not increase. I recently read in Mr Kastelic's column that Mrs Margaret Thacher's greatest success was that she managed to increase the risk of poverty in her mandate. We didn't see any other results. That is why I am strongly opposed to such a policy, and I am in favour of the policy that we have also enshrined in the coalition treaty. Thirdly, the global situation.When the government of our President Borut Pahor fell, we made it very clear that our pre-Alpine state would deal too long with itself. We are also dealing with ourselves now, as if there are no tectonic movements and fatal consequences that will happen to our development and our country. We need the government as soon as possible, in accordance with the will of the voters, so I will support Mr Jankovic. And another thing, dear colleagues and colleagues, politics is not just a struggle for power, politics is also an action for public good. Remember that sometimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u49	Mr. Peter Wilphan has the word, and he needs to prepare himself for the mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u50	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President-in-Office! The decision to take part in this debate today fell to me just before today's meeting, for a simple reason, because I felt it was right to express my support to a man I have known for almost thirty-five years and with whom I have been working well and productively for the last five years. But I'll be brief and clear. Today, we decide whether a person who is proven capable, successful, working, energetic and, if necessary, authoritarian, but in that positive sense, will be given the opportunity to drive his team or government out of the extremely difficult situation in which he is in. We decide whether the will of the electorate in this country has its weight or its word or the decision of the President of the country, and we decide how this Parliament will work in the future or in this new mandate and composition. We also decide whether we will send a positive message to voters and voters that we are able to work together for the good of Slovenia, so that we can overcome the differences between us in at least as important a decision as today. I believe and I am sure that there are many among you, forgive me, among us, many who are able to overcome the dilemmas, obstacles, including vows imposed on you by party, ideological or any other commitment. That is why I call on you to vote, not obstruct, repeat, vote in your conscience and with your head and in particular in the interest of our citizens and citizens. Let us finish this story today and start a new one, just as voters and voters have chosen it. Let us begin to work, to create, and above all, to cooperate, and to respect one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u51	The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u52	I'm giving up the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u53	Then he's got the word "magic." Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, fellow Members, and the general public. Of course, I will support Mr Zoran Jankovic as a mandate-holder, not as the relative most likely, but as a real mandate-holder. However, there are many reasons for this, but I would like to point out, above all, those who have also favoured my decision to apply on the list of Positive Slovenia. Mr Zoran Jankovic has convinced me as someone I can trust because of all his work and results in the real sector, of course, in recent years also based on his work in the Municipality of Ljubljana, and he has convinced me in particular as a researcher and an expert in the field of social responsibility, such as someone who would say this, the European paradigm lives and works in his daily personal and professional life, meaning for the domestic care of his fellow man, the care of the environment or nature and the care for social development as such. It is not a coincidence that we also found the adjective "positive" in the title of the List of Zoran Jankovic or would say in the heading "Positive Slovenia", since we are all sitting here in this group – without exception, positively oriented. I am proud to be able to work within this group, which wants a better life for Slovenia in particular. Each of us has a professional career that we have faced with such or other obstacles. Many, including the media, see today's vote as a kind of obstacle, and personally not at all, because I see it as an opportunity where each of us can vote in terms of our personal conviction and opinion on the welfare of citizens and citizens who have expressed their majority support for the List of Zoran Jankovic, Positive Slovenia at this time. Today, therefore, courage and a surplus of partyism will apply, so I would like to vote in favour of the welfare of Slovenia. However, since I am also working in the field of health care or health care, let me somehow conclude my presentation or argument on why I will support the candidate for Mr Zoran Jankovic's term of office. A positive score means something negative only in health care, so I want a positive outcome in today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u55	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get Mrs. Renata Brunskole ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u56	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr candidate! The President of the Republic invited the National Assembly to elect Mr Zoran Jankovic as Prime Minister. In this way, the will of the electorate and the electorate is respected. Social Democrats understand this mandate given to Mr Jankovic in these difficult economic and social situations as a responsibility to ensure sufficient support for parliamentary political parties for his election as Prime Minister. Social Democrats will help with this with their 10 votes. In doing so, we would like to point out that support has never been and is not today self-evident. What led us in our decision on support? Firstly, the Social Democrats want Slovenia to receive full government, sufficient support in the National Assembly as soon as possible, because this is the only way to create the conditions for managing with great responsibility, where we together will have to seek the broadest possible support and social consensus if we are to push Slovenia forward. Secondly, the Social Democrats have cooperated intensively in the formulation of the content of the coalition commitment, which was made in the round of four parties that have managed to find common programme points and with the parishes have confirmed sufficient guarantees for the preservation of a social state based on a solidarity, fair society, which is crucial for us, the Social Democrats. Thirdly, the Social Democrats represent an important element of the country's competitiveness and stability of society. Our past actions confirm this. Social Democrats in particular in these difficult, general social situations are aware of the dangers of everything that our society, regret, shares and does not unite. Therefore, patience and constructiveness will be very important in finding the best solutions for our country for our common good. That is why we will and will vote for Jankovic myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u57	My word, Mrs. Renato Brunskole. Get Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Well greeted, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for Prime Minister! Today is a very important day for the Republic of Slovenia, for citizens and citizens who expect from us Members and Members of the National Assembly that, with the awareness of our current historical responsibility, in accordance with the Constitution, today we will elect the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Jankovic, or that we will today express our will, so that we will vote today, not as people report to me that it is stated in the media that some political parties or Members are thinking about not going to vote to sit in the Chamber and obstruct the vote. Some even cite, as some colleagues have previously mentioned, the opinion of the visible representatives of individual political parties on the charges against candidate Mr Zoran Jankovic, on the votes and so on. I believe that, at a given time, when people are listening to us today, someone even wrote: "Mrs. Member, we have elected you, we suggest that you don't vote at all. Neither Positive Slovenia, nor Coalition. What's that supposed to mean?" However, I am sure that here in this Chamber we are Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly who are extremely responsible. We are primarily accountable to our electorate and electorate, as I am to those from the White Country. I am sure that people who listen and observe us today cannot believe that someone can say that they will obstruct the vote. They probably don't believe that any of the presidents or visible representatives of individual political parties do whatever the accusers do. Here present lawyers, judges, or any experts in any particular field would probably be able to judge this, and I am not so subdued in this area alone. However, there have been some positive developments from today’s messages. One of them was a message from a retired teacher in the White Land who wrote to me, "I hope that reason will prevail today. That today it will only be decided as the voters have expressed their wish." The will of citizens and citizens was expressed. The man needed by Slovenia to lead the government must have a lot of work discipline, a lot of determination, perseverance, courage, a real vision in these times of crisis, while maintaining the confidence expressed by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the highest number of votes and the highest percentage. The polls and voters trusted Positive Slovenia and its President, Mr Zoran Jankovic, with the highest number of votes. That is why I propose that today we show respect and responsibility for us, Members and Members, to our electorates and voters, and each of us must think of them in particular. In fact, the result of the early elections has shown that we must give Mr Zoran Jankovic a chance and elect him President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And as Mr Zoran Jankovic stressed in today's presentation of the programme – if I understand correctly – that I did – and in the presentation of the programme he said that his mission as Prime Minister was to achieve the goals for the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of who is who. Let me finally quote Mr Zoran Jankovic's statement that his wish, his goal, his mission to "work better and live better" is to the benefit of all of us, which I am confident of. That is why I will certainly vote for Mr Zoran Jankovic as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u59	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Han ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the term of office! It is difficult to add something new at this time, something that would not be spoken in this room today. But let me give you some of my thoughts, and I hope you won't condemn me too much for that. It is almost in its own right that the party that obtained the highest percentage of votes also gets the opportunity and that the mandate holder. It is a little less self-evident that this party makes a good story about the coalition commitment and gets customers who are equally thinking and find their own part of the programme throughout the programme. It is also a little less self-evident that the candidate who is offered a mandate accepts this mandate, because it must be aware that our country in the situation in which it is, requires a lot of effort, a lot of courage, a lot of denial in order to develop further. I know my colleague Zoran Jankovic, and these are all the qualities he has. So I'm sure the country will lead well if this opportunity is given. When we are performing with a candidate for a mandate, we are not thinking or looking at how much the client or he personally will gain – nothing for himself, nothing for the client, no personal benefits. On the contrary, he has been offered hard, garage work, relentless denial and all that is necessary for the development and progress of our country in favour of citizens and citizens. This morning, when I left Koroška, which is repeatedly forgotten by God and Ljubljana, in which we are not and they are not, but the people who voted for the SDS are both for the National List, both for the SD, both for the Slovenian People's Party and for the same – trapped in a region that has suffered for a long time because it is underdeveloped and lacks its own strength and potential to help themselves. And in this country, when I leave and go to Ljubljana, I am accompanied by the worrying faces of all Korošice and Korošci and say, "For God's sake, stop playing and stop arguing and tear down this political sandstone and start working." And with this appeal today, I left Koroška to reach the conclusion of this agony in the National Assembly, which has been going on and on for a long time, as if there was a patient on the operating table, and there are doctors around him, and they're talking and complaining about how they're going to start the surgery while the patient is dying. And that is the opinion on the ground, that is the opinion in Koroška, and that is also the opinion in the membership of your parties that voted for you. And we should be aware of these responsibilities, the responsibility to roll up our sleeves at this point and to work for the good of citizens and citizens and for the good of the country, and to be present at a time when we are in some way deciding on some historic decisions. When I think about it, we unwittingly come to mind and in memory of those statements made by some political Februarys and champions after the elections, which were somehow appalled at the result they achieved, and immediately in the same breath, they also expressed regret at the same time that early elections would take place. Today, in these discussions, I fear that a scenario that I do not know is being implemented, a scenario that may be known to any of you sitting here: in this direction, blocking everything, paraging everything, not giving an opportunity to such well-intentioned and well-intentioned plans and strategies, and somehow bringing this scenario to an early election. You know, colleagues and colleagues, after all, it's also one of the options, one of the options. But you're probably all well aware that in the end there's an account. The bill is put out by the electorate and the electorate. They draw the line and reward or punish or punish those who misbehave at this time. I'm scared, and I wish it didn't come to that. I want you to find a way to bring our synergies together, and we will get to the guidance of this country as soon as possible. I probably don't have to repeat at the end of all that my support is absolute to the candidate for the mandate of Mr Zoran Jankovic, in whom I trust, I believe that hope is both for citizens and citizens, hope and opportunity for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u61	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. And get Mrs. Sasha Kos ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished candidate for the term of office Mr Jankovic! "Slovenia found itself in a complete political blockade, which poses a serious threat to the development of our society, at a time when legal and right decisions should be made effectively. Every day of the continuation of the current political agony is lost for Slovenia." My dears, this was part of one of the calls for early elections and could otherwise be used as an outline of the current situation. Although I would use more moderate tones, not so dramatic, for the events that follow every election, and this is just the usual thing. However, I do not start the discussion with the quote because I would like to get dizzy by the behaviour of its writers, but I would like to point out what we Social Democrats have warned us about when a handful of early elections began and with it the perspective of Slovenia is unstoppable to roll down the slopes, that is, that early elections alone will not save anything and will only be a waste of valuable time for an effective fight against uncertain social and economic circumstances. Despite the dramatic adjectives "the December 4th 2011 elections did not bring the expected radical break" that followed the political debates and the media. They didn't bring it! The generators or idea leaders of the idea of early elections, which had previously been gratified by failed government attempts to pull the country out of the crisis, were disappointed in the first beats after the election results were published, because the winner became Mr. Zoran Jankovic with his Positive Slovenia. It is true that his victory in elections under the proportional system is relative, but the emphasis on this, for a proportional system of still important fact, is rejuvenating the legitimacy of the winner to form a government coalition, yet the obvious will of the people does not change. It is also interesting that public research, which was an important reference to the opposition's work on the road to early elections, shows great support for the formation of a government led by Zoran Jankovic. Very interesting! However, the experience of early elections gives me the hope that, despite some of the first statements after the elections, we will make important decisions in the future with a greater degree of responsibility. Last but not least, I am pleased that in recent times in the public, the realization that the direction of the changes proposed by the Government of Borut Pahor has been the right one and that in the face of the crisis of unforeseeable dimensions, the Social Democratic Government has been aware of the importance of maintaining values, solidarity and social justice; and this, irrespective of the popularity in the public. My dears, I believe that the Social Democrats – and I am sure – will continue to make these values clear only in the government of Zoran Jankovic, so today I will vote for her with full responsibility. My support, however, will be enjoyed by Mr Jankovic, as Prime Minister, as long as he shows the ability and willingness to act in a responsible manner and to act exclusively for the welfare of the people. I expect from him what the authors of the call I mentioned in the introduction probably expect. That he would serve the people in harmony with the Constitution and realize that he must earn his trust every day. But my dears, also messengers and messengers, we must be aware of this; and don't forget this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u63	I invite Mrs Saša Kos to the floor and Mr Ivan Vogrin to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear candidate Mr Zoran Jankovic, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Every day they warn us that the time we live in is not good. By electing Zoran Jankovic as mandate-holder, we will turn the period into a better one. And why? Because that's what the program that's written in the coalition contract is behind. I believe, as President Türk said, that Zoran Jankovic is a good candidate, which confirms his work in the past. So first of all, I would like to point out that he was an excellent economist and mayor of Ljubljana. The city — or capital — has received the soul and is proud of all of us. Such a person is worthy of all trust. In short, Slovenia needs such a Prime Minister who will work with the heart and will be able to implement the programme for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u65	I invite Mr. Ivan Vogrin to the floor and prepare himself for the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u66	Dear Madam President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows of the National Assembly, Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Citizens and Citizens, Honourable Voters and Voters of Slovenian Gorica, who have elected me! Although I didn't want to come to the phone today because there was a lot of things already said, but, given many speculations about my vote, my transgressions and others, I think I should explain some of the circumstances. At the principle level, we are all for cooperation, respect for other people, respect for human dignity, and when we get to the actual level, we are exclusive. This seems very wrong to me, and such a divided Slovenian society will be difficult to function well. A great deal of this happened yesterday when I met with Mr Jankovic, the candidate for Commissioner, which I feel is nothing wrong with. Mr Jankovic is my fellow Member, he was the mayor of Ljubljana, I was the two-man mayor of Lenart. We have a lot in common. The first question was: What did he offer me to bribe me with? He didn't offer me anything, and he didn't bribe me with anything! [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, in public, I apologize, Mr Jankovic, that it will be well understood. The first question in public was, and the press asked me what he offered me, what he bribed me with. He didn't offer me anything, he didn't bribe me with anything. We talked about purely everyday economic situations, but of course also about the political situation, the situation and the like. The question was about my transgressions, about the vote and so on. All of this, of course, is legitimate as long as it's on a certain level. Personally, I know, from my own experience, that it is the last moment to pull the hand brake and the leg, or the wood country of Slovenia into decay. For the past 19 years, I have run a company that I have left behind because I am a Member, my family members, a successful company, even though it tries to show it differently in public. In 1993, I founded it in a homemade barn. We worked very successfully until a few months ago when there was no affair in the public, nothing, even because I was not a Member. This also contributes to a certain extent. But what is now happening in my company will begin to happen in the country. Only with a time delay will it come. Look! Dude, I think it was Horvath, he said Prekmurje was in intensive care. In intensive care there are also two thirds of Slovenian companies, according to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Kranjc, because two thirds of Slovenian companies are no longer able to repay loans, they are unable to rent. We're kidding and we're kidding. I say from my own experience that it is necessary to react in a timely manner. In 2008, there was an economic crisis and many companies' problems resulted in an objective situation in the global world – an economic, financial, debt-supply crisis; it is true that we may have reacted in a timely manner and adopted certain measures in companies as well. My experience can also be good for this National Assembly, namely that it is necessary to react in a timely manner. Now I'm working on how to restructure the company. I have counselors who tell me what I knew in principle three years ago, but I didn't. Today, all experts know, and we also have a feeling of what needs to be done, but we cannot find the strength. We can't find the power and we're joking. You know, this country is no more successful than two-thirds of businesses, because it is more in debt each year and has bigger problems every year. Who will now point to whom, who is better, and who is worse? I believe it is time for cooperation and not for exclusion. Personally, I do not see any of the 90 members of the National Assembly with whom I could not chat, exchange experiences, talk to him and talk to him both with the right and left options and so on about different topics, because I also know a lot of people. That would be my message, and please, let's talk responsibly, because you'll see Sam here for 19 years working here, and all I've done is invest in my own company. [[...]] I have a modest house, one car, and a modest farm. A company that is at risk – do you know how many such stories there are? There are hundreds of stories like this! People text me and they say, "Tell the National Assembly what's going on, let people sober up." By my own experience, I know that life here and the view from here is different from that of a company where you have 100 employees and you have to worry every month. We had a hundred employees, tops. Look, there's a lot of stories like this, so I'm telling it. And if we're 19 years old or 18 years old and a few years old, we're now entering the 20th year, working successfully, someone can't say that this has been happening for 20 years. These are tragic stories. If this company's gonna stay away, my family and I worked for 19 years for free. People in Maribor and the surrounding area were committing suicides because of such stories! Our task in the National Assembly is to take such measures and macroeconomic frameworks as will be manageable. We are not competitive in the labour market, not in the case of tax burdens, not in the case of debarcation. The procedures we are dealing with, as well as I, as mayor of two mandates, I know, are actually on the verge of madness. We work and transfer papers from one side to the other and deal with it instead of serious problems. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u67	I apologize to Mr. Jew first. I've got a lot of speech repairs, and I've missed that it's my turn now. Stanko Stepišnik, then mag. Diane Jedhan. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll be very brief. Slovenia needs trust, government and a good programme at the moment. The candidate for mandate, Zoran Jankovic, with his programme, with his experience and vision of how to achieve this and achieve it, has all my support and voice "for". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u69	Well, that speech was very short. Now I'm really calling for a mag. Diana jeedan to the word. And then, Mr. Mitjo Mershol.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u70	Dear Vice President, I thought I was wrong and you wouldn't give me your word. Dear Members and Members, a distinguished candidate! Otherwise, I am not entirely sure that my candidate and I have the same position on the importance of Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian food production, but I know something else. That in a lot of difficult negotiations we have reached coalition commitments over the past two weeks, at least in the field of food production and agriculture, which have been unanimously adopted by four parties. These are essentially a commitment, the basis of which is a resolution. Let's ensure food for tomorrow, which was unanimously adopted by the respected National Assembly a few months ago. In particular, it is important to make it very clear in the commitments under the coalition agreement that the coalition will undertake to increase the production of quality, safe and affordable Slovenian food in a way that we will continue to maximize agricultural land, including financial compensation, even want to increase agricultural land; to ensure fair relations with the food chain and the efficient functioning of regulators; to allow Slovenian farmers what is the right to receive timely direct payments and other money from the rural development programme; to continue with information, promotion activities on the importance of Slovenian food; to actively rebuild the Slovenian forest chain, which has been successfully broken down over the past two decades; and to continue with information, promotion activities on the importance of Slovenian food. That is also why I must say that I will be happy to vote for the candidate. Of course, I am aware, as probably everyone in Slovenia, that there are no optimal candidates, so I believe that this coalition commitment will be fully fulfilled. I also believe, Mr candidate, that as a Member you will forget that not only Ljubljana is important, that Slovenia is also important, which is something wider than Ljubljana, and that if Ljubljana needs money, it is a question of whether to live better or even better. In Slovenia, in particular in small-border areas, the question is whether to survive at all. I also believe that, Mr President, in your rule, if you get this opportunity, you will follow the high moral principles introduced by President Pahor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u71	Mr Mitja Mershol has the floor and then Mr Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u72	Madam Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office, dear colleague and dear colleagues! Today, respected colleague Horvat mentioned that we have forgotten about the Slovenian countryside, and I now call on all of Slovenia to look into this space, in this chamber of Slovenian democracy, into this Slovenian Parliament and shout: "This is the most beautiful village in the world!" And in this most beautiful village in the world, a lot of beautiful words were sown with many beautiful flowers, and a lot of thorns were in between, and some are now counting it. I am alone for that majority in this village, who, along with Zoran Jankovic, cried out, "Let's start new bars and move on!" I'm in!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u73	I invite Mr Franz Pukšić to the floor and then Mrs Tamara Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! On June 5, last year, three referendums were dropped, and only on September 20, 21 was an untrustworthy vote. 12. The National Assembly was established in 2011. It's 11:00 today. 1. 2012 when we have the first proposal of the President of the country at the table for the election of the President. So on January 5th, this proposal was incorporated into the National Assembly. He's been behind us for over a half year since the referendums fell. What took you so long? Was that necessary? I'm sure, and I've repeatedly warned in my previous term that it's necessary to cut things once a person bleeds, then you can't stick it in another vein and take blood, but you have to give it a transfusion. The opposite has happened to our country. Too long. Why, of course, it wasn't in our power. Today, to say that today is a historic day, that it is oh and, in general, that we must elect a mandate-holder today, it is totally unacceptable for me to be so dramatic about this day. The point is that the President of the country had enough time or took too much time to propose a mandate. He could have done it sooner than he predicted. The most important thing would be to come, if he had had so much time, with a proposal where the mandate holder would also have a coalition. Yesterday someone on Twitter wrote down whether, therefore, if he correctly understood that the question of today was whether they would be able to buy an MP or an MP under the table and keep it a secret. Just as colleague Vogrin said how to step together, how the economy bleeds, how we are actually in full exhaustion and it is impossible to count on a credible government that comes in such a way that the Member buys something under the table to work. That the mandate-holder shall provide 46 votes and more on the day before the vote. All of this without a real basis is not trustworthy. There is also a question of ethics and morality, which has already been spoken about today. Yet, it was those who spoke of ethics and had to be respected themselves that in actions you showed too much in the opposite direction. So, you're saying something, do something. In the National Assembly, we in the Slovenian People's Party, both in the previous term and before the day, were able to show that we can come together for joint projects where there is no machination where there is no fraud. Thus we were able to support the pension law as well as the recent intervention law. Where someone would like to achieve a result based on fraud, based on exclusions, of course, we are not prepared to participate in the Slovenian People's Party. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have a country as a sanctuary, and in 1994 congregations have been formed, which some can still criticize, although in all these years they have made much better conditions in the congregations for further development or for the quality of life of people, including in Prekmurje or on the other hand in Dolenjska. In 2008, six regionalisation laws were drafted in this Parliament. I am confident today, three years later, that the country would be in a significantly better condition if it had regions then. The Social Democrats had previously promised support for this project, which was cancelled on 1 February 2008. I'm sorry, it was wrong. We are in the Slovenian People's Party and will defend and support the self-sustainment project, alpha and omega for survival; hence, of course, the processing industry. And if we want these projects to continue, it's high time, people are willing to suffer a lot more, tighten the belts, but provided we show them clearly and loudly that corruption will be over. This is the basis, no big crap – once a minister who said that it was not necessary for the crime to be committed — is not concluded in the courts. No big shit! I am sure that this will have to happen sooner than before, without this there will be no further development. A candidate for a mandate-holder who has always said that corruption in this country is not that economic crime is not that we have a legal state, of course he has not convinced me or anyone in this country. He's talking about relative victory, he is, but the relative victory is 30%. 70% of citizens and citizens have not elected you, Mr Zoran Jankovic, 70% of citizens and citizens have elected the other parties and it is the task of Members and Members to form a broader government in this national assembly. A government that will have more than 46 votes in advance; a government that can, therefore, act and rule not in a way of corruption, nor a way of bribery or a way of intimidation. We do not earn this in the 21st century and after 20 years of independence. In the Slovenian People's Party we have, we have, and we will also care for our relatives, Slovenes and Slovenians who live in the place and in the world. There's one quarter of them, about half a million all over the world. It took 15 years for us to bring to the National Assembly a law on Slovenians around the world, today the upgrade of this minister without a charter in the government. According to your program and what was read in the media is one of the first to be dismantled. This means that it is one of the first laws you will change when you abolish both the office and the care of Slovenian compatriots in place and around the world. Slovenia is a value and caring for relatives in place is therefore one of the fundamental and one of the sacred tasks of the Slovenian State. Every individual must be aware of this. When talking about the economy, about the unresolved problems both in the financial and economic fields – irresponsibility to pay – when it comes to it – I think that colleague Matjaž Zanoškar talked about – that the patient is dying and doctors are thinking about what they would do. Those who today would like to be a mandate-holder instead of listening to the top of Slovenian banking in the National Assembly are sitting with a botar outside for coffee and thinking about those ways, moves that do not belong in the National Assembly, about the undemocratic way of obtaining votes. If that were true what you said on TV yesterday, Mr Zoran Jankovic, today, when you were in front of the speaker, you would say three, four names that support you – not under the bench. Not to make out of all criminals who aren't, and they don't deserve it. Talking about an extremely successful director, an economist, a mayor and so on is easy. You were the director of Mercator. Other trading chains, such as the Choice, Panonii, and many others, have disappeared under your leadership at the time. You were the director of one company whose majority owner was a country. Mr. Zoran Jankovic, take the payroll and show the country how much you've earned. Where did you get your assets today?Oh, my God! When you talk about the need to be equal for all – you received credits from the Ljubljana Bank, others did not get them. Your employee did not — of course, with the salary she had. And even if I did, I wouldn't get it because only some dedicated people got it. That is why today the banking system is where it is, and therefore, of course, the Slovenian economy is on the dog, such as, from the credit crunch to incompetence and so on. In short, these are all your priorities for a mandate-holder who has not convinced me and 70% of Slovenes. I'm asking you if you've settled all the bills, all the transactions, even for the Staff. Far from it! Much remained open or too open. Even lives were taken by people because they did not receive the fees paid on these mega-Romanian projects. I believe that the round-up in Ljubljana was as successful as it was. Also in the National Assembly, a law was passed on the capital city. But the capital law amounted to 15 million euros at the annual level. Therefore, the calls of all those, including the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia with Mateja Kožuh Novak, who invites Members not to vote according to the instructions of their headquarters, are intended for you, Members of Parliament and Members of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. Vote on your conscience, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u75	My word, Mrs. Tamara Vonta. Get Mrs. Katarina Hochevar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u76	Thank you. Your Honor! I'm going to have a hard time dealing with the zeal of my predecessor, but I'm going to do my best. However, I do not think there are as many criminals here as Mr Pukšič is afraid – at least I hope, but it is true that I am still fresh in these things. Politics is art – the art of finding a path that will be acceptable to the widest possible crowd that they concern because politics cannot live and cannot exist because of itself. You know, it's not just the political skill and experience of those who give results, which will prove to be today, or it may already be shown; it's not true. And that's what the electorate and the electorate taught us. They want us to overcome divisions that seem insurmountable. They want unity that seems unattainable. They want to give up samples that seem to be embedded in us and in these parliamentary benches. They want action. Today we have the opportunity to get out of the matter that divides us and bet on what unites us – and that is people and the country, so it is good to have a mandate holder today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that I can join in the session myself. Nice greetings for me, too! Ms. Katarina Hočevar, National Gazette, is next. Ms Maša Kociper from Positive Slovenia should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u79	I apologize, I made a mistake – to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. [[He's quitting.]] Then it is, Mrs. Masha Kociper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u80	Respectable candidate! It seems fair to me that, as a relative winner of the election, I will also personally tell you why today I will not trust you with my voice. In addition to the facts already stated by the leader of our delegation and the reasons why the Civil Gazette will not support you, allow me to wipe out my personal reason. At the time you ran Mercator's business system, my family produced vegetables for this trading company. George Washington said that "the people have no future unless they realize that it is equal to the dignity of working a field or writing songs." Mr Jankovic, when we were selling our vegetables into the system you were running, it was a dignity to be a farmer, difficult to keep. For example, you gave us 200 tolars, back then, for a kilo of vegetables that you sold at the store for 750 tolars back then. While we were given discounts on discounts without the possibility of opposition, even a charity contribution was paid by suppliers. But it is true that we received the payment, even though it was already snowing. Because of this attitude, also because of Slovenian producers today, I cannot trust you with my voice. In the management of the country, I do not want the conduct I have witnessed or have received it as the supplier of the company you have run. I also agree that Ljubljana is the most beautiful place in the world, but I wish that Slovenian countryside would be the most beautiful place in the world. I come from a village where we don't have broadband or asphalt roads. There are many such remote places and villages in Slovenia. I want a mandate holder, whom I will be confident will make a greater contribution and importance to the Slovenian countryside. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper, Positive Slovenia, is next. Ms Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenija, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u82	As the last debater on our list, I will also begin by finding that the recent early elections and especially the surprising victory of Positive Slovenia have shown that people on the political scene want change and new faces more than anything else. Much of the voter activation, which, contrary to the announced, expected results, has completely changed the electoral outcome, and we can certainly also understand it as a decision at the level of leadership as support to a certain person and his way of managing it. And, on the other hand, as opposed to much of the electoral body's policy and way of working, which we have already had the opportunity to get to know in the past. From this point of view, I am truly saddened by the fact that in today's path of the situation, partly because of the fact that the political party, which in addition to Positive Slovenia represents the greatest novelty in our political space, has rejected several times the proposed hand from our side and thus the possibility of entering the coalition with another new party, thus making a new policy and a new, more central decision-making path. Instead, after co-negotiating with the other party, she decided to make a different solution. Of course, I respect the fact that we have a proportional system in Slovenia. The legitimate right of each party is to act as a coalition of its own choosing. Nevertheless, there is a strange sense of injustice in both me and many other voters that our country's leadership in the coming years is not decided by the first, second or even third party, but by the parties who have reached the fourth or even fifth of the six cities in this game. If you'll allow me to continue with this little sports comparison. As an external election observer, I have had the feeling that the elections are more important than in the camp competition, where it is more important to participate than to win, similar to some world championship where it is crucial who is the winner, but it is not so important who came second or third, even though he had only a few seconds late. The democratic elections are just such that only one can win, and the relative winner usually has the opportunity to first form a coalition, and that is its key advantage, at least that is what theory teaches. In Slovenia, in fact, this year is quite different. You, gathered here, are in fact denying a relative winner the opportunity to try to set up a government as Prime Minister; as Prime Minister, it is said by this political capital entrusted to him by the electorate. It all started right after the elections, like all parties, despite a loud statement of non-exclusion, all the parties — pardon, majority of the parties — despite a loud statement of non-exclusion, you initially rejected the coalition with a relative winner, and this, of course, made further negotiations difficult. Such political behaviour is unusual in the world, since the greatest and normal legitimate interest of every political party is that by entering the government it tries to implement its political agenda and to satisfy the electoral promises they have made to their constituents. The fact that some negotiators have already raised certain issues in the first place has certainly had a negative impact on further negotiations, and it is known that there is a need for an agreement to have a place of trust and mutual concession, which makes such forward claims very difficult. Of course, there have also been some mistakes on our side, on the side of Positive Slovenia, and on our President, which you have already read to us many times today. But that's normal, because we're really new to the political floor. On the other hand, we cannot tell our candidate for a term of office that he did not make almost superhuman efforts in this difficult situation to justify the confidence of his constituents and to form as wide a coalition as possible to recall, even in the beginning he offered a coalition of over 60 votes. But it seems that for a broad coalition, this man never had the right opportunity. After his initial rejections, potential partners then resented that at the beginning of the negotiations he was too intolerable – this is usually for the negotiations, but at the beginning everyone stands behind their positions – and then at the end of the negotiations that he is overindulgence. It is also common for the end of negotiations to be eased. They told him he was too fast when he was in the beginning, and then he was too slow. Some have been told that he is implementing the programme of Positive Slovenia, we were able to hear the day before that that Positive Slovenia has no programme and no concept at all. Similar comments or pronunciations show that the agreement with nectarines, in fact, was never really possible in spite of the hard work that was being done, and that really saddens us. However, the matter has led to the fact that today we are in a situation where the representative body is divided into practically two equal sexes and the possibility of a broad coalition does not appear on the left or on the right. A key role has been played by the political option, which has also received a large part of the vote from this title, and I am speaking from the references of my friends that it was an alternative to the already known and established right-wing political option. Nevertheless, I am convinced that today's election of Zoran Jankovic could be a step in a new direction and the beginning of a new era of Slovenian politics, which would in time only exceed the division. I have been following the work of Zoran Jankovic for five years and I have been able to see live how he is able to combine the various interests and various people in a desire to carry out large projects. This is the man who rang 600 addresses of families in Rakova Jelša to agree with them to legalize the facilities in order to carry out a sewage project. I want to see who'd do it between us! The structure and diversity of interests occurring in the capital is not in fact substantially different from those in the country, but only their scale is much greater in the country. In doing so, I realize more than ever in my life that there are different interests and differences between us and that there is no point in denying them. But we can build on what connects us. We can start with reforms that we have probably all come to realize are theirs for our country and then continue from there. The achievements achieved may encourage us to extend cooperation to other areas, and this will someday, I hope, in the near future, may at least begin to reduce this distribution. In order to start this way, however, we need a real man who is not burdened by political objections from the past, a charismatic Prime Minister, who will, with a smile and positive energy, give people the hope of a better tomorrow. A capable, efficient, extremely working leader who in these times of crisis will grab the helm and turn the ship in the right direction. A leader who is known to be extremely demanding, to perform well, to motivate, to control, to punish, if necessary, and to commend very much and many times. Someone who has already proved to be capable of managing two very different systems, which gives us hope that he will also be a successful leader of the country. Dear colleagues and colleagues from various political parties, people's eyes are really against us today, literally. We have started badly, and today we can show them that we can play by the rules of the game and that we respect the will of the relative majority of voters and give the opportunity to try to form a government, first of all, we must become Prime Minister Zoran Jankovic. I say that some of the parties will prevent their Members from constitutional right and duty, the duty to identify such important issues as the election of the Prime Minister, I do not hope and must not trust them. This is how I hope and I want to support Zoran Jankovic to give him the opportunity, because we have seen everything else before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Ludmila Novak's turn, get ready for the mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u84	Your Honor! Slovenia is my country, of course our beloved country. I have always been a proud Slovenian citizen and advocate of our language, cultural heritage and ethical values that have shaped us as a nation over the centuries. Despite expressed patriotism and Slovenian pride, however, I do not approve of any nationalism and insults at the expense of other nations or individuals. All the peoples of the world are the riches of the diversity of our planet. No nation in itself is worth more than others, even though its history may be much better, its culture is richer or its standard of living. I expect patriotism and respect for the values that have shaped us as a nation from Slovenia and the Slovenians, and then from those who have voluntarily become our citizens. Why such an introduction? As the mayor of Ljubljana last year, Mr. Zoran Jankovic awarded the honorary title of Ljubljana's citizen Mrs. Svetlana Makarovič for her achievements, which I quote, "in the field of art and culture are difficult to reach and unintelligible, and the contribution to the well-being of Ljubljanans and the recognition of the city is invaluable" – says the explanatory statement. I ask Mr Jankovic, unfortunately he is not here, whether, as former Mayor of Ljubljana and future Prime Minister, he agrees with the hostile speech of an honourable citizen who has recently upset many Slovenes. Let me just give you a few words from her interview for the web portal. When asked if the Slovenians were the Slovenians, she replied, "Why humiliating? Slovenian is a word for a stupid Slovenian, nothing else, because that's clear. And the kid who throws a firecracker to the dog under the dots is little Breivik. I wonder how many parents who know what's going on and still send their children to the parish, send their children into the slime hands of a fucking stinking fart..." – I'm embarrassed that I have to say this here, just for an illustration. I continue to quote Svetlana Makarovič: "...and they are still proud if their boy is a minister. Yeah, but they're crazy, but they're crazy? They put their own children in the hands of a criminal. But that's the mother I'm gonna call a Slovenian mother. How many Slovenians even know any human ballads? They don't know it. They know geyser music. About the Slaks and the Aussenites — these are Oberkrajners, if they represented themselves like that in Austria — then they are Oberkrajners, to be here too. There are things to hate. In my opinion, the Catholic Church in Slovenia is something you must hate. I feel it's my civic duty." Unfortunately, this is just a few dismal statements by an honorary citizen who was given this address by Ljubljana. Despite the undisputed artistic value of this author, I will certainly not read and buy her fairy tales to my grandchildren. With all due respect for members of different nationalities in our country, however, it is our duty to preserve our culture, our song, our language first. At last year's celebration at the 20th anniversary of the independent Slovenian state, one single Slovenian song broke through the central state celebration with torture, and this song was supposed to be Russian according to the original script. I expect from Mr Jankovic that all citizens are treated equally and that he will not allow such an enemy speech to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's mag. Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Prepare yourself, Mr Karl Erjavec, DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party we have 6 Members, with surnames: Bogovic, Prevc, Pukšič, Presečnik, Ribič and Žerjav. Therefore, Pucko's last name is not found in the Slovenian People's Party. And we're glad of it. Because of many speculations in recent days and the announcement of the violation of Members, both quietly, under the table, intransparency, impure, we have made a vague decision in the Slovenian People's Party not to take the votes. Let me explain. In the absolute majority, when it is necessary to gather 46 votes, only the votes "for" are counted, with the abstention and the voices "against" are almost irrelevant. Any vote that does not mean a "yes" vote is "against". So the invalid voice, the non-participation in the vote means exactly the same: the vote against. With this move, we want the new mandate holder to settle transparently, without hiding, without arrangements under the table. Slovenia wants to know who will be the new coalition, today, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not in 10 days. We want to protect ourselves with this move. I don't want anyone to question us about how we voted. We do not want to be the target of political and other corruption. Some people already wanted to stick this label to us, and that's not right. They're talking about big sums of money, respectable. About the large sums of money that Members should receive in order to vote in one way or another. We reject this and regret that we have to prove our decisions in this way. With this move, we want to put possible "puckotes" – in quotations, of course – in front of us, in the clear and that they may be changing their position in this hall today. Let's make this transparent. I have no problem with refugees, neither from my parliamentary group nor from any other parliamentary group, but let us do this transparently, today, here and now. We didn't tie anyone up, we didn't threaten anyone. Each of the Members in this Chamber shall act on their own conscience, as it is in accordance with the Constitution. But one more time. Please, at least from the Slovenian People's Party, if so-called "puckots", raise your hand and tell the Slovenian people transparently, just as it is done, by men, not by tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj, Parliamentary Group of the National List, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We would like to explain why the National Gazette will also decide to obstruct itself, so we will not raise the ballots and vote. By a statement to the public, the Civil Code has already announced this. And once again, this is a voluntary decision by all our Members, they can vote and be defined at any time, but in recent days a number of information has emerged in the media that suggests a non-transparent gathering of support for the election of the mandate holder. With regard to the breadth of the candidate's support, there is a clear discrepancy between the public statements made by representatives of political parties, the leaders of parliamentary groups and individual Members on the one hand and the candidate and members of his party on the other. This non-compliance may mean two, either unrealistic or at least pre-optimistic forecasting sufficient support or non-transparent trading of votes in the National Assembly. At the same time, there have been numerous speculations in the media about offenders, even political corruption. Since we want to show that we do not approve of such intransparency and at the same time prove that there is no political corruption in our types, we have decided in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette that we do not vote or accept votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I ask whether the candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Jankovic, wants to answer the question from the debate or to provide further clarifications? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. Mr. Zoran Jankovic from the bench, please. I'm sorry. There are no more reported debaters except you, who have a word at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u90	Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly, dear citizens and citizens! I'm going to spend these few minutes giving my assessment to the one that's just been said. On the one hand, I am proud and happy to have listened to your debates, proud of the level of these debates and also to the justifications, both "for" and "against". On the other hand, it grieves me, and I try to explain to you that the Member of Parliament, who has his own head, his heart, to avoid trading under the table, will not raise the ballot, will not vote, and will also show the will of the voters and voters who have elected him. But I won't talk about all the debates, I thank you again for the debates, just the ones you said you'd give me support like the ones you said you wouldn't give me support. With the exception of one discussion, I think they've been on a high level and let this be a new path for our national assembly. At the time of the negotiations, I met with many people, some new ones, some of whom I had previously worked with, and I must say that these negotiations have been extremely good and useful for me. Mr Karl Erjavec had good suggestions, and finally the question on my part was, "Lord Jerjavec, why would you rather have my mother who is a pensioner than me, because I too am for the reconciliation of pensions?" In doing so, Mr Šuštaršič also showed the ultimate measure of reason and proposed a model that satisfied everything. The SD and the negotiating group have said what has been expressed today. I thank them for that. What Mr Židan said and what I heard was that I was guilty of the high price of salad or vegetables in the store, with the purchase price being low, now it is not an account for me when fruit and vegetable producers come in front of the city house and ask me to do everything not to sell Mercator. But this horrible Mercator, who's supposed to destroy all those suppliers like Shilohs like Apple Gooses like Pollicles with salad, and I don't list any more. I wonder if it was already 13 years ago the idea of giving priority to Slovenian production in Mercator, the idea that we are putting on again today, when we say that quality production of our countryside should come to our public institutions, should be given priority because it is healthier because the logistics path is shorter and at the same time makes it possible to survive this rural area. When we go through this programme – in the end, all I get is a technique that says we all want the same thing: we want a competitive economy, we want a social, solidarity country. Whether we write that the budget has to be flattened in four years or write that economic growth must be 4%, it is a technique for me, because ultimately, on the one hand, we have to cut costs, those that are unnecessary, reduce procedures, on the other hand, to enable greater economic growth. I also thank our esteemed President of the State, Dr Daniel Türk, for entrusting me with the mandate. When there was a question after yesterday, whether I should step down and do a favor to many in this Chamber, because they did not have to decide, because they did not have to explain what to decide, whether to step up here and let your hands surround "for" or "against" was a very clear decision for me. I have no right to withdraw my candidacy, because this did not give me those minority 30% of the citizens and citizens who were in the elections or the majority 70% who were against me – if I understood Mr Pukšič, who explained how many were against me. I didn't understand that I went to the election as one against everything. I have considered and considered that we are going to the elections together to achieve a better situation for our country, an economically successful country, to adopt the proposals of the Association of Managers – and to do so with solidarity. In my previous term, I publicly praised the agreement with Croatia, supported all reforms and had no desire to go to early elections. Seven weeks before the early elections – thanks to the whole team that went along – meant a lot to me. Seven weeks of visits to Slovenia, both urban and rural, taught me something I had not yet known. When I arrived in Prekmurje, I already knew Mura — I still wear it today, I can show it — and I have been explaining why this Mura is so infamously failing. The answer was simple, they were bad directors until Mr Starman arrived, he sanitized Mura, who now employs thousands of 500 people again. When I came to Odrance, we found a new factory that employs 350 people. Perhaps it is funny to someone because they are laughing and explaining – I see Mr Visionak – but also in Dobova they have an exceptional company, Deržič, which is a modern company that creates some new energy and even worked on one project in Ljubljana and got paid for – when someone had previously explained these problems. And I went to Primorska, to Luka Koper, and Valdoltro, and I looked at Brancin's company run by my sister and brother, and I realized that we had the right hands to know that we could do it. And I was in the White Land, and when I asked what they needed, they told us to take the road. And I was in Koroška, in our ironworks, where they say with pride, you know, we make knives that are the best in the world. And those stories that are the best in the world, we have quite a few. Such stories need to be supported and given priority and should be an example for all of us who lead the country. Either we have a chance or we don't, that's up to you. When I was in the EMO toolbox and listening to their stories about how they make models for all the automotive factories in Germany, from Mercedes, Beemwe, audio, it was very modestly said: we received recognition that we are the fourth best toolbox in Europe. And I wonder why these companies besides Krka, Mercator and others do not have the opportunity to create what they want to lead this country, to compete with everyone around Europe and around the world, to be more successful. And today this testimony may not be the answer why we don't want it. I wonder why I'm a system failure. Are we afraid of success? Are we afraid that someone who sits here can, of course, be told by the Government that we should give him the opportunity to try to form a government? Today we are not voting on the government, you are only voting on the candidate for Prime Minister, who must form a government. Is it possible for you to fear that this composition of the government will be too good and that it may disarm many when they see names not to play the client card, but personal ratings, credibility and what they have set? Looking back at what we wrote in this coalition covenant, it reminds me of what we did or what I did with my fellow workers my whole life; created, believed in, loved, and encouraged him. In the last few years, two beautiful stories have remained behind me, something has happened that those who explain – at the time the shop workers were crying for their presidents, and the fruit and vegetables suppliers are crying because they want Mercator to stay in Slovenian hands. In the Municipality we have come to praise us all – and thank you very much – that Ljubljana is the most beautiful city in the world. When you ask me if I ever told you about the countryside — not ever, every time! Because I am sure that Slovenia can be the best country in the world – with all its beauty: the beauty of its people, its landscapes and its good companies. Today, I urge you to do your job of not sitting on this party's game, but let everyone show how he voted, but I think we are responsible for these citizens and citizens to vote in our conscience today, in our heart. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much for further clarifications. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[He doesn't want to.]] This concludes the debate. We're going to the vote. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No one raised their hand, I'm sorry, at least I didn't notice it. No, I first asked if anyone wanted to discuss it. Well, obviously you want to, so I'm asking you to apply. I would like to ask Mr Jankovic if you would like to take the floor at the end of the list of discussers to sign up as well. It's your turn, if you want, at the end. I'm starting my application. Debate – five minutes later. First up is Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u92	Your Honor! As a lawyer, an MP and an electorate, I strongly oppose the statements made by certain groups of Members that they will not take over the vote and decide on this matter. Such conduct is unimaginable and completely contrary to all concepts of parliamentary and democratic decision-making. I'm sorry, I don't understand. I don't understand what a man is in this logic, that they don't pick up these voices and go vote. Is it not much more manly and dignified that, as Members of Parliament, they do their duty to decide on such an important issue as the election of the Prime Minister, and to surround in their quarters the 'no'? Why don't they do it? It's a man! And that's how it's done! Above all, I am disappointed at Mr Gregor Virant, whom I read during my specialization in constitutional law and have repeatedly agreed with his views. I think that all constitutional lawyers can agree that it is that such an important issue is not decided, contrary to Article 82 of the Constitution, which provides that Members shall make their own decisions, you know the article, contrary to the provision of the Constitution which provides that the President of the Government is to be decided, is to say, elected at a meeting of the National Assembly, and contrary to the rules of procedure which stipulate that Members decide in their work. The democratic concept of decision-making assumes that we are representatives of the people, who make decisions on behalf of the people, but we do not avoid decisions and hide behind them and thus prevent our Members, members of the parliamentary groups, from expressing our will, even if this will is against the proposal, which is legitimate of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It is Mrs Janja Klasinc, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. I have nothing to add to this explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The panellists are no longer present. That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u96	We move to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic for the election of the President of the Government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government shall be voted on by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the voting committee, Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš – Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah – Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Matjaž Han – Social Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic – Nova Slovenija. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're starting the vote. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted by surrounding "yes" or "against" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for Prime Minister will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will be sent to the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 16 and 15 minutes and will last until 16.40. Excuse me, I repeat, the vote will begin at 4:15 p.m. and will last until 4:30 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u97	I note the outcome of the vote for the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 11 January 2012. 54 ballots were distributed, 47 ballots were delivered. Four votes were invalid, 43 votes were valid. 42 members voted against by 1 Member. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] Mr Zoran Jankovic did not receive most of the votes of all Members, so he was not elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As the proposed candidate has not received the required majority, the President of the Republic may, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, submit the second or the same candidate within 14 days after the re-consultation. A parliamentary group or a group of at least ten Members may also propose a candidate for Prime Minister. If several proposals are tabled within this deadline, the National Assembly will vote on each of them, first on the candidate of the President of the Republic, if not elected, and also on other candidates, in order of the proposals tabled. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting in ten minutes. We'll pick it up at 5:05.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-11-SDZ6-Izredna-02.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Kranj in criminal proceedings against Member Branko Marinič. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Kranj for consideration by the National Assembly. The notification was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notice of the District Court in Kranj, IK 602/2010 of 22. 12. In a criminal proceeding against the Member of the National Assembly, Branko Marinič for a criminal offence of forging a crime of counterfeiting of documents and after the first paragraph of Article 256 of the Penal Code relating to Article 26 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly, Branko Marinič, and allows the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There were 81 Members and Members present, 78 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the second point, point B, under item 2 of the agenda, this is the Notice of Criminal Procedure against Member Ivan Janša Janez of the District Court in Ljubljana. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana for consideration by the National Assembly. The notification was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, Article 2K2457/2010 of 22. 12. On the criminal procedure against the Member of the National Assembly, Ivan Janša Janez, for the suspicion of a crime of receiving gifts, for unlawful intervention under Article 269(1) of the Penal Code relating to Article 25 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly, Ivan Janša Janez, and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There were 83 Members and Members present, 80 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
