ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Alenka Bratusek, Masha Kociper, mag. Barbara Zgeiner Tavsh, mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Jana Jenko, Maria Plevčak, Iva Dimic, Ivan Hršak and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I invited the President of the Government, Janez Janša, to the 25th item of the agenda, the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Mark Kranjc, on the 26th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 16 July 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to decisions on the proposal for enlargement and decision on the agenda itself, I would just like to inform you that we will change the timeline a little bit, that we will interrupt today at 23 p.m., because the working bodies have already done their job and there is no need for us to meet today after 19 p.m. Therefore, we will start on Friday a little later, for the Mandate-Electorial Commission to do its work on one item of the agenda. And of course, since we will be working today until 23 p.m., we expect to be done a little early on Friday. So it's the agenda. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal of items from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. In accordance with the agreement of the 24th meeting of the College, on 13 July 2012, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, an urgent procedure. In this regard, I inform you that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at its 29th urgent meeting on 16 June 2012, has carried out a procedure pursuant to Articles 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to deal with two draft laws governing the same social relationship. The Committee considered in addition to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was submitted by the Government following an emergency procedure. The proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia is also included, the first consideration submitted by the MEP to the National Assembly. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Both the Government and the representative of the drafters of the draft law shall have the rights and duties of the drafters of the draft law under the Rules of Procedure. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a billmaker? Minister of Finance? No, no, no. There is no representative of the proposer in the Chamber. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you are, Mr Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we will not support an extension of the agenda relating to the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding. It is, of course, both substantive and procedural reasons. If we look at the contents, we can talk about the fact that the National Assembly will decide in 10 minutes the fate of 12 billion Slovenian assets and, of course, will also definitively seal the fate of the state property in the Republic of Slovenia. Because with this law, however, it is the third phase of privatisation. In our view, this privatisation is completely inconsistent or follows a narrow interest either in political or in associations that monitor and want to influence the policy to decide for their benefit – here I have in mind the Roman Catholic Church and their requests for the payment of denationalisation – and, last but not least, we decide how and how it will interfere with the funds intended to provide pensions. It is therefore a means for which all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia expect to acquire it when they enter such a status. The fact that this law is being dealt with following an urgent procedure, and the fact that we have only 10 minutes in the National Assembly as a parliamentary group to discuss it, of course, is an entirely inadequate approach and I want to say that we are protesting against such work in the National Assembly. It is not surprising, however, that the Government did not even want to present why it is investing and proposing to extend the agenda today with a point on the Slovenian State Holding. And all of this indicates that we are really going to decommission the country. We do not want to discuss this decommissioning in just 10 minutes, so that someone who obviously has a narrow interest in it will, of course, earn and probably for many years solve their problem, which will cause us all in the Republic of Slovenia to have serious consequences for many years. We will not support the extension of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? If not, then I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Please check for voting devices. We will vote on the enlargement of the agenda. We're voting. I've broken the vote, we'll check what's wrong. Does it work now, Mr. Jurša? Good. Once again, I propose extending the agenda to a vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as the 16th item of the agenda in accordance with the meeting's timetable after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference, with the extension we have adopted. An explanation of the voice? No, that's not what the agenda is. We're voting on the agenda. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 34. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REPORT ON UNFINISHED STRATEGIC PROJECTS BY MINISTRY. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Honorable assembly, president, government representatives, president of the government! Given the chaotic state in which the coalition led us to consider for the first time in history at an extraordinary meeting such a number of points, based on unreasonable decisions, at the same time we have two more constitutional changes at this extraordinary meeting, we have an 11 billion-dollar establishment of the holding company, we have the changes of the ZUJF produced by this coalition, in short, we have a series of decisive points that we are considering on the basis of a 10-minute debate. On the basis of this, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has decided that in such a dismantling of Parliament, for which you are also responsible, the first among the same, the President of the National Assembly, who has made it possible with your parliamentary group to do so, we have decided not to cooperate and that in this circus you can tell yourself what you think is right, and you will also take responsibility for these decisions. In doing so, let me say that we will only participate in the closed session, in a part where it is clearly not possible for the public to make an explicit statement about the situation in the country, so that we can continue to make decisions and make decisions. It also applies to the point where, together with the SD Group, we tabled a proposal for an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Just one question, Mr. Möderndorfer. I understand this, of course, as obstruction under Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Can you clarify again whether this means the absence of all items of the agenda, except for the consideration of the State Report in the Slovenian banking system and the consideration of the Public Finance Balance Act? Did we get it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u6	You understand correctly, yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues just for an explanation. The College of Friday decided to hold a discussion at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly under Rule 67(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I myself have proposed that two items of the agenda should be set time for discussion under the third paragraph, i.e. longer time. The College rejected this proposal, which means that the debate is proceeding in accordance with the decision taken at the College. We are at the 25th item of the agenda – Report on unfinished strategic projects by ministries. I welcome the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, the Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government and the other co-workers of the Government! The Government sent this report to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I sent it to you on the 4th of July 2012. This agenda item shall be held in such a way that the President of the Government shall explain the report and there shall be no debate on this agenda item in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In order to explain the report, I give the floor to Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it is extremely important that we take a closer look at this report on the strategic delays that Slovenia has produced in recent years or in the last period before addressing the items of the agenda that are at this extraordinary meeting, as this further substantiates the need for today, although with a great deal of delay, to take certain measures. This report on strategic delays, together with information on the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia 2005–2013 and the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007–2023, is the starting point for determining the actual situation and also for further action. You have part of these measures today or this week at this extraordinary meeting. In view of the fact that the Government has begun to prepare a strategy for the development of Slovenia for the period after 2013, when the current one expires. This strategy will, of course, also be the basis for the use or draw-back of European funds in the next European Multiannual Financial Perspective, and we are urgently faced with an assessment of what has been achieved by this strategy so far, without having been specifically planned, because it is necessary to know this before you plan things forward. Of course, it is a view of the report on the implementation of this strategy and of the other strategic documents that the state has in recent years to take about as empty a picture as the benches of the biggest opposition party here. In fact, we have processed so many strategic delays that in the coming years they will not be fully compensated or eliminated. The fact is, if we go after these projects, even where the problem was not the means, there was virtually nothing substantial. The very view of the report you received weeks ago is very comprehensively illustrated. The fact is that at a time when the financial drought and when the investment funds are largely limited to European funds, we are obliged to do our utmost at that time to remove all those obstacles that make it impossible or difficult to use at least those funds in a useful way. I think this is the first task both of the government and of the legislator. At this session you have many laws that remove these obstacles and also significantly improve the environment in Slovenia, in order to avoid such obstacles and delays in the future. If we look at the essentials, you will see that these are things that you could have done a long time ago, that a meeting with about the same agenda as this week should have been three years ago or at least two years ago. It would make it much easier for all of us to be together, so somehow I don't understand this bad will, which, while normal, was understandable because of the shorter time, because of the extraordinary session and so on, because we actually have nothing left. If we continue to delay, the situation will be even more difficult and if we delay a little longer, it will be insurmountable. I think this house is where we should be absolutely aware of this. If I'm going fast over the vents. In the area of finance we inherited as a government, two absolutely strategic delays, one is the non-acceptance of the capital investment management strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, a lot of talk about what should now be done quickly. It should be said that the Capital Investment Management Act is the previous government to adopt this strategy by 30 June 2011. This has not been achieved, which is why we have taken immediate action at the beginning of the mandate of this work. Today you have the result of a comprehensive concept, which is the result of this consideration, before you in the form of a law on Slovenian State Holding. And that's what we're trying to fix. This law will enable the creation of a comprehensive strategy, rational and transparent management of state assets and also the resale of non-strategic investments. Another such delay, a strategic delay, in the area of finance could be described in terms of financial convulsions. It's three things. For the first time this is a situation in our banking system, which is extremely serious, you will also be able to hear a more detailed assessment by Banka Slovenije below the next point. Then it is this spasm in the Slovenian economy, which is largely over-indebted and also credit incompetence. Thus, a number of firms in difficulty cannot borrow credits because they are unable to pay them off on an ongoing basis and could not, even if the financial service worked better. And the third reason is the acute international economic environment, which also needs to be adapted. By establishing this state holding company, which is in the form of a law before you, the clearing of the balance sheet of the banking sector will take place. This will increase the creditworthiness of banks, this will translate into easier lending of businesses, of course those who are able to borrow credits and also repay them. This will meet one of the conditions for eliminating the credit crunch, not all of them. However, as these measures will translate into economic growth, it will depend largely on the measures already taken to accelerate growth and to a large extent on those measures, which are in the form of numerous laws before you at this extraordinary meeting. The dynamics of spilling these measures into greater growth depend, of course, also on the international environment, given that the Slovenian economy is exportable. The government has adopted some other legislative solutions that improve the regulation of the banking system, it is about raising the capital of companies, making it easier for the draft law on the market for financial instruments in the process of adoption. Then it is the raising of capital by financial institutions. This is facilitated by proposals for amendments to the Laws on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds, by the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act and by the Banking Act. In this session we are attacking most of these problems, which are the basis for a financial spasm in Slovenia in recent years. In the field of the economy, it is mainly a matter of significant strategic delays in investing European funds or, wrongly said, in drawing on European funds. In recent years, there have been major delays in drawing. You also have some of this information on your screen. It is a delay in the validation of projects and calls for proposals, delays in the conclusion of contracts, delays in payments from the State budget and also delays in reimbursements from the European Union budget. At the time of taking over the mandate, around 30% and 1.4 billion of the €4 billion of cohesion funds available were recovered from the state budget. We are here at about 20% in the field of European territorial cooperation. If I miss the details that are partly seen from these screen checks, it should be noted that if the dynamics of the use of European investment were roughly the same as in the 2004-2008 mandate, even in the 2008-2012 mandate, then at least 500 million more European funds should be invested today, which could significantly ease this financial drought that ruled Slovenia. The greatest risks are in the framework of the operational programme of environmental and transport infrastructure. Large environmental and transport projects are not carried out according to the expected dynamics, and these tables also show where the main delays are. This government has taken urgent, immediate measures to speed up the drawdown and repair the backlogs. It's kind of like that. All delays will not be compensated, but the latter is such that we have come to a positive net position towards the European Union budget. May was €68 million and € 159 million in June. The most strategic delays are in the area of space and infrastructure. This area has a billion and 100 million European assets in this financial perspective on transport infrastructure. By the end of last year, only 287 million or 26 % of these funds had been realized in all projects. These strategic delays threaten the importance of strategic transport corridors. By the end of the financial perspective period, they will be extremely difficult to make up for as 70 % of these available funds would have to be invested or realised over the next three years. Inside this are the biggest delays in rail projects. Until 2015, €473 of European funds are allocated here. The implementation between 2007 and 2011 was only 16.5% and 77 million respectively. Infrastructural and spatial delays are practical in the implementation of all state spatial plans currently under consideration. These are over 60. The largest strategic delays in the deployment of the railway link within the transport corridor on the Lyon-Kiev route are at the section between Divaca and the state border and Trieste. This project is co-financed by the European funds. Not a single million euros have been spent here, even though all the hands are gone. Then, the next major strategic traffic delay is the third development axis. Not here in the north, not in the middle, not in the south, things haven't been going anywhere in recent years. The procedures of the State Spatial Plan started in 2005, but on none of these routes, it is said, not even one km of the third development axis, the procedures are not completed by the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. Then there's such a big project here, Skofljica Oblast. The procedure started in 2005 and there is still no decommissioning of the route and no decision has been taken on the most appropriate route. Too late. This is followed by the establishment of an appropriate road link between the existing motorway and the Jelšana border crossing. Despite the introduction of the completed motorway programme in 1995 and at the beginning of the preparation of the VAT in 2006, there is still no route for the future connection. Then there are major delays in placing in the room at hydro power plants in the lower and middle Savi and so on. Of course, the delays in the two railway corridors, V. and X., are only underlined by the strategic delays, because the delayed activities in recent years cannot easily be compensated, which is why Slovenia is threatening to be overwhelmed by the modernisation of these European corridors. And it's our fault. This involved inadequate project preparedness also for an inadequate set of projects, placement procedures are rakrana. You will also talk a lot about laws that try to remedy these consequences or shortcomings, then there are audit procedures in procurement procedures that are their story in these delays, and so on. The state of the most important projects in the field of railway infrastructure modernisation is also shown in the specific table. That's what you have in the rapporteur. I hope you've seen it. In the field of energy, 160 million Euros of European funds are available in this financial perspective. Four priority directions were adopted here. The funds were virtually not pumped; the drawdown rate at the end of 2011 was 10%. All of these projects will also not be able to provide full pumping and will therefore need to be relocated to those projects where the absorption is greater. This is mainly about energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities, so that the funds do not remain. In the field of education, science, culture and sport, we have four such delays in important projects. It is the development of broadband networks in white foxes, the development of fourth-generation mobile communications, the further development of digital broadcasting and the new e-communication law, which should have been adopted last year. In view of the lack of acceptance, the European Commission has announced the action. The government is speeding this up. We hope it'll be on your tables in the fall. In the area of agriculture and the environment, there are delays in the implementation of projects in the areas of water supply, waste water disposal and treatment. These projects are mainly worth a few ten million euros. All drinking water supply projects are worth about €260 million — delays everywhere. Disposal and treatment of waste water €165 million – all over the place. The scope of public services, the implementation of the chimney activity – a non-executed project for the production of records of combustion plants is a major problem, including everything else related to this activity. Ineffective multi-annual backlog project, more than a thousand unsolved cases. There is also no project to regulate and establish a methodology for the pricing of compulsory public environmental services, which causes major problems. When it comes to different types of water use and water land, there are between 400 and 450 outstanding applications for water use, which on average have been unresolved for four years. In the field of water land there are 412 deposits outstanding. Many of these too have been waiting for years. Air quality is an extremely important area for quality of life. No air quality programmes are implemented for Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, Kranj, Murska Soboto, Novo mesto and Zasavje. There are also topics before the EU court. Then we have an unrealized piece of legislation from the environment where, I think, 12 or 15 regulations and laws that should have been adopted long ago are not and therefore the quality of life in many parts of Slovenia is worse. Then we have great backlogs in the administrative procedures of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. This table is right here. There are thousands of unsolved cases over the years. In the case of defence, the previous government has been engaged for three years in whether or not it will terminate or terminate the contract for the purchase of medium wheeled vehicles 8X8, it has not taken any decision. I should've had it in my first year. The situation is totally chaotic. Justice. This is about the big backlog of the court. The time for the resolution of economic courts is four times longer than the European average. This is an important cause for the collapse of many companies and for payment non-discipline. Major economic crime has not experienced any epilogues in recent years. The government has prepared an amendment to the legislation to attack these causes for these problems this year. In health, projects are open, in fact, all that should be largely completed long ago. Now, of course, the problem is also the lack of financial resources, new priorities are set, the priorities are projects that can be financed from European funds, these are, in particular, emergency centres. Then there are other things that we haven't even mentioned in the report, because they don't specifically concern any source, but there are delays that have a significant impact on growth, on the economic situation in Slovenia, and also on employment. One of such major projects that has been talked about a lot is the Emonica project, which is the construction of a passenger terminal in Ljubljana. The investment is worth close to 300 million in principal private funds. The project was deliberately stopped in order not to compete with the mall in Stožice. This happened by requiring a deepening of the tracks after the final invitation to tender by the Municipality of Ljubljana and then encouraging the municipal contribution by 50%. The total cost to investors has increased by at least 80 million, a project that should have already been completed and around 2,000 jobs would have been there and a lot of work for construction has not even started. At the same time there is also no shopping centre in Stožice, it is only over 100 million euros in hole due to credits received by companies near the Municipality of Ljubljana for this purpose mainly by state banks. So we've got double damage. Why is there such a delay? If we were to sum up all these delays and calculate the financial effects of these delays, there would be billions. If at least half of these investments had been realised, the economic situation in Slovenia today would have been better, the budget revenues would have been better, the restrictions on public spending could have been significantly milder, as well as those we have already met, than those we will have met before, but this has not happened. So, where are the reasons? We usually talk in this House about the government's incompetence when it comes to such delays. This is also the case, absolutely, but I think that our reasons are deeper, not the only problem. In Slovenia, in recent years, there has somehow been a complete system in which the government is based on the background, each project is looking for the benefits of individuals or individual stakeholders. When it comes to projects that are planned, which are publicly known – and most of the projects that I have talked about – there are many lobbyists involved, then they cover everything from officials to experts, large projects involving auditors and the anti-corruption commission, eventually even the judiciary, the police, the prosecution. Projects are amazingly standing, many times these different individual interests are intertwined or contradictory. Whether it's first or second, it's late. This is about the interests of those who would like to profit from expensive studies around putting into space and environmental requirements. That's a great deal. Practically every amendment to the legislation so far has required further studies and the number of those produced has multiplied and then revisions of assessments and studies and so on. Then it is the interests of those who would like to earn by changing their destination or selling their land. This is also a system made in Slovenia today. Then this is about the interests that are found in the annexes to the basic contracts that are as open as possible. The project is more expensive, the contract is more open and the possibility is less likely to be concluded on a key than is customary and customary abroad. In Slovenia we have the right experts to prepare open contracts. I think we could export it if someone wanted to buy it. Then it is a deliberate investment — and these cases are being investigated — of complaints and of the delaying that the complainant will later force the withdrawal of such complaints against payment and so on. The problem that we, as a government and the legislator we have gathered in this Chamber today, is that most of these blockades are systematically enabled by deliberately complicated procedures, which have been introduced by lobbyists in particular in the regulation and also in the legislation in due time. It is precisely because of their impossibility that these procedures enable corruption. This has been completely clear for years. The Anti-Corruption Commission has never announced against such regulation and complication. Now that she's simplifying them, she's answering her phone, which puts her in a very strange light. Whenever such assessments are made and it is found that a project is standing for three years, but in fact no one can explain exactly why, and then search for the reasons that are also found, the elimination of these causes eventually falls to the minister, it is said, to a person who is strongly criticized every day, exposed to public pressure and sometimes their families to threats, to such and to others. And this person, who usually has even lower wages than all those who have caused these delays, has to solve it and is, regardless of who the government is, the only one who, at least if not otherwise, is politically responsible in the elections. No one else in this chain has answered most of the questions. So we have a detailed and decommissioned system of blockades that destroy the country. Blockages, which are at all levels, even systemic, even in laws and so on, even in the functioning of interest groups, sometimes also those we call social partners. And in this session, respected colleagues and colleagues, you have laws that end hundreds of these obstacles and blockades. This assessment, resulting from these strategic delays in projects, is largely the basis for the many measures in these laws. And the adoption of this legislation is vital for the country, indeed, of vital importance. Most laws are proposed as an emergency, perhaps following a reduced procedure. Like I said before, this would be a problem in normal situations. We're changing important things. If we had time, this legislation would certainly have earned a significantly longer time to discuss, even for some analysis and so on. But, as it is said, we should have dealt with these laws three years ago, which is essential before that we not only put things down in the previous term, but we have not done so, which is why it is now in a hurry. Maybe we will fix some arrangements in the fall or next year when the impact analyses are done, but this is significantly better than we are still waiting for this package, and it will no longer matter what we accept at the end of the year. The urgency of adopting these measures is further justified by our public financial position. We haven't finished this year's financial year. What we have been forced to let go of under the Public Finance Balance Act, that there are no blockades, will be known about revenue. And we have not yet completed our years, and there is likely to be something else to add for this year. When you receive the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets in the early autumn, you will see that with the Public Finance Balance Act we have only done half of what needs to be done and what other European Union countries have done years ago, that we still have an important part of the task. Therefore, I simply do not understand these debates, which are now focused on how this rationalisation, which we have already carried out, would further ease. In the fall you will see that we have a significantly worse problem ahead of us, and if it were just a few privileged pensions, it would not be worth the debate at all. As a result of this situation, there is a growing urgency, and these measures, which are now at this extraordinary meeting, are primarily growth measures. If this doesn't grow, we're going to cut spending every year, and we're not going to get out of the crisis. There is somewhere where growth needs to start, and that is why this extraordinary meeting is taking place.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u9	I thank the Prime Minister for this explanation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I interrupt the 16th extraordinary meeting for 15 minutes to prepare everything necessary for the next item of the agenda, which will take place without public presence. We'll continue at 1:00. The meeting was suspended at 12.44 p.m. Twenty-six. Agenda item – Information on the status of the Slovenian banking system [[without public presence; from 13:00 to 15.59]] The meeting continued at 16.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Nicely greeted! We continue with the open session. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u11	Well-known, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! The Company Act lays down the basic corporate status rules for the establishment and operation of companies, espies, connected persons, economic-interest associations, branches of foreign companies and their statusal transformation. As we call it, the LAG is therefore receiving constant attention and is subject to constant demands for changes and removal of administrative barriers. Thus, recent amendments have been made by all the Chambers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, Apes and some other stakeholders. The bill thus seeks to remedy some of the uncertainties and, above all, the administrative burdens on which individual stakeholders point. The main solutions to this bill are as follows. They are transmitted to the website of the Apes by the ZGD from the Official Journal, which will result in a reduction of costs for companies. The draft law deletes the chapter governing the silent society and consequently amends the other articles relating to the silent society. An article dealing with conflicts of interest is complemented by redefining conflicts of interest, following the example of the Public Society Management Code, and removing the dilemmas of giving consent in the case of family enterprises and setting exceptions in the case of lower value transactions, with EUR 2 000 for individual business, and EUR 24 000 for all transactions together for one company. It allows companies to pay the Yipes for the publication of the annual report after the publication of the annual report and no longer in advance. It shortens the deadline for erasure of espoia from the Business Register of Slovenia from 15 to 3 days. It is possible for an entrepreneur to transfer a company or part of the company to his family member as a universal legal successor during his life. It raises the upper limit of annual revenues to which the entrepreneur can keep books after simple accounting, from €42 000 to €50 000. The proposed members of the Supervisory Board shall be required to present to the Assembly, which will decide on their appointment, their past professional completion and the work they are doing and any circumstances that might lead to conflicts of interest. The proposed member of the Supervisory Board may present his presentation in writing and the applicant shall make a presentation at the assembly. Furthermore, an offence shall be added in case the company does not have shares expressed in intangible form. Moreover, fines are being reduced for small companies for the non-submission of the annual report to Apes and fines for companies if they do not provide Ipes with data on property and financial transactions and on the business outcome. We have prepared these changes, as I said, on the basis of comments and proposals from different stakeholders, in terms of simplifying or eliminating administrative burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 13th urgent meeting, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Act as its parent labour force. At the 23rd meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was attended by the presidents of certain chambers, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and representatives of the Apes and the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The Committee was also informed of the following material: amendments by SDS, the People's Party, DeSUS and New Slovenia to Article 7 of the bill, amendments by the MEP mag. Mr Vogrina to 73rd, 158th to 167th, 685th and 686th articles of the bill and with a proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have also been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 7, 11, 12, 15, 16, 20, 23 and 24. With regard to the comments of the service in writing concerning the termination of a silent company, the Head of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted the positive sides of a silent company as one of the forms of companies in which a profitable activity is carried out. He stressed that the possibility of abuse in the opinion of the service was already prevented by the so-called Institute of Law from overlooking legal persons. With regard to the comments of the service on the transitional arrangements, he stressed that this was duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups. He also explained that most of the specific comments made by the service under an article of the bill were also taken into account in the amendments of the so-called coalition groups. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, individual members of the committee and invited to express their support for the bill in particular with regard to the removal of administrative burdens. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Article 8 of the bill. The Committee adopted amendments to articles 7, 11, 12, 15, 16, 20, 23 and 24 of the proposal. The Committee also voted on and adopted all the articles of the law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which is also an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u15	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The current amendment of the company law introduces in particular those changes which today burden the Slovenian economy. Above all, it was about listening to the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, Ipes. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that all these changes will have an impact on the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, in particular in order to reduce the administrative burdens, which are at present one of the biggest obstacles to economic growth. We consider very positive that the silent society instrument is also being deleted, regardless of the fact that silent companies have already known in the Roman law, that most of them are aware of the laws on companies in European countries, but it is doubtless that Slovenia is still a transit state and that during the transition period we will in particular reduce the conflict of interest and, in particular, damage to state property on the basis of known cases from the past that have occurred with silent societies and silent associates. For all this reason, the SDS Group will also support this proposed amendment to the company law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u17	Thanks again. I'll be extremely brief. While in the Group of Social Democrats we support the objective of a bill aimed at eliminating the uncertainties and administrative burdens that individual stakeholders in the economy are pointing out in particular. The bill contains news that takes into account the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, APIS and other stakeholders. Of course, we are not so optimistic that this law will eliminate the non-competitiveness of our companies, but we will still adopt law in the Group of Social Democrats. However, we would point out to the Government that it also adopts such laws on a regular basis, that there will be significantly more opportunities for debate, for exchange of views and that the professional public will also be more involved in this. The only thing we find controversial about this law is the deletion of the Institute of Silent Society. The Secretary of State said that only four such silent companies were registered in Slovenia, and according to practice in Europe, we are abolishing this institution, which we do not think is good, but we will still adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister! Today we are interfering with the basic system law in the field of company status law governing the establishment, organisation and operation of economic operators. The proposed amendments were mainly due to the warnings of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Apes and also the Chamber of Commerce and other stakeholders and the interested public. In practice, there have been some shortcomings and difficulties in implementing the applicable law. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry noted, inter alia, the shortcomings and difficulties and the need to shorten the deadline for the removal of the entrepreneur from the Business Register of Slovenia. Apes and the Chamber of Commerce have also proposed to allow entrepreneurs and companies to pay compensation for the publication of annual reports after publication and not in advance, as provided for in the law in force. The Chamber of Commerce drew attention to the ambiguity of certain articles of the current law in the work governing conflicts of interest. The publication in the Official Journal is also transmitted to the website of the Apes. With the proposed arrangement, this will not be published in the Official Journal if the Company Act imposes the obligation to publish it, but rather on the Apple website in the Publications section of the Company Act. The draft law also deletes the entire chapter on silent society and further defines and sanctions the conflict of interests between society and its supervisory and management authorities. The main objective of the proposed amendments and additions is thus to eliminate the ambiguities and administrative burdens which they have been alerting for a long time and which have in practice occurred. All these restrictions have led to a number of doubts and complications in the proceedings. In the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, we will support the draft law because we believe that the proposed solutions are urgently needed and will not only address the uncertainties raised by the stakeholders mentioned above, but also eliminate a good part of the unnecessary costs and administrative obstacles.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u21	Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Vice President! We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies in the Slovenian People's Party. In fact, it is a number of changes in individual articles which, for the first time, reduce the deadlines for removal from the record, then allow the transfer of the enterprise to its family members and transfer certain powers to Apes and other changes. There are also changes in certain areas of criminal provisions. It is also important to increase the level of annual revenue that entrepreneurs will be able to manage through simple accounting. This amendment is a very interesting amendment to Article 274 which instructs the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board to present at the Assembly, before his election, his past professional completion and the work he is currently doing as if that had not been so far. In view of the state of affairs in which we, apparently the worlds of our work, have not done their work to a large extent. We were also able to hear this at the previous point, which was closed to the public, for which we would still have a headache. The latest news, or one of the new ones, is to ban, delete the chapter on so-called silent societies. As you know, we should not be operating quietly with public companies right now, but even more than that, if you remember, a year ago and something when we warned that the company's CEO was a co-owner of a silent company, a silent co-owner of a silent company, and this silent company was operating with this public company. But this director was not only that, even the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, who today is also in such trouble that the whole country is in pain, including with his responsibility. I hope, not only because of this law on companies, but also because of everything else, that someone will be responsible for their misdemeanours, including Danila Toplek. Finally, economic growth certainly does not require just subsidies and non-refundable money, financial injections and so on, it is very important that legislation is so made that it simplifies procedures and relieves and eliminates unnecessary administration. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, as I have already mentioned, we will support the law, but we are aware that this is one of the smaller stones in this mosaic of further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, Minister, Secretary of State, I also welcome all Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the Dessus Group. The proposed amendments to the company law aim to improve the business environment. The bill takes into account the key principles for greater cost-effectiveness and simplification of procedures. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the principle of transparency in the operation of companies and the conclusion of business with other companies is also strengthened. The principle of reducing administrative burdens will be achieved by transferring the publications imposed on companies by law from the Official Journal to the website of Apes, with the publication imposed by the law as mandatory being free of charge. The other acts published by the companies in accordance with their statutes will be payable in accordance with the payment rate of Apes to be regulated by the Ministry of the Economy. Of course, there are expectations that the costs incurred today by business operators in relation to publications in official newspapers will be significantly lower. The bill solves uncertainties in the field of open issues concerning conflicts of interest. The new provision is thus improved in such a way that all those who are leading companies, i.e. managers, directors, prosecutors, would have to obtain the approval of the supervisory or management board of the company in which they or their family have a combined tenth of the ownership, and also, if ownership is less than a tenth, they would have to inform the supervisors or the board of directors within three days of the conclusion. The next change saved by this novel is the transfer of the entrepreneur, the so-called espionage to the family members already during the life of the entrepreneur, which will make it much easier for interested young entrepreneurs who would like to take over the business of the ancestors. In order to avoid manipulation of the company's transfer, it must be made clear that both the entrepreneur and the acquirer are responsible for the business obligations. There are even more changes in this law that we support in the DeSUS Group. It certainly includes a detailed presentation of candidates for members of the Supervisory Boards and Management Boards before they are confirmed by the Assembly. We also welcome the reduction in the annual income limit to which the entrepreneur can lead a simple bookkeeping and a proportionate reduction in certain fines for offences committed by small companies. With regard to the removal or removal of silent societies from the law and thus from our business environment, let me say that in view of the many abuses and the exploitation of hidden relations between the partners that can now take place, the lifting of such relations is appropriate if we are to avoid abuse and ensure more transparency in the business environment. As has already been said, the DeSUS Group supports the solutions provided by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first of all my sincere regret that there is almost one third of the Slovenian Parliament called Positive Slovenia. I truly regret the week-long obstruction of the very important meeting of the National Assembly. I am grateful to you, Madam Vice-President, that at least you represent the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly. Now to the law. Economists are right when they say that the country should provide them with a particularly favourable business environment and they will be able to conclude and carry out their own business. We received very similar responses from Members of New Slovenia when we met entrepreneurs in various Slovenian regions and asked them about their problems. In preparing the amendment to the Company Act, we have therefore tried to follow in particular to ensure that, in certain circumstances, an appropriate business environment is provided as quickly as possible with certain changes to the economy. The proposal for a law therefore eliminates certain uncertainties and weaknesses in existing legislation. The changes are mainly aimed at reducing administrative barriers, which were first pointed out by entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce, Slovenia, Apes and other interested public. Let me list some of the novelties of the Company Act. First time. The Law will introduce the publication of the company’s annual report, not in the Official Journal anymore, but on the website of Apes, the remuneration for publication will be significantly lower than it was now and will only be paid after publication. Another time. The deadline for the removal of an independent entrepreneur from the business register shall be reduced. Third time. There is an increase in the annual income limit to which the entrepreneur can lead a simple bookkeeping. Fourth time. It also introduces the possibility of simply transferring the part of the company or the company in its entirety to the children of the entrepreneur or its nearest. It is prepared for the purpose of facilitating the business of both large and small enterprises and finally providing them with an environment in which they can focus primarily on business ideas and their implementation. The new Slovenia will try to help in this by supporting the law in its proposed form. We will also support the proposed amendment and will also monitor the implementation of the Law on Economic Companies in Life and also propose any necessary changes in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As I note that an amendment has been tabled, we are moving on to the debate on Article 8 and the amendment tabled by the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment to this Article, and I am asking for an application if anyone would like to discuss it. I don't see any desire to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a bill to prevent delays in payments by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. I now note that the representative of the Ministry of Finance is not here. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u27	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 27th urgent session. 7. The proposal for a law on the prevention of late payments submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for the treatment and adoption following an urgent procedure was considered by the parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 23rd session of 10. 7. decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Council of State and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introduction to the explanation of the articles, the Minister of Finance, as a representative of the proposed law, gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. In particular, the law introduces two major innovations, namely a new instrument for payment insurance or an enforcer and a compulsory netting system. The Executive is a document with the irrevocable authority of the debtor's signatory to allow the creditor to repay the debt on the executing bank where the debtor has its assets in the account. This is a stronger payment insurance since it allows for payment from any debtor's account. The law also provides for some administrative simplifications, including the abolition of the maximum allowed 120-day payment period. With regard to technical changes, the Minister mentioned in particular a longer deadline for entering into multilateral netting obligations. Nor will it be necessary to report obligations of less than €250 in the mandatory net. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A good year ago, the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments was passed in the National Assembly and the ambition of the law was to contribute to the normalisation of the economy and compliance with payment deadlines. The non-payment of accounts has become a very common way of cooperating with business partners. There are more reasons why payments were not made on a regular basis, and not all are speculative in nature. Or, in other words, not all of the unscrupulous or fraudulent intentions of the unscrupulous have been pursued by the unscrupulous. The main reason for the non-payments was then and is still a lack of money in circulation. The reasons for payment non-discipline are therefore much deeper. The data from Apes show that the situation in the economy has worsened with regard to late payment from the moment the law is now in force. The average amount of outstanding liabilities due on a daily basis is almost €800 million. And only those for whom enforcement procedures have been introduced, the actual situation is so much worse. Whether the law that we are adopting today will bring about an improvement, we cannot know at this time, but it is certainly a step forward, as it removes the shortcomings that have been detected in the implementation of the applicable law, inter alia, removes the maximum payment deadline and introduces the so-called executive as an instrument of payment insurance. The executioner is a very powerful tool, and on the other hand it may also be worthless paper if there is no adequate coverage in the debtor's account. Therefore, entrepreneurs will have to act very carefully and very responsibly when issuing or taking over an executive. They must be aware of both the positive and negative benefits of such a mode of business insurance. In the SDS Group, we estimate that the bill is an appropriate upgrade to the existing system, a step forward towards improving payment discipline, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u30	Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats Procedural. Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to draw attention to one fact. We were told today and in these days that there are exceptional conditions in Slovenia. It is necessary to adopt some laws that are crucial to help the economy. For this reason, the Social Democrats also insist on this meeting, despite the possibility of obstructing or playing certain games. However, at least what we expect from the Government and the competent minister is that when it comes to such an important law as the resolution of payment discipline to join us. This is the moment I saw the minister, so I thank him. Minister, thank you so much for coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Otherwise, Mr Han, Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of the fact that the Government is not necessarily present at the meetings. It is clearly stated here that this is not necessary, but the right to demand or condition. Now the minister is here, but I'll tell you that anyway. Otherwise, I would suggest with regard to obstruction – if it is called obstruction or, as you say, other games, the decision of each parliamentary group is not to make the public feel different. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u33	Respected and respected! The main feature of this bill is the introduction of an enforcer, an enforcer as a document containing the irrevocable mandate of the debtor to pay the executing agent from the funds in his account or to pay the creditor from the assets in the debtor's account. While we welcome this instrument, we note that, in view of the extensive comments made by the profession, it is doubtful whether this measure is feasible. We fear that perhaps an idea that could help overcome payment non-discipline will in practice not come to life because the instrument in the law is extremely incomplete. We are also afraid that this is a continuation of the error in the diagnosis of the underlying problem. Whether in Slovenia we have a problem with payment non-discipline or 'indebt', that is to say, with the issue of inability to deal with our obligations on an ongoing basis. The enforcement undertaking is stricter than the monetary commitment, as the debtor agrees by issuing the executive, that the creditor may require the performance of the obligations from the executing entity in the burden of the cash held in any debtor's account with any payment service provider. By issuing an enforcer, the debtor shall also allow the payment service provider to be presented to him for payment by law to prevent the debtor from having access to his money until the executioner has been paid. The bill therefore introduces a new tool to protect creditors by the example of the Croatian debtor, even though some important differences are to be mentioned. In Croatia, this can also be an instrument used by natural persons in the settlement of mutual obligations or claims. The government is therefore putting a lot of hopes on this instrument to improve payment discipline. On the other hand, the Bank of Slovenia considers that the proposed instrument, as set out in the proposal for a law, will not provide better conditions for achieving greater payment discipline on the market, but may have many negative consequences, especially for debtors, as well as for creditors and the general public. Finally, caution in the introduction of the instrument has been pointed out in the government procedure for examining this law also by the Office of the Government of Law. The Notary Chamber of Slovenia also advises caution in the introduction of this instrument. Obviously, hand-to-hand treatment of the law does actually cause damage to the economy, because it does not really take into account the problems of practice. It is important to draw attention to one more aspect: that we do not reach a new turn-off deadline. So that payment discipline will not be reduced, but rather increased. In view of the Government’s super-sustainable measures, the effect may be quite reversed. For the government itself is causing a lack of discipline of payments and, given the fact that the law no longer allows a 120-day ceiling, it may be that, above all, larger companies will be squeezed by smaller companies, extended payment deadlines, and thus, despite good intentions, large remarks, we will not achieve anything. Soon we will be able to discuss the effects of this law. Social Democrats are afraid you're putting too much hope in him. But we will not oppose you on the way to his reception.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u35	Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The main objectives of the ambitious law on the prevention of late payments are to reduce the payment indiscipline and quickly and effectively pay off creditors by introducing an additional payment insurance instrument, harmonising payment deadlines with the provisions of the Directive, establishing a supervisory authority over the implementation of the law and payment deadlines flowing from receipt of the account, reducing the administrative and economic burden of economic operators – which was a major weakness of the law so far and represented a shift from business practice – to lay down obligations on exceptions and rules of compulsory multilateral netting, to impose a threshold of EUR 250 for the obligation to pay off on the principle of economics and to regulate the international element by ensuring that the Slovenian economy is as competitive as possible, to regulate the register of persons protested for non-payment and obligations with solidarity debtors and creditors. The new establishment of the deadline for entering commitments into the mandatory multilateral netting system significantly facilitates the operation of accounting services and services. The Executive does not have the ambition of a currency or an acceptable task, but it is a completely new instrument that complements both of those instruments with all its values and weaknesses. This is a demanding insurance instrument for which only the most competent economic operators should be cautious, and for all others, this law does not impose it. However, in order to ensure that the debtor enjoys an adequate level of security against possible abuses of the executing entity, the draft law provides for strict personality, mandatory signature verification and entry into the register of executives at Apes. The execution shall in no way prejudice the rules of insolvency and enforcement procedures, except that it itself constitutes an executive address. And it is true, it is a rabble in the European space, which is considered an opportunity. The law is good. At the same time, it fully follows the commitments made both in the coalition agreement and in the programme of our party, and the National Gazette will therefore support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u37	Your Honor! In the Amended Law on the Prevention of Late Payments, we are trying to tackle a very large problem in the Slovenian economy – in payment non-discipline. Thus, the main solutions to this law are, in particular, the introduction of a new instrument for payment insurance, the so-called executive, which we have not known so far. The second is changes that mean more life and less administrative arrangements for the mandatory netting system. If I touch the executor a little bit, it is a document containing the irrevocable authority of the signatory, that is to say that the creditor may, at any Slovenian bank where the debtor has its assets in the account, repay the debt that is stated on the executioner. Although this is an optional instrument, we are also convinced in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that there will be certain movements in the business standards themselves. However, the executive will begin to separate good payers from those slightly less reliable, and we expect them to simplify and shorten the procedures for mutual debt relations. A few changes are also made to the mandatory settlement arrangements, especially on the basis of past experience from practice, this regime is becoming more viable and practical. Although many do not admire this type of resolution of mutual debt relations and would like to end it, this instrument has, in particular, made business easier for small businesses. Remember, mutual debt decreased by about €900 million a year, which is not negligible. The law introduces a slightly different recording of the netting obligation as a complement to this instrument and provides for a minimum amount. The supervisory authorities and the powers of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia are also very clearly defined. Despite many good solutions, it is worth noting that neither the enforcement measure nor the correction of compulsory netting solves all problems of payment discipline. Whoever has bad intentions or has already decided in advance to avoid payment is likely to find it difficult for an executive to get to life, for if there is no money in the debtor’s account, then the banks with the executive have nothing to take. That I don't mention those who have accounts that are exclusively open abroad. The issue is also the issue of insurance for claims in professions where competition is very high, and practically those who specifically demand an executive in business will be less competitive. We have received such comments from the field that it is easy to do business where 10, 20 small subcontractors compete for some business will simply be preferred by the one who will not require the executor. In so doing, we are reminding the Slovenian People's Party of the two main problems not covered by this law. The first is regular payments by the State and its companies, as well as by indirect budget consumers and municipalities. Until payment discipline is there, it is difficult to expect it elsewhere. Finally, we must speed up the proceedings in the courts. Procedures for the enforcement and resolution of disputes in the area of non-payments are absolutely long. People are still year after year waiting for solutions to cases where, for example, they have not received a paid product service or are unable to recover the debtor themselves. If the case is clear and clear that the case has not been paid and the debtor has assets at the same time, then it must be resolved by a rapid procedure, but not by a number of complaints, that the debtor can take the procedure for several years, but that the company that has not received the payment can fail long ago. With this law and with the solution of these two problems, we would already be very close to limiting payment non-discipline. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Payment non-discipline is becoming increasingly a problem that is visibly reflected in the general inefficiencies of business entities. The longer-term illiquidity of one company, similar to those of the dominants, triggers the chain failure of several companies in the long run. Creditors need external funding due to late payments, which is more difficult to access during the period of economic downturn and delays can even cause bankruptcy of healthy companies. This has been a good time, especially during the recent financial or economic crisis. In doing so, there are more vulnerable micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which in our country represent the backbone of the economy, while large business systems have slightly more room for manoeuvre to exit liquidity problems. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that companies and state authorities themselves are making a substantial lack of compliance with payment deadlines. We also raise the question of whether the country or every time the government has responded sufficiently and adequately to the very pressing issue and whether the warnings of experts, various institutions and even entrepreneurs themselves are always present. From the time of independence up to now, several laws have been passed regulating this area. Obviously, however, the legislation adopted so far has not led to an expected improvement. We have before us a law on the prevention of late payments in which we are new to the development of a legal and business environment with a view to better solving the problem of late payments. As the amendment suggests, the current measures to combat payment non-discipline are being improved and new ones are being introduced. It thus introduces an enforcer, removes limits of payment deadlines for economic operators and technically complements the law in force now. The introduction of a new instrument in the fight against payment non-discipline, i.e. the Executive, makes sense, since, in addition to existing instruments, this will be an additional instrument for direct recovery of debt. The executive shall include the irrevocable authority of the signatory, i.e. the creditor of the bank, to pay the executing entity out of the funds in any account of the debtor. In the DeSUS Group, we do not expect this new law to abolish payment indiscipline overnight, because today it is deeply rooted in us and has potential for crisis. However, we believe that it will help to improve the situation. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister! Yes, we are talking about payment non-discipline, but in defining payment non-discipline we must certainly be exact. Whether we are talking about non-discipline of payments if an entity does not have money and cannot pay its obligations, it does not have money because some buyer has not settled its obligations to that undertaking because it does not have money or because it is undisciplined. Paying non-discipline certainly has a negative impact on liquidity, competitiveness and the development of economic operators and complicates their financial management. As a result of delays in payments, we need external funding, which is more difficult or difficult to access during the period of economic downturn. The measures taken to revive economic growth should pay particular attention to payment discipline. At the local visits of Members of the New Slovenia Group, which I have already mentioned, entrepreneurs, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, remind us of the necessary legislative measures in this area. Many successful companies with good and promising programmes have agreed to a compulsory settlement or even bankruptcy solely because of the failure to pay or the untimely payment of their customers. The adoption of the bill is therefore urgently necessary to reduce the negative effects of payment non-discipline on creditors and thus prevent the described severely remedial effects on economic operators and, consequently, on the functioning of the State. In recent years, however, a number of regulations have been adopted aimed at improving the remuneration of creditors' claims. Among others, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance was amended. However, it has been shown that these initiatives have not been sufficient since the difficulties in payment discipline have not been reduced. As an additional measure, the Executive is therefore to be imposed. The executing entity shall be given by the signatory, the debtor who is the economic operator, to the bank to pay the liabilities from the assets in its account, the holder of the executing entity, that is to say to the creditor. On the basis of an enforcer, the creditor may require the fulfilment of the obligations under the liability of the cash held in any debtor's account in respect of any payment service provider. However, the executing authority shall strengthen the position of debtor, and the debtor shall enjoy an adequate level of security and protection against abuse of the executing entity, as the law provides that the executing entity shall have no legal effect if it is not entered in the register at Apes. As an effective instrument for eliminating payment discipline, the Executive has already shown itself in practice so far, perhaps I should also mention here examples of good practice among neighbours in Croatia. We therefore expect that, in conjunction with the other measures to eliminate payment non-discipline, the Executive will contribute to the elimination of late payments. The law also introduces certain so-called technical solutions, such as the length and duration of payment deadlines and the minimum amount to include the claim in the mandatory multilateral net. All these innovations, according to Members of the New Slovenia Group, will contribute significantly to improving the employment situation in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why we're going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the construction of buildings by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For the additional submission of the bill I give the floor to the representative of the Government, here I welcome Mr Zvonk Černač, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, and give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u43	All present and well-known greetings in my name as well! The annual report of the World Bank of Slovenia on the acquisition of appropriate building permits currently ranks 81st among the 183 countries of the world. The World Bank's report is particularly clear of the excessive number of procedures needed to obtain the building permit and the unreasonable time frame. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space for this purpose, in the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction of Buildings Act, was based on the reasons for removing administrative barriers, reducing and evaluating procedures. In the context of the amendment of this law, allow me to highlight some of the most important points arising from the amendment of the provisions. The first focus is on removing the obligation to acquire project conditions, and it is left to the investor to acquire project conditions if assessed. Second, the shortening of the time limits for the issue of consent, the deadlines are set at 15, 30 and 60 days respectively and cannot be extended, as established by the principle of the silence of the Authority. The consistent application of this principle of silence by the Authority also means that there will be an expiry of a period within which the relevant authority should respond to the issue or non-examination of a decision. The decision will no longer be taken into account in the procedure itself and the procedure which has been initiated and which will run on the basis of the principle of silence of the Authority will be continued. One of the major changes concerns allowing for a larger number of construction operations without the need for appropriate administrative permits, building permits. We have achieved this through a different definition of maintenance works, in which we extend this set of investment maintenance works, simplified, anything that does not interfere with the construction of the building, can be managed on the basis of maintenance works and without obtaining any permits. We believe that, on the one hand, these measures will help to speed up the implementation of individual activities, as well as to accelerate economic development in the part where these administrative barriers have been hampered by effective implementation or execution of individual construction works. It is also important to provide for the construction of self-sustainment buildings. Technology has progressed significantly over the past period; on the other hand, it is not possible in all environments where construction is possible to connect to existing utility systems. For this reason, we have made it possible in the law to build self-sustainment buildings which, in accordance with the progress of technology, draw individual elements of energy self-sustainment from this title. We have simplified the procedure for obtaining usable permits; it is a one-bedroom building where, under the law so far, this usable permit has been a document without any formal substantive value. For this reason, it is now left to the investor to decide for himself whether such a usable permit will be requested or not, there is no obligation to obtain a usable permit for one-bedroom buildings, and facilities can be used without this document. It is a very important provision which speaks of the abolition of the obligation to revise the project documentation. With regard to this provision, I must say that there have been quite a number of professional concerns, including a number of discussions on this subject, but in the end, the conviction has prevailed that this obligation to review has in many cases turned into some procedures that are of great self-intention, but do not constitute additional guarantees in better design and do not, in the end, untie the designer's responsibility for possible design errors. In order to remove the obligation of this audit, investors shall be left to decide for themselves whether to revise the project documentation in cases where they consider that this is necessary, in particular in cases where more complex facilities are involved, to be requested or not. There are also some of these provisions in this amendment to the law. We are not making illusions that only this change will help to speed up the installation and acquisition of construction permits, but we believe that this is an important step on this path. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Infrastructure and Space Committee as the parent labour body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u45	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 10th urgent meeting, on 12 July, the Infrastructure and Space Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction of Buildings Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The representative of the applicant pointed out in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendments and additions to the law are aimed at reducing and evaluating procedures and eliminating administrative barriers. The main solutions have already been presented by the Minister before me. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service to the draft law had given a broad opinion, with some nomotechnic comments and comments of a legal system nature with the amendments tabled not being fully taken into account. She pointed out that the proposed solutions were not fully completed by nomotechnical means, which could not be corrected by amendments, as certain amendments to the proposal for a law should also be amended or supplemented by articles which were not subject to amendment and could not be affected. The Vice-President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission's proposal supports, in particular, the shortening of the deadlines for the issue of consent and the principle of the silence of the Authority, as a result of a number of past points to the longevity of the procedures and the non-responsibility of the competent authorities. After a lengthy discussion, members of opposition parliamentary groups expressed opposition to the proposed amendments and amendments to the current law. In their view, the adoption of the bill by emergency procedure is inappropriate. Members of the coalition's parliamentary groups, however, supported the proposed solutions in the amendment of the law in the debate and expressed their conviction that they would help reduce procedures and remove administrative barriers. They expressed their conviction that the procedures for obtaining construction and usable permits and that the documentation currently in force were inconsistent and long-term, and that the proposed amendment would be corrected accordingly after the adoption of the law. In their view, the proposed solutions will have a positive impact on potential investors, in particular foreign investors, whose long-term procedures to obtain construction documentation have often been diverted from investment in Slovenia. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as its two amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u47	Mr. Secretary, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it would have to be said that the law had a good purpose and that this purpose would probably not be achieved. That the proposed rapid procedure was that, as a result of this, it was not possible to have a sufficient professional debate and the profession has the most comments on everything that Mr Minister has said very well. Some say that the marriage is professionally inconsistent and that it will not reduce deadlines and bring only confusion into this area. I'll try to say something. Above all, my comment is on short notices where it was not possible to harmonise everything, whatever it was necessary to harmonise. In addition, Mr Minister on the Committee said that we will change the law completely at the end of the year or at the beginning of the following year, which means that this time it is not fully adopted, since this law affects the Law on Environmental Protection, the Waters Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Spatial Placement, the regulation of State importance in space. What are the comments? The legislature has an extremely large number of comments on all these laws that we receive on the committees themselves, and therefore you cannot look very closely at what these comments are. However, the comments are similar. Public competitions that some say should be project conditions, public interest. Is the public interest guaranteed? Construction in its own directing, maintenance works for which some feel that there is no need for a building permit to affect stability. Then the audit, which Mr Minister says was not always necessary, agrees, and some say it would be right. The building permit, where or why it's borderline. Some point out that the adoption of the law will have difficult remedial effects on the environment and water as well. In fact, it is also a question of allowing self-sustainment in an area where economic public service is provided, the infrastructure for drinking water supply, the cleaning of municipal and waste water, and thus the underutilisation of this municipal infrastructure. There is also agreement on the establishment of utility and control. In fact, the most important thing in this law is the legalization of black buildings between 1. 1st of 1967 and 25. 6. 2003, without an environmental impact assessment. In fact, there is still a lot to be done here, because in this case the consequences can be very great. It is also a matter of excluding the professional and general public from the process under the cover of urgency, perhaps providing services to stakeholders, serious, complex structural problems will be solved with changes, i.e. quickly, and will increase these structural problems. The proposed amendments only deal minimally with the shortening of the time limits within which the co-operators will issue decisions, so there is no sanction for those who do not issue decisions. As long as the organs are 60 days old, investors are waiting for consent for one year, let's say the response of the Environment Agency. Because of all this, we will not support the Social Democrats of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In 2010, the Ministry of Public Administration implemented a project called Minus 25%, aimed at analysing existing regulations and preparing measures to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens. The specific area of the environment and the area covered by over 700 regulations has proved to be the most problematic. Thus, investors, the economy, mayors and citizens grumble over the stiffness, longevity and complexity of the procedures for obtaining construction documentation. The existing spatial legislation is too often a bar in the development of the economy and changes are therefore necessary. Before us is the first package of changes to spatial legislation to be decided in the course of this extraordinary meeting. The changes do not constitute a revolution in the area of installation and construction of buildings, but they still await us, and these changes will speed up and shorten the administrative procedures for obtaining construction documentation and will also appreciate the process itself. The novelty thus removes the mandatory acquisition of project conditions for investors, the investor remains under an obligation to obtain agreement on project solutions in the project to obtain a building permit. It simplifies and reduces the administrative procedure for issuing a building permit, as a fictitious service of invitations and decisions is being established. It is also considered that if an investor enters into a contract with the owner of the land with which it has the right to build, these party participants agree to the construction and the building permit is only served. In the Civil Gazette, we particularly welcome solutions that enable the construction of self-sufficient or self-sustainment facilities also on building sites that do not yet have built minimum municipal facilities. Simplification of the definition of maintenance works for which a building permit does not need to be obtained, allowing for easy energy renovation of buildings, suspension of the compulsory acquisition of a usable permit for one-bedroom buildings and greater responsibility for designers. Because of all the solutions mentioned above, the members of the National Gazette will support the draft law. The real overflight and simplification of spatial legislation is yet to come. According to the Minister, it will start in the autumn and will involve both the professional and other interested public in the preparation. In addition to procedural optimization, we stress the need to simplify forms and applications, introduce process information, establish an electronic data exchange system on project documentation procedures, introduce a central set of administrative acts and establish and regularly update a comprehensive spatial and real estate record.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen! The new Construction Act is one of the most important laws that we are considering at this extraordinary meeting, as it will have the most direct effect on both Slovenian and foreign citizens who intend to invest in construction investments. The main purpose of the solutions proposed in the amendment to the Construction of Buildings Act is therefore to simplify and, in particular, reduce all procedures related to building permits, which the Slovenian People's Party believes will have a positive impact mainly on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Such simplifications lay the basis for the relaunching of the investment cycle and the consequent start-up of certain sectors of the economy, in particular construction, and are followed in the principle of the removal of administrative barriers. What does the proposed law specifically bring? The deadlines for issuing all types of consent shall be reduced and the principle of silence of the Authority shall be applied in public, unless the consent is given within the time limit. The optional decision-making of the investor in the acquisition of project conditions shall be applied. Important changes are also in the field of foreign participants in the process of obtaining a building permit. The fiction of the service of invitations and decisions is being established, which will have a positive effect mainly on the planning of long-term facilities of public economic infrastructure. The obligation to obtain a building permit for the modification of the purpose of simple and non-requisitive facilities shall be removed. It is also possible to build self-sufficient buildings in areas where municipal infrastructure is not yet available. However, a change in the definition of maintenance works removes the dilemma as to whether a building permit is necessary or not for the execution of maintenance works, which will make it easier to maintain buildings. The proposed amendments also remove the mandatory revision of the project documentation, which at first we were not the most excited about in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but after further consideration we have assessed that such termination will not have a negative impact on the safety of buildings and persons, since all projects must already be prepared in accordance with the legislation. After all, the designer is responsible for the proper implementation of the entire project. However, the task of the professional organisations responsible for licensing is that they take care of the professional competence of the designers as much as possible. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are fully aware that the proposed solutions are not a magic wand that would solve all the problems in the construction of buildings, because of the complexity of the area in such a short time. However, we believe that these solutions send a positive signal to both domestic and foreign investors that the country of Slovenia is taking a decisive step towards decommissioning the economy and improving its competitiveness and eliminating administrative barriers to natural and legal persons. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the Construction Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u53	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, once again to all colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Construction Act is part of a package of novels of environmental laws, which all follow the objective that in the case of smaller, less demanding buildings in a relatively short period of time, with less resources than so far for different consents, the investor's aim of building the facility in its entirety is to achieve the desired objective. This novel, which is ahead of us, introduces solutions in order to relieve all levels of decision-making in the process of issuing building permits. The law thus removes the obligation to acquire project conditions, the decision is left to the designer, the deadlines for issuing approvals are reduced, the principle is applied that the special rules of those deadlines cannot be otherwise regulated, the possibility of suspending the procedures for issuing a construction permit in the event of an agreement on the expiry of the deadline is abolished, the rules on the participation of party participants in the process of issuing a construction permit are laid down with a view to speeding up the procedures. Amendments to the law also allow, inter alia, the construction of self-sustainment buildings when energy and environmental solutions are used or where municipal equipment is not built. It also facilitates the energy renovation of the building and introduces the rule that a building, on the basis of a building permit, will be granted a useful permit only if the investor explicitly so requests. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that the amendment of the law is a simpler, faster and cheaper way to carry out the construction investment, so we will support Members and Members of the DeSUS Group's proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The new Law on the Construction of Buildings is primarily a measure to remove administrative obstacles in obtaining consensus on the issue of a building permit. The most important novelty is the shortening of the deadlines for the issue of consent in the acquisition of building permits and the consistent application of the principle of'silence is approval'. Even though the General Administrative Procedure Act already provides for a period of 30 or 60 days for the issue of the requested consent, the co-operators have not complied with those deadlines without being sanctioned in any way. Investors had to wait for a decision on the application for consent for a period of six months or more. Thus, the procedure for issuing a building permit, if more than one co-operator was involved, may have lasted for several years. Legislative changes to eliminate unjustifiedly long-term authorisation procedures are necessary and necessary if our aim is to – and let us hope that this is the purpose of all of us – to push the wheel of economic development forward. The possibility of obtaining construction permits within a reasonable time is also necessary because of the interest of foreign investors, who, as a main reason why Slovenia is not interested in foreign investment, cite complex and long administrative procedures in obtaining different types of permits, including construction permits. The speedy process of issuing building permits will also contribute to reducing the burden on administrative authorities on matters relating to the acquisition of building maintenance permits and the abolition of the compulsory acquisition of a use permit for a one-bedroom house. We also welcome the construction of self-sustaining buildings that use energy and environmentally more efficient solutions. This form of construction is possible and desirable in terms of technological developments, as well as environmentally friendly. It is our expectations that it will greatly help to revive the countryside and preserve the population of the country. In many places so far, the barrier to new construction has been a lack of municipal equipment, although wally land with plumbing and sewerage. So, enough of the reasons that I have outlined to support Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Law on Construction of Buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is pleased to support the Construction Act, as the amendments and additions to this Act shorten and accelerate administrative procedures in the area of construction while at the same time appreciating these procedures for the investor. What are the main solutions to changing the law? The compulsory acquisition of project conditions, an investor or responsible designer may decide on its own whether or not to obtain project conditions for all or only parts of the project. The possibility of suspending the procedure for issuing a building permit shall be abolished if the consent is issued after the time limit for issuing such consent has expired and the principle of silence of the authority applied after the expiry of the deadline for issuing project conditions and consents without exception. Shorter deadlines are set for the issue of project conditions. The amendment shall prevent other sectoral rules of agreement from providing for different deadlines. In all cases, the issuing of a building permit shall be terminated by requiring the invitation to tender by leaving the decision to the administrative authority, allowing for a faster way of informing the parties of the intended construction. A fictitious service of invitations and decisions shall be established in the procedures for issuing building permits by publication on the notice board and on the websites to party parties who could not be served for different reasons. Where an investor with a landowner enters into a contract by which he has the right to build, it shall be deemed that those party participants agree to the construction and that the building permit shall only be issued to them. It follows European trends in the construction of self-sustainment facilities by allowing the construction of buildings on building sites, even if they do not have built minimum municipal facilities. A more precise definition of the facility and a clearer definition of what is considered to be soil-related decreases the number of buildings for which a building permit is to be obtained and, consequently, a lower pressure on the construction inspection is expected. The definition of maintenance works simplifies the understanding of the concept of maintenance of the facility and eliminates the duplication of the definition of maintenance works. A modified dictatorship enables, inter alia, simple energy renovations of buildings. The investor may designate any person who fulfils the conditions for the responsible designer as the responsible project manager and the responsible manager of the construction site as the project manager. The amendment introduces the rule that a building built on the basis of a building permit shall be subject to a valid permit only if the investor expressly so requests. Under this law it is possible to legalise certain objects, of course under the conditions of the provisions of this law. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the Construction Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u58	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on spatial planning by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u59	Once again a nice greeting to all present! There is also a new law on spatial planning ahead of us. The aim of this novel is to remove some problems in the preparation of municipal spatial acts, in particular municipal spatial plans, in order to enable them to be prepared as quickly as possible and to modify and complement them later and thus provide the appropriate legal basis for the implementation of municipal development projects and for increased investment. The purpose of the law is also to improve the content of spatial planning and to ensure quality municipal spatial regulation, which is reflected in the orderliness or irregularity of the Slovenian space. Let me just mention the most important changes to this law. The procedure for determining the consistency of the OP before its adoption shall be terminated. This gives us some greater weight and sovereignty to the local authorities, who are both responsible for the procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial plans. Of course, we maintain this regulatory nature or supervisory function. The general guidelines of the state-owned area regulators for the preparation of municipal spatial plans shall be introduced in advance. To date, however, the guidelines for each specific UNP will be optional. A new assessment of individual initiatives to change the destination of land before the formal initiation of the procedure is introduced. A special short process of amending and supplementing municipal spatial plans and municipal detailed spatial plans is being introduced. Under certain conditions, the possibility of modifying the more detailed use laid down in the OPPN shall be introduced. Notwithstanding the applicable system arrangements, up to 1 shall be made within a limited period of time. 1. 2015 allows for smaller enlargements, i.e. functional roundings of building plots, without amending spatial acts on the basis of a municipal council decision and in the previous opinion of the two sector ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry responsible for space. State spatial order shall be established as a set of rules for the regulation of premises. And if certain conditions are met, the investor can provide self-sustainment of the facility with a variety of utility equipment, as we discussed in the amendment of the building law. I would particularly like to point out Article 19 of the Law, given that there was a broad debate on it on the Committee yesterday. Finally, the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, which was tabled today, was reintroduced into Article 29. I think that there was and that there is probably still some misunderstanding about these provisions. These provisions, if you read them, are very clear, decisive and stipulate that, in the case of existing grounds, the extension of this area is permitted under the conditions laid down by law, provided that the municipal council so decides on the initiative of the investor and that, if a prior opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry responsible for the premises is obtained, of course, also applies to the area of expansion of this building, which is mentioned on a maximum of 5,000 square metres, the same provisions as already in the spatial implementing acts. I drew it on my hands yesterday, and they made it a little better for me today, what does that mean? Take this pink color as if it's orange, you know it from spatial plans. So now in the existing act this matter looks like – an existing facility. Green paint we know what it is, a restraining order. It is a plot of the same owner, it is a plot where this green bar does not mean any quality agricultural land, but it means some vegetable, which is marked in the spatial act as K1. And this investor wants to build an object on the existing one. He's got an order, he wants to increase production and, of course, he can't cut it without changing the act to this green part. Without an amendment to the UN, which you know lasts for two, three, five, seven years, I was told yesterday by some, or a call was heard on the committee. In short, we want to enable investors who have real needs to be able to carry out their activities smoothly in such cases. We do not want to allow any speculative intentions and interventions with this change. This is the purpose of a three-step assessment both at the level of the municipal council, an assessment by the public to be expressed in this case, and this is intended to be assessed through two ministries and, last but not least, a supervisory function of the National Assembly, which was adopted yesterday in the context of the consideration of this law, so that we are obliged to report on what is going on in this area on an ongoing basis. I must say that I will personally prevent any abuse or speculation intended through this article, but I want to enable all those who are now hampered so that they can carry out their activities within a reasonable time. I invite you to support this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u60	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, again. Nice greetings to all present! The Infrastructure and Space Committee shall be held at its 11th emergency meeting, on 16. 7. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly was addressed as a working body by the Government, proposing that the proposal for a law be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The National Assembly is at its fifth regular session, 9. 7. At the request of Positive Slovenia, he again decided on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly and decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made specific comments to Articles 5, 7, 15, 26, 29, 30 and 31. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained the opinion and stressed that most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. Mr Zvone Černač, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. He pointed out that the basic objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act is to address problems which, due to some inadequate provisions of the applicable law, in practice arise in the preparation of municipal spatial plans. This would enable them to prepare, modify and supplement them as quickly as possible and to prepare, modify and supplement other spatial acts to ensure that individual municipalities provide appropriate legal bases for the implementation of their development projects and for increased investment. The purpose of the law is also to improve the content of spatial planning. The new law provides for the rationalisation of the preparation procedures and the modification and complementarity of spatial plans and related system-specific solutions to assist municipalities in the preparation of general spatial acts in the municipality. The Law also introduces some new content sets, in particular at the level of the State intended to be applied at municipal level, and amendments to the system of relations and content between municipal spatial acts are proposed. The opinion of the Council of State was delivered by Councillor Jernej Verbič. He stressed that the Commission was in favour of the bill. The report of the interested working body, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, was presented by the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Zvonko Lah. He stressed that the Committee had not adopted its amendment but had adopted an opinion proposing to the home working body to examine the proposals received by the expert institutions for amendments relating to spatial planning. In the debate in which some representatives of professional associations and associations participated, it was pointed out that changes in the area of building and regulating premises were necessary, but some concerns were expressed, particularly due to the urgency of amending legislation. In the discussion, the Committee gave the highest priority to the provision of Article 29 of the draft law, which allows the municipality to allow for a smaller extension of the area of building land, as determined by the applicable spatial planning acts of the municipality, at the time of the adoption of the municipal spatial plan. This would enable the construction of individual facilities which represent a functional rounding of existing spatial arrangements. This is an exceptional and temporary arrangement applicable for a given period, which is up to 1. 1. 2015, which means that such enlargements will not be repeated. The fuse shall also be a 15-day period within which the conformity of the decision of the municipal council with the applicable arrangements will be checked. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has identified itself to the amendments tabled. Following the consideration of the amendments, the Committee also adopted the following conclusion: "The Infrastructure and Space Committee calls on the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to keep a record of the enlargements set out in Article 29 of the proposed Law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act, including the indication of the investor and to report thereon within 6 months." In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The implementation of construction legislation, in particular the placement of buildings into space, is long and cost-effective in most countries, so many companies abandon their idea of investment. And Slovenia is no exception. Such obstacles may be more disturbing for both domestic and foreign investors than tax rules. Practice shows that difficulties in obtaining consensus and time delay occur mainly in the preparation and adoption of spatial acts and in obtaining environmental permits and consents. Operators of space regulation often do not adhere to certain deadlines for issuing guidelines and opinions. Such a process falls apart into a series of partial procedures in which individual co-legislators who do not always have the required criteria for decision-making occur, and there are also different practices and inconsistencies in the operation of the operators. All of this affects the preparation of municipal spatial plans, which take place extremely slowly, since almost five years after the entry into force of the law, less than 20 % of all Slovene municipalities adopted their OPN. Municipal spatial plans of the municipality are urgently needed for the implementation of their development projects and for greater investments in their area, which will bring new jobs and more development. The proposed solutions brought by the novels go in the direction of rationalising the preparation procedures, as well as later amending and supplementing the municipal spatial plans. Thus, the compulsory acquisition of specific guidelines becomes optional, the acquisition of the first opinion of state-owned space regulators is postponed to an early stage, in the preparation of draft OPNs. Thus, at the first opening of the proposal of the spatial plan, the public concerned will also be informed of the opinion of the state-owned operators of space regulation, which means that the act as it unfolds will be more likely to be adopted in the end. The coordination of the UNJO at the ministry responsible for space shall also be determined prior to its adoption. In addition, a short procedure for the preparation of the municipal spatial plan and the municipal detailed spatial plan is in place. As an exception and a time-limited option, smaller expansions of building sites are also possible for the purpose of building a separate building, which represents a functional rounding of the existing building. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that these solutions lead to the unification and rationalisation of the regulation of space, thereby increasing legal and investment security and that we will therefore support the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u65	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The first of the two laws to accelerate long-term spatial placement procedures at both local, regional and national levels is the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act, which aims at faster preparation and modification of municipal spatial plans and other spatial acts that provide legal basis for the implementation of development projects, as well as increasing local investment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are fully aware that more and more concrete measures are needed in the area of spatial planning than the proposed amendment to the law, as this area needs to start to be regulated in basics and build from there to establish a completely new spatial planning system that will allow for long-term spatial development of Slovenia. We're in a situation where action is needed. Highly volatile words have been sufficient in recent years. Even in 2009, when we adopted the current amendment to the Spatial Planning Act, we assessed that the proposed solutions would help to speed up the procedures for the preparation of the UNO, but that there was no significant change in the practice of the case and the expected effects were not. Even in the case of the proposed novel, it is not expected that things will change overnight, since the biggest problem is the long-term procedures, in addition to this legislation, the humane sub-nutrition of state space managers and the overly bureaucratic thinking of individual officials who keep an eye on these procedures. However, the proposed amendment is an important step in the opinion of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party to simplify and shorten procedures, which is mainly reflected in the establishment of general and specific guidelines for state-owned landowners and the implementation of the State Spatial Order. Thus, the general guidelines to be drawn up by all state-owned space operators will be issued in advance and will serve as a basis for the preparation of the UNJP. They will be issued for each territorially completed area and not for each municipality in particular, as is now the case. This will significantly simplify and reduce procedures before the start of the UNSC preparation, and this will also help to improve the quality of space regulation. With the re-establishment of the State Spatial Order, a more uniform approach to the management of space is ensured to relieve municipalities in defining the substantive part of the preparation of the OPN as well as the administrative units responsible for the issue of building permits. The latter will be able to apply the rules of the State Spatial Plan directly. In addition, the changes relate to the implementation of the short process of amendments and the completion of the UNSC, and the critical weighting of initiatives to change land use in the UNSC preparation process is also being applied, which means that only those initiatives that will stop this weighing will be included in the next UNSC preparation process. While we support the vast majority of the proposed novelties in the Slovenian People's Party Group, the only problem can be seen in the proposed article 29 of the law, which gives municipalities that have not yet adopted the possibility of a smaller expansion of the area of construction land without amending the OPN. In our view and also in the opinion of the professional associations, this is a step away from regulating the whole system. On the other hand, we are aware that there are concrete examples of investors who, due to the slow process of adopting the UNP for years, have been waiting for the expansion of their activities and the subsequent creation of new jobs and cannot do so. Despite these concerns, we will support the proposed amendment of the Spatial Planning Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as we believe it deals with the most pressing problems in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u67	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. We will be happy to support any proposal that removes administrative obstacles in our parliamentary group. This proposal also removes such obstacles from the new applicable Spatial Planning Act. Among other things, this provides for the rationalisation of the procedures for preparing and modifying and supplementing spatial plans and the related system-specific solutions that will help municipalities prepare general spatial acts of the municipality and place concrete ones for the municipality of more developmental interventions and spatial solutions in a space with more detailed spatial acts. The fact is that procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial plans – even from my own experience – have been running for more than five years in the local community and it is incomprehensible for ordinary people, citizens, citizens to keep things running for so long and not allow for the development of both local communities and the countries that municipalities urgently need to rationalise their development projects – are taking place too slowly. It is this longevity that hampers the rapid development of municipalities and, consequently, the development of the country. That is why this amendment of the law, as has already been said, brings about a rationalisation of procedures, which we welcome in the DeSUS Group, and we hope that the novel will truly achieve its purpose. As I have already said, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Let me remind you that we have entered into a coalition agreement and committed ourselves to simplify the spatial planning of municipalities and to remove the administrative obstacles and spasms that have arisen in putting facilities into space. With the amendment of the Law on Spatial Planning, we are following precisely these objectives. The main objective of the bill is to address problems in the procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial plans, which are in practice due to inadequate existing legislation. By amending the law, we want to make it possible to prepare, amend and supplement municipal spatial acts as quickly as possible, to increase the flexibility of the spatial planning system and to provide an opportunity for the legitimate resolution of situations that have been resolved by the municipalities so far for a long time or at the borders of legality. As a result, individual municipalities will be able to provide appropriate legal bases for the implementation of their development projects and for greater investment. There is also a new instrument for assessing initiatives to change land use, which will relieve municipalities of further procedures and give citizens a fair response to the appropriateness of their initiative. The welcome changes that will facilitate the construction of potential investors can also include smaller expansions of building areas for industrial, manufacturing and tourism facilities and the construction of self-sustainment facilities in areas that are not yet communally equipped. In its programme, New Slovenia has committed itself to promoting a reasonable simplification of administrative procedures and de-de-barcation. In the light of the changes introduced by the above-mentioned amendment to the law, we can say that we are going along the path of achieving this goal, so the Members of New Slovenia will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u71	Nice greetings to all present! We will support the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I believe that all of us sitting in this national assembly at a pre-election time have talked about the need to simplify the procedures in this area, the need to make changes in this sense, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, and I think that these laws that we have today following an urgent procedure, are meant for this. Even in the debates we have held on the Committees so far, it has not been observed that there is a fundamental opposition to this legislation being amended, most of the comments have been on urgent procedures in the event of amendments to this legislation. However, if we ask ourselves, and if we consider that, in previous mandates, we have amended all this legislation in regular procedures and that this has taken place in some cases after a year and a half, you will probably all agree that, given our pre-election security, we do not have a year and a half to work on these changes. I think that the ministry has also taken into account in these amendments the comments coming from local communities, from administrative units and from all entities that actually apply this legislation. The large debate that took place on Article 29 also on the Committee, where we have somehow succeeded all those who have somehow questioned the appropriateness of this Article to believe that they have also withdrawn their amendment proposal, suggests that there will be no difficulty in adopting this law, which will allow for the actual reduction of these procedures, which some municipalities have been conducting since 2007 and 2008, when this legislation was adopted. I believe that everyone represents an investor who has received a promise from local communities, mayors, municipal councils that a matter will be settled within a year, two, has embarked on a bid – both state and European, but now cannot actually build this facility, despite the fact that the municipal council and all the interested public have placed it in a strategic document that is not yet in force. Therefore, this Article 29 is also needed to solve some cases in Slovenia, probably not enough, but they are important for new jobs and for some things to move from a dead point. We absolutely support this Law on Spatial Planning and the other two laws, which promote procedures in this area of putting facilities into space and reducing procedures. There will probably be a lot of work to be done in this area, and I believe that the Minister is on the right track, that with the new laws that the Ministry will draw up in the autumn time, we will further improve this legislation and thus allow the development potential in Slovenia to actually be placed and developed, as is the wish of all of us who are sitting in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u73	Once again a nice greeting, Mr. Minister and Madam Vice-President! Hittites, emergency procedures. By 14 this month, the municipalities, as an interested public, had the opportunity to submit comments. It was Saturday. It was Sunday 15th, 16th on the committee we discussed changes to the law and today in the National Assembly we are considering the law. In this matter, we can support most of the articles that are not large. Perhaps even Article 29 is not so problematic if we had an analysis of what is happening in this article 29, what are the effects, what will happen to us, what mistakes can happen to us, what is really happening back there. This is also, of course, an option, which I have talked about in the previous law about the possibility of legalisation of black buildings, which can also appear here for the legalisation of black buildings, which in itself may not even be so problematic if these black constructions were not black construction. Now look! Article 29 states that not only does it interfere with agricultural land, which may be problematic, but I also agree that agricultural land and agricultural land are agricultural land, but this means that municipalities may exceptionally allow for a smaller extension of the area of building land by the decision of the municipality by 1 January 2015. This expansion can then be 5,000 square metres without having any special judgement here, then we give to the ministries, and thus we can make an irreparable impact on the land itself, because the land can be otherwise protected. For all this, it would be appropriate to check the comments which are legal, legitimate and even well-intentioned. This is why we believe that Article 29 should be deleted. In particular, because Mr Minister predicts, Mr Krivec also said that in the beginning of the following year we will also reshape this law and re-examine it and adopt it. In fact, it is necessary to do so, but in the meantime everything that is happening in the building law and in particular what is happening in this law will happen. Since the adoption of this law can have major environmental consequences, both spatial and environmental, and there are no such assessments, we propose the adoption of this amendment, but if not, we will oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. We have an amendment to the 29th Article of the Group of Social Democrats. I am putting this article and this amendment to the debate. I'm asking you to report to the debate. We have three applicants for discussion. The first is Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u75	To delete Article 29, I have said my explanation in some way, so I propose that we delete this article and then the law can go into further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u77	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister and others present in this beautiful hall! The Committee on Agriculture, as the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee earlier said, spoke as an interested working body about this Article, so I am talking about Article 29. The debate was very tumultuous. Since there is no other way, let me tell you, in fact, the main concerns about why such an article as this is unacceptable. First of all, Mr Minister, he said so well earlier that the intervention does not constitute an intervention on a quality agricultural land, it means on vegetables. This, Mr Minister, was also defined in the first version of the law as a credit rating of up to 40 credit points. With your wonderful coalition, which operates in this National Assembly as a roller coaster of the greatest weight, power and speed, you have even overrun it, so you have removed the only serious limit to prevent any interference with the best agricultural land that is almost gone in Slovenia. And the only serious restriction in this law in this article 29 has been deleted, you probably meant when you said it does not mean quality agricultural land, although these are also quality agricultural land and this is deleted. Allow me to mention to you the views of the three institutions that I expect you to respect. The Commission's representative for the prevention of corruption, which generally opposes the high risk of corruption in such actions, said very well that the Commission also pointed out that the very size of the area already inscribed in that provision should not exceed 30% of the existing building area or a maximum of 5,000 square areas, indicating that it is not a very limited and small intervention into space. What is particularly interesting has also been reported by the representative of the Ombudsman and has said that the envisaged solution whereby the municipal spatial plan will no longer have to be coordinated at the competent ministry is no longer appropriate. It is also not an appropriate solution for changing the use of land without prior modification of the municipal spatial plan. She also expressed the belief that the proposed novel gives the municipalities and the municipal councils very much jurisdiction, which certainly gives them potential for abuse. The representative of the Partnership Responsible for the space to remind you of honourable Members and Members, this is a non-governmental organisation which brings together Slovenian experts in the field of spatial regulation, not only professors whom you do not like so much, but also those who work on the ground, has introductoryly stressed that their association strongly opposes the adoption of the amendment of the law under an urgent procedure which is not justified by anything, but has only prevented the professional public from actively participating in the drafting of the text of the bill and has also agreed with the Commission's opinion to prevent corruption, that the proposed provision of Article 29 of the Law opens up wide opportunities for corruption. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members, you must know that we, too, support the purpose and wish expressed here clearly that administrative procedures, which are too complicated in Slovenia, are too much in the hands of officials, administrators, to change. But you were swinging in the other direction. You have been swinging in this direction, which is so famous in the neighbouring country, which is called Italy, which has caused uncontrolled interventions into the space, which also appears in every earthquake that occurs there. Houses break down like they're made of paper or something. This law also shows that you did not understand the position of the OECD representative, who is in your government premises, and this representative is not a third-level official, but was the Director-General of the Environment Directorate at the OECD, who was very clear to all of us, not just you, teaching how to protect natural resources. You are working completely and completely contrary to what you have been taught from an institution you occasionally refer to in government premises. This is why we think and suggest to you that our proposal that this harmful article, a truly harmful article that allows and exists a danger, is a high inequality, which also the anti-corruption commission has made clear, corrupt acts in this country, that this article is deleted and that you may also show what is always public and you like to say that sometimes even the voice of the opposition means something to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Now I wonder if we were sitting on the same committee yesterday with some colleagues who are speaking differently today. Yesterday, in the debate on the working body, we explained all things and the SD colleagues withdrew this amendment because they understood the story we want to talk about here. And I don't understand a predecessor who talks about corruption, and I don't know what it is. I would like to know whether the municipal council does not also accept the UN, a more detailed spatial plan, that the entire document can be adopted by a municipal council but cannot accept a minor shift from the same municipal council. If anyone can explain to me how corruption is greater in a small part than in the part where he accepts the entire spatial document under the jurisdiction of the congregation and the congregation. I hope we're aware of that. And in this case, Article 29 is only a small part where we resolve the situation that I explained earlier. Certain congregations have been in the process for several years. In the proceedings, they have also been through public debates, through the initial opinions of the co-legislators there have been certain extensions even in the case of individual economic operators or others that we are solving with this Article, so these areas have already been placed in their strategic document or the UN, as we call it, and this has already been confirmed in the municipal council at the first stage, but have not been confirmed in the subsequent stages and the legal validity of this document has not been reached. This means that an investor must now wait for the state, the ministry and the various constituencies to settle this. In this case, we save, neither the municipal council nor the co-conspirators, even on your proposal, an additional protector has been installed, and two, first and foremost, that two ministries, the Ministry of Environment and Space, or the current Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, give an opinion within 15 days on this proposal by the municipal council and also the Ministry of Space. It is said that there are two additional fuses in such cases of enlargement. Further, due to clarity, we have withdrawn these 30% during the debate on the committee, which can indeed be disputed for some and we have kept only up to 5,000 square feet. These are not such large increases in certain cases. And I'm really surprised that someone is talking about this being corrupt, in case the municipal council is taking the whole plan, but that's okay. I don't know if anyone could explain that to me. I don't know how many cases in Slovenia. However, we know of some cases where investors are actually waiting, they have acquired certain funds both from the European Union and from intra-country tenders, but they cannot place a small amount of income next to their trade workshop, where they would place machines. It's precisely because of these screws that we have in our spatial plans. Whoever was involved, whether he was a mayor or a saint or a mayor, knows exactly what these documents mean. And I'm really wondering who's moving in here right now. On the other hand, the municipal council adopts a municipal spatial plan and is eventually implemented by an administrative unit which issues a building permit. But in case he has doubts, it's not up to the administrative unit. The administrative unit shall request an opinion from the municipality on a delicate situation. So who's in charge? It's a community. You would now like to take away this responsibility and the responsibility that the local community has. And it's about extraordinary cases, once again. And the guards are clearly written in these indents within Article 29. That's what you've been alerting yourself to, and he's further refined this 29th article so that he has all the security guards and no one would doubt it. On your initiative, too, the Ministry has been given to report and that the public is monitoring where an exception will be granted. So I don't know why you're re- tabled an amendment that you withdrew yesterday after a joint debate and we didn't finally decide on it. And all of these paragraphs give answers to all of the things you have just mentioned in this debate. And it's not about corruption. Otherwise, if you are talking about corruption within the municipal councils, the municipal councils should be abolished and they do not have jurisdiction over the basic document. I hope that we do not go so low that we take away the rights of the municipal councils. All the security guards operating in here are sufficient reason to allow such an exception and allow those who are actually waiting for years and years to obtain a building permit to allow them, even at the final stage through an exception which we bring into this law, to also make possible in this way. The key guardian of the municipality as well as the ministry is the adoption of general spatial plans. And such exceptions, which must go through some procedure, do not allow for some unplanned and some sort of grading in this case. As for this credit rating class for quality and non-quality land, we know that this is actual data from 1970 to 1980 and that certain land is highly valued by credit quality and does not really represent such quality land. Imagine one farm that has 50 hectares, someone would like to expand their destination, barn, make some silo on their land and at 50 hectares should not additionally build 200 sqm next to an object because there is a screw and is protected at this moment. I don't know how you're going to explain this to those who are now waiting for certain documents to be issued. And once again, all the guards are in the municipal councils. If we trust them in adopting the whole plan, we will also trust them in a minor change, in both ministries and in the process. In fact, this intended construction must already be in the documents already under discussion on the municipal councils in the initial documents. Therefore, it also states in the fourth indent that this must not be inconsistent with the strategy, contrary to strategic direction. This means that it is already in a document that is being adopted, which is in the reception phase of the municipal council and in the procedure. We would like to allow these people to reach their construction site and their building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Even the minister took the floor. Here you go, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. If we had some normal spatial legislation, then surely this article would not be necessary. But we don't have it. I hope that we will get it in the way I announced yesterday on the Committee that by the end of the year we will be testing, adopting and implementing it through public debate in the first half of the following year. A complete overhaul is needed. I am therefore pleased that this process, which has now run relatively fast, has nevertheless been received by both the expert and the political and other public, and a large number of these comments are going in this direction that this legislation needs to be completely recast. I am pleased because two or three months ago I heard voices from these same circles about the fact that it is not necessary for us to have good legislation, just to implement it in the right way. We have very restrictive legislation in this area, extremely protective and protective, and please tell me whether we have managed to protect agricultural land in recent years under this legislation. Was it not precisely under this legislation that the greatest changes in the destination of the largest complexes, the largest even here within the Municipality of Ljubljana, were allowed? Whole hectares have been changed for the purpose of building, and this is an extremely restrictive legislation. Isn't there something wrong with that? And now that we are talking about blocking those who cannot make their investments in some way, it is necessary to prevent them from doing at least something, but this protective and corrupt moment is immediately at the forefront. We're doing the opposite. We're putting out the corruption mechanisms. With a complete overhaul, we want to eliminate them to the end and with a complete overhaul that will determine who, within what time limits, gets permission and why they cannot get it. Now it is so impossible to obtain any permission in some context, unless a study is drawn, it is justified, etc. This study costs a few tens, in some cases a few hundred thousand euros, and then anything is possible. Then anything is possible, and at the same restrictive times. Why, in these cases, we do not listen to the words of the anti-corruption commission about the events that are taking place in this area. Why we did not listen to these words in the millions of euros that went towards project revisions, building permits at infrastructure interventions that do not need any revision, where it is hundreds of thousands of euros, that some documentation had to be produced by a designer who has a license entered into the register to be further revised. I'm asking you if the surgeon has a resident behind him to revise his operation. Is he responsible for doing the job in the right way? And if he doesn't answer, if he hasn't done his job professionally. Something similar must apply in this area. It's like that all over the world. The one who is educated who has an architectural license for this part and who does not know any other engineering room, stamps, stamps, must be responsible for this part and also responsible, irrespective of the 10 audits that may later take place. But, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, these amounts have gone into millions of euros from the state mangers and from the state budget, and they are individual procedures for years and years, because some revision of an infrastructure project called the railway takes a year to revise whether some are well-designed or not. And there's something like that here about ratings 40 and so on. Imagine, gentlemen, that this is a farm. I was talking about a production facility earlier, but now imagine that this sketch is a farm, which is 60, 50, 100 hectares. And imagine this farmer who now has this part drawn in his plan, where he can develop, and this part right here where he can't. To him, the configuration, the needs and everything else dictate that this smaller part also enters K1 with the best ratings. But it's a thousand-meter stretch on 500 thousand square meters. Are we going to stop him from doing this? Of course we're blocking it. Under the current legislation, we are obstructing it, if it goes only 1 meter into this green belt, it must not do anything. And these cases are quite a few. And that's not right and it's not anywhere, not in Europe, not in the world. If someone on his earth wants to do something and does not interfere and does not burden the essential production that is happening there, he must be allowed to do these things. Normal spatial legislation should also allow this without major debates and without specific debates. Normal spatial legislation should provide that new interventions may take place within the framework of a farm, a complex, within the framework of the facilities that are taking place there, regardless of what color is drawn in a plan somewhere, up to a certain percentage. Of course, the entire land must not be built by this farmer now, but God forbid, to make a tourist village, within the framework of an activity, a permissive activity, to complement this activity. For example, imagine that this is now a farmer, a little more advanced, and here it has a building, and I would like to make another economic building, and on top of that, God forbid, apartments so that tourists can also sleep, and not say anything more blasphemous, but another swimming pool. Everywhere we go, we know that these things work normally and they happen in a normal way. In this case, the spatial legislation that we currently have in force means that if it falls into such a situation, the UN needs to be amended. That means 5 to 7 years, or at best, if we're really going to make a change, I'm going to count in the year to two. But it's still two years. I think that even when we make these changes, we must write them in such a way that in such a case this activity must not be made difficult or limited. Or when it comes to someone who has production. And what does Article 29 say? Article 29 states that, exceptionally, the municipality may allow for a smaller expansion of the area of building land due to the construction of individual buildings which constitute a functional rounding of the existing building. Functional rounding of the existing building – there is a certain addition to something already built on building plots, where the activities of agricultural, productive, industrial, tourist and sports activities are concerned, and that conditions are met for the expansion of this area to be without prejudice to the protection, protected, degraded, threatened and other areas where, on the basis of the rules, a special legal regime is established that this area does not exceed 5 000, I would not prescribe any area, forgive, this is a matter of the municipality to regulate how much, in what way, it will allow it to comply with these parameters, but fine, 5 thousand square metres, that the expansion of the area does not run counter to the strategic direction of the municipality in order to clarify the two ministries, the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture and the Ministry of Space, and that these activities are carried out in accordance with the spatial implementation conditions applicable in this municipality. I think that this article is very clear, very transparent and will, unfortunately, make it easier in a few cases to do some of the things that prevent certain economic and other activities that, if you want, also mean the opening up of new jobs that are now closed due to this rigid space legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I've noticed more wishes for the debate, so I'll open up time for you to sign up. Please sign up for the debate. We've got four applications. The first one is mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u83	Thank you, Madam President. I mean, Minister, you're the last person to talk about farmers, because the other Members and Members know when you sent the marriage, you thought of everything, you just let the farmers go. And we've only had a debate on the committee, why did you let the farmers out of the farmer's house in this law that's the most tantamount to the farmers? And then on the basis of this debate on the committee came – I must say that not your party, but especially Virantova or Mrs Katarina Hočevar and the Slovenian People's Party or Mr Roman Žveglic, that the other coalition partners have managed to convince you that if anyone has an interest, it is a Slovenian farmer to expand. And that's good. I won't talk much anymore, but that's all I'd like to lay on your heart, as they say, please read nicely what the OECD representatives told you at the government palace not weeks ago. There were two ministers present, but you weren't, but it was only for the environment, and Minister Turk was, and Minister Bogovic was. They said that according to the OECD experience, any formal protection of natural resources, including agricultural land, has always proved to be the path to transport. That's what they said. And in Slovenia too, unfortunately, there have been hundreds of years of playing in the last 20 years. That's why they said that what is the new experience of the OECD and which way Europe is going now is that if you take advantage of the natural resource, you have to pay for it. They pointed out in their report that Slovenia has an exemplary example, this is the Agricultural Lands Act, which you have changed in the meantime, and this example has also been changed. What I have been saying about potential corruption is that, honourable Members, I have only read the opinion of the anti-corruption commission. And we probably have this committee until you've shut it down, even so that sometimes we can read something from Members and Members. Once again, it is likely that the level of democracy in this country will be even higher, but also so that Members and Members will take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. With regard to interference with agricultural land, I agree, there are some areas that have agricultural use status, but in nature they are not the best agricultural land. But this article doesn't say anything about it. This article now mentions that it can also be the best agricultural land, and it can reach this land without problems. However, I would like to point out the following. The expansion to 5,000 square meters isn't that small. Within 3,000 square metres of the large production hall, you can make quite serious programs, with 5,000 square meters you can also approach the residential neighborhood, which is not the most suitable for a machine to lead you right to the apartment house or to the facility and then you have problems. In this article, you only talk about taking into account spatial acts and the conditions applicable to the industrial zone. There are no other influences in this process. And this is a problem that the professional public is alerting to, this is a problem that we point out that the process that we accept is not appropriate because you cannot apply these exceptions everywhere. But if this refers only to industrial, productive, agricultural, tourism and sports activities – where are the residential activities? These are off-limits. But you can actually increase the impact of this expansion to 5,000 square meters on the neighborhood. And these are serious problems that need to be taken into account in space, analysed and then handled appropriately. It's no problem to make up your mind. I am sure that the municipal councils will accept this after the current tape, I do not doubt it at all, but the problem arises then in the environment, because this enlargement will be allowed without the cooperation of the professional and other interested public, which will tangemise it. You don't care about that, but normally in these procedures it should be that it is, too. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. If we or you, those of you who were in power, were always so concerned about the headache of preserving agricultural land, then today we would not have a highway in the middle of Savina Valley, but in the slopes, and not much else, as it was done if we did not dictate the individual lobby. Even part of the highway should not be on viaducts like today, because of course it cost and because it means maintenance and so on. However, I agree that taking care of agricultural land, on the one hand, on the other hand, what was done at least the last two mandates with the spatial plans of the municipalities was a great deal of pork, because they simply could not get through. I know the only congregation in this country that has adopted a spatial plan before the minister signed it. She accepted it on Friday and signed it on Monday. And what happened? Nothing. Nothing happened. But I'm not just gonna be critical about it. I'm critical of this amendment, too. I am critical because I don't understand why it should apply until 2015, but I don't understand why I should have the maximum limit so much, it's almost one football field, 110 x 60, and outside of building something like this. What do you want to do about it? For individual industrial, production, agricultural, tourist facilities, I agree if we write along with agricultural tourist facilities that we may not be able to give a chance to really some of the speculations that my colleague, Židan, has been talking about. Here it would suggest changing across my surface, a year, and perhaps restricting the tourist facilities to 20, 30 beds, something like that. But if that's how it stays, it's too general. Minister, that picture you showed, yes, I agree, meter, two. Let's move on to 20 meters, 20 meters wide and 20 feet deep, and it's 4 degrees, not 200 meters or 25 meters, not 250 meters. I don't agree with that anymore. 250 x 20 is 5,000 square meters, so half a hectare. Half a hectare isn't that small and it's not just an intervention for me here, where it's not a spatial plan that they're not, of course, it's another story. I believe that the Minister will come in autumn with legislation where spatial plans can be saved for at least the next six months, as far as the municipalities are concerned. That some would not be bureaucrats — 26 of them would give their consent, and 1 bureaucrat would not give it to you and that would not give you a spatial plan. It's all arranged, only 1 bureaucrat says no, it doesn't have a professional basis, but it does have another one, because maybe there wasn't a study at the right institution commissioned where any of his or her relatives are in there. I'm sorry. I am pleased that a lot of nonsense has already been abolished in this law and the revision of the audit of what is not necessary. This is really not necessary, and of course I agree with a lot of things. However, I warn you about this amendment. I expect that within the coalition we will trim it a little bit and repair it in the third reading. Otherwise, it would be a shame, of course, because it is a good change, but as I have already mentioned, it is some things that are too loose and too wide. However, I fear that if he were to be accepted, he would leave a legal system of corruption, which, of course, we are already accustomed to in this country. The former governments enjoyed it when they enacted systemic corruption. And that is why today the country is at the point where we are, so today we had a closed session and listened to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who also did not do his work in five years which he should have done. Where's the country? It's not about the country, it's about the people who live in this country. Some already live and some still live on high ground. I'm afraid some other tycoon with his accounts would come through this. That 15-day and municipal world, etc. Oh, yeah, a lot of things, but there's a lot to get for the money. We've had this experience all the time we've been here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Minister, you wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much, again. There will be no systematic corruption because of this 29th article of the law. I have to say I'll do anything to make sure it doesn't apply until 1. 1. 2015, but no later than 30 June next year. I hope that the new legislation can be enforced by 1. 7th next year. It is only an important area that will not be accepted overnight, but I think we are able to accept it by the end of this year and adopt it at the beginning of the next year and then implement it by the middle of the year. About the activities themselves. Mr Židan told me that there was no agricultural activity, Mr Weber told me why there was no housing, some said why there was no commercial activity, etc. Once again, if it were only up to my will, there would be no restrictions in this article, but that sovereignty would be left to local communities. I trust the local communities, I trust the mayors. Most economically, they must act towards their place, and they are also given the authority to create and adopt municipal plans. If they do not behave responsibly to space, they have the greatest negative effects in the environment itself. However, for such and other reasons, there are, of course, some restrictions here in law, but I think it is still the greatest responsibility on the municipal councils and then on the Ministry I cover and on the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, because we need to be on guard against any speculation that might arise in the implementation of this Article. And that's what we're gonna do. The exclusive purpose was to put an end to the blockades where they originate and to allow the development of those who are now in their development due to the long preparation of municipal spatial plans that take years and years, blocked and not know how and how to proceed. That was an exclusive purpose. However, I have made specific cases, Mr Židan, concerning agricultural activities. Why? Because I have experienced such a specific case in my practice. You will not believe, even because of the small matter I have mentioned here, because someone asphalted his own yard, which was, God forbid, there in one part of K1, and because he would need a building permit because the surface of the asphalt he laid in his own yard in the middle of the farm was too extensive, he could not get the European funds for this. Another concrete example of someone who has an industrial workshop and wants to expand it and because it is one metre along with this agricultural land, he has not been able to obtain a building permit for this expansion. These are concrete examples that I believe you are also meeting now that you are walking on the ground and where people warn you that some things are not appropriate and that they need to be properly regulated. With the recasting of legislation, I think we need to make this legislation in some ways softer, more flexible in the sense that it will allow for some normal development and, on the other hand, adequate protection in space. I said earlier that in such restrictive legislation as we have today, blocks are happening to us in the middle of individual villages. In this restrictive legislation, we have separate block settlements in villages. A single article could eliminate this, which would imply that the typology of the building must follow the existing building in such a settlement. And there should be no detailed provisions and no exceptions, and I do not know what else, which is now possible by such or other interpretation of very restrictive legislation. In this direction, our thinking will go further. I hope that this direction is correct and, of course, we will also be watching through control mechanisms that these anomalies will not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, we have somehow realized how little we have on agricultural land and in adopting the agricultural land law, everyone has jumped. Suddenly, we do not have enough agricultural land, and they must be protected as in India by holy cows. However, we did not need compensation for the change in agricultural land that was by 2002 and then abolished until last year, at a time when the highest quality agricultural land was built. In 10 years, they were to lose 19 thousand hectares of agricultural land, but about a quarter of them were built. But where are the rest of the agricultural land but no one asks. It just disappeared. And I'll tell you, if you think that the compensation for changing agricultural land is the only guardian of agricultural land, you're wrong. This construction trend has almost stopped and this trend will no longer exist, and this compensation tax will not be much. What the Minister had previously pointed out is such a case in the municipality where I was mayor when we adopted the UNV in contravention of the then ministry, which is why the law of 2009 was amended, because we used the silence of the body and gave the green "shrafuro" to prospective farms, who is familiar with spatial acts where it is possible to build agricultural buildings. And in my village, a barn is now being built for 70 cows, thanks to the municipal spatial plan, which was adopted in contravention of the then ministry or government. I can get you a picture of the facility and a cut from the O.N. This is also now intended to allow certain investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I see there are still desires after the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have a few more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u93	Thank you for saying that again. Little surprise to me is the debate of some of my colleagues, who I know have been mayors for years, so little to trust their municipal councils or generally local self-government. But to avoid these doubts of yours, one more fact. Such exceptional construction, as may be the case through Article 29, must be placed subsequently in the municipal spatial plan. In any event, it is said that the councils of the congregation are responsible for properly carrying out such an exception and that it is later confirmed in the plan. So I don't know where you see these fears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I think we've exhausted the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the incorporation of spatial regulations into the space under urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This is the last time around this spatial legislation. The Act on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space is a law that was passed in 2010. The purpose of this law was then to improve, accelerate the preparation of placement, the adoption of acts laying down the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space. The purpose was, therefore, good, clear, but unfortunately, at the time of the implementation of this law over the last two years, it has shown that progress has been made in some parts, but not in some. On this basis, we have also prepared some of the most urgent amendments to this law, which are aimed at further optimizing the list of operators of space regulation and increasing their responsibility, in order to increase the responsibility of the investor for the professionally efficient and timely preparation of state spatial plans. Then the changes that go towards dividing the guidelines into general and specific guidelines, as set out in the Spatial Planning Act, are to shorten or unify deadlines and to regulate situations where operators do not take into account the time limits laid down here too. Then the changes that are going towards rationalisation are both time-consuming and cost-effective in ordering professional bases. Thus, the basis is an ideal design if there is no environmental impact assessment process, otherwise an idea project. The amendments to the environmental report are then in the direction of simultaneous consideration by the environmental regulators and the public and the municipalities at the time of public decommissioning. Furthermore, there are changes in the direction of a consistent merger of spatial and investment documentation, changes in the direction of facilitating work for dissipating beneficiaries both at national and local level, and changes in the direction of complementing the role of local communities or municipalities. These are also envisaged to give appropriate project conditions together with the opinion. The novelty of this law is the first step in the overall reform of spatial and construction legislation. In the context of the comments submitted by both the professional and the political public and the local communities in the context of the consideration of the amendment of this Act, it was noted that a comprehensive revision of legislation in this area was necessary to address all problems arising from the imprudentness and complexity of the regulatory framework in the area of spatial planning and construction. As I have already mentioned, we will start this full recast this autumn with a public debate. We will try to recast the whole legislation in such a way that it is simple, transparent, usable and enforceable in 2013. However, some of the starting points and proposals that have been made in the context of this novel, which we have today on the table, will be tried to take the utmost account of and incorporate into future comprehensive legislative changes in this area. Let me also mention that, in this area, we are considering that we are going to be based on a normative regime, mainly on two laws, no more than we have been before. One law will determine the construction of buildings and the other law will provide for spatial planning and planning. Nevertheless, we have already introduced some activities in these days, weeks and months, whose common objective, and also the result that has now been shown in these last days, is that some procedures for the preparation of spatial plans at national level, according to the State Spatial Plans, have begun to take place more rapidly. Last time, by the way, a colleague covering this area told me that she was at a meeting and that someone said that now it looked like he was starting to gallop. Well, we are not there yet, but I hope that we will slowly come to the point where these procedures, which are very important in terms of development and also in terms of rational use of investment funds, can lead to this point by the time a process begins and will not be completed for more than two years or three years, not as we have seen it now when the acts were adopted in the 7-11-year period. I suggest you support this bill as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivec, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u97	Greetings to all present. The Committee on Infrastructure and Space is at its 11th emergency session. 7. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in the premises submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure was considered by the parent labour body. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Legislative and Legal Services and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups were tabled. In an additional explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Zvonko Černač, stressed that the proposed amendments and additions to the draft law were based on a reduction in the use of public funds, on solutions and rationalisation that allowed time savings, and on the elimination of certain uncertainties and inconsistencies that had occurred during the implementation of the applicable law and are being abolished by a proposal for a new law. In particular, he highlighted the following proposed solutions: optimisation of the list of space regulators, greater responsibility of the investor for the professionally efficient and timely preparation of the State Spatial Plan, consolidation of the investment project identification document and the initiative to avoid duplication and uncertainty, timely and strategic rationalisation in the procurement of the professional basis, precise identification of the task of the initiator, the manufacturer, the investor and the coordinator, increased responsibility and demand for more active participation of state-owned land managers in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, elimination of the uncertainty of the provisions and internal inconsistencies of the law relating to the provisions on the acquisition of real estate in the real estate process and their rights, elimination of the uncertainty about the role of the ministry in whose work area includes spatial regulation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, when presenting their opinion, stressed that the comments they had made to individual articles were duly taken into account in the main work in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The Vice-President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, stressed that the Commission had taken note of and supported the proposed solutions. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce stressed that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia supports the proposed solutions in the amendment of the law, the gold introduction of a greater responsibility of the investor for the professional, efficient and timely preparation of the State Spatial Plan, the provision for more active participation of State agents in space regulation and rationalisation in the procurement of professional grounds. In a short discussion, opposition members highlighted some concerns and questions regarding the proposed solutions in the amendment to the law, to which the Minister made further clarifications. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law as we assess the novelty as a necessity and solutions in it as positive for reducing the use of public funds and as a step towards rationalising procedures and eliminating certain uncertainties to facilitate the implementation of the law. Spatial planning and placement of facilities into space is very complex and very important because it affects the quality of life of people and leaves consequences in the environment, so it is very important that responsibilities and responsibility are precisely defined and defined. Intervention into space also involves trespassing on property, on the property of citizens, and therefore requires clean legal solutions and fair procedures, as we can quickly run into human rights and freedoms. In a democratic rule of law, it is necessary to make very mild decisions between what is more important, the public interest in development or the human right to private property and the inviolability of property. In our view, therefore, a positive introduction of the greater responsibility of the investor for the professional, efficient and, of course, timely preparation of the State Spatial Plan and the elimination of duplication in the preparation of the documentation. Much rationalisation in terms of the timing of procedures is certainly also a solution in Article 11 of the Law, which is the introduction of the possibility of simultaneous consideration of the environmental report by the environmental regulators and the public and the municipalities at the time of the public disclosure of the draft State Spatial Plan. We are convinced that this is the solution we would like at the level of the municipalities, as this is a waste of much valuable time in the investment fund competition. As I said in the introduction, members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by an amended law with amendments to the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. This time I welcome everyone in the hall. We have before us a proposal for a new law on the placing of spatial regulation of State importance in a space whose aim is to further optimise the already established placement process. The effects of the law will be seen in increasing the responsibility of the investor to draw up a State Spatial Plan, which is one of the key players. At the same time, the bill's proposal or proposed solutions are based first on a reduction in the use of public funds, on a solution and rationalisation that allows time savings and on the elimination of certain uncertainties and inconsistencies that have arisen during the implementation of the applicable law. The provisions of the internal non-conformity of the law relating to the provisions on the acquisition and rights of immovable property are deleted. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the provision which increases investor responsibility for the professionally efficient and timely preparation of the State Spatial Plan, which is one of the key actors, as it is also responsible for the timely and professional development of the necessary professional bases. We also believe that the proposed possibility of simultaneous consideration of the environmental report by the environmental regulators and the public and the municipalities at the time of the public disclosure of the draft State Spatial Plan will help to prepare the State Spatial Plan more quickly. As one of the most important solutions, however, we assess those with which responsibility is increased and the requirement for more active participation of state-owned land managers in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. Their work and competences do not end with the preparation of guidelines and opinions, but must actively cooperate throughout the process with the preparation of concrete solutions and proposals for action, which many are not aware of today. The operation shall be limited only to those space regulators whose cooperation is also laid down by other sectoral rules. In the DeSUS Group, on the basis of the above and also other solutions presented by the proposal for a novel, we estimate that, with the active participation of all those involved in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, we will further speed up procedures and reduce the use of public and other finances, so we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u103	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Vice President, all present! The proposed amendment to the law interferes with the area of State spatial planning and will, in particular, provide time and financial savings. However, certain uncertainties and inconsistencies that have arisen at the time of the implementation of the current law are also being addressed. For example, the submission of various documentation in analogue form is suspended, and a new spatial information system portal is being set up to ensure that documents are made available in digital format. In order to increase efficiency, the Government has also optimised the list of state-owned space regulators and given them greater responsibility in planning spatial plans. The positive effects of the changes are also expected to be seen in coordination between municipalities and ministries and other actors in spatial planning processes of national importance. Similar positive changes are yet another thing. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is essential that the legal provisions, which in practice do not bring about or cause more problems than the benefits, be removed and replaced as soon as possible with better solutions. Since this law is primarily about this type of change and the simplification of some bureaucratic procedures, we will support this law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u105	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, it is too slow to accept municipal spatial plans and to place spatial arrangements of state importance in the space of a large bar of development. Following the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning in 2007, municipalities were expected to adopt municipal spatial plans within two years, that is, until 2009, but until now, within five years, this did not do so even 20% of all municipalities. In 2009, when the former Government found that the adoption of these spatial acts was difficult, it adopted a series of measures on the functioning of the State authorities in order to facilitate the adoption of these spatial acts. At the end of 2009, the National Assembly also adopted an amendment to the law, which slightly accelerated the preparation of municipal spatial plans, but did not have any real results. Therefore, the current government has decided to scrutinise and shorten the procedure for the preparation and adoption of municipal spatial plans by amending the Spatial Planning Act. As a result of this, the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space is also necessary, as there would otherwise be a legal void. The new law introduces a simultaneous examination of the environmental report by elaborating the draft State Spatial Plan and thereby shortens the process. It also tackles complex and long-term land acquisition procedures and restrictions on property rights, which so far have been the biggest obstacle to the preparation of projects, including those with which cohesion funds are to be drawn up. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the amendment and addition of the Law on the Implementation of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u106	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u107	Hello! I will act very calmly so that the Minister will not yell at me, as he shouted at his colleague, our former Minister of Agriculture. The text of the New Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space has been published since 11. 6 to 14. Six, that's three days. The Government's explanation for the urgent procedure states, inter alia, that the introduction of the proposed solutions will simplify the procedures. The administrative barriers that have been observed in practice are therefore eliminated. Nice. But this document does not define or assess the effects on the economy. So, there's no need for an emergency procedure. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce wrote to the President of the Government on 11 June that it welcomes the intention to accelerate the removal of administrative burdens from bureaucratic administrative procedures, and particularly stresses that, by means of urgent, professionally unfounded changes in legislation, which are not agreed on in actual administrative procedures for placing in a space that is already extremely critical under the current legislation, it does much damage, much more than benefits. Look, there are already 16 extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and all those who have proposed today's meeting. Thus, these are not so urgent laws, there are no positions of Members and there will be no impact on the economic situation in the country as predicted, as there is clearly no interest in these laws. I read, every minute things change, even on the Internet, a minute or so ago, Minister Hojs says he's making a proposal to tie the pension to the number of children. Finally, the pensioners will also be shown fertility. That's what it says. You're making a fool out of this country, Erjavec says the Olympics Mir Cerar will have to check the situation and then determine his pension. Folks, why we're sitting here today, you four go to sea, enjoy and let's not have these people, electives and voters for what you think they are. All of this will be avenged. These laws are not necessarily necessary; they could be treated in accordance with procedures as usual. The minister announced a full assessment, and now we're making laws for two or three months. We in the Group of Social Democrats cannot support such actions. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. The last in the package of amendments to spatial legislation, which we are considering at this extraordinary meeting, is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space. The aim of this proposal is to further optimise the already established procedure for placing spatial arrangements of State importance in a space that would result in lower spending of public funds and eliminate certain uncertainties and inconsistencies that have arisen during the implementation of this law and will allow for the reduction of procedures. It is unacceptable to place infrastructure projects in a space of years, even decades, and even more difficult to manage irresponsibly the preparation and implementation of a particular state investment, which, as a rule, ends with a substantial reflection of the initial estimated value of the project. It is clear that such a way of spending public money uneconomically must be put to an end. The amendments to this bill will increase the investor's responsibility for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, increase the responsibility of state-owned space regulators, while rationalising the process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. The duplication of investment and spatial documentation and some other shortcomings of the current regime, which will accelerate the preparation of State spatial plans, are being addressed. The proposed amendments will therefore allow for a more open and transparent placement of state-of-the-art facilities into the premises and increase the investor's responsibility for the professional, efficient and timely preparation of the State Spatial Plan and for the economic use of public money, and we will therefore support this bill in the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we conclude this second reading. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote and will thus end this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LAW BY THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Minister Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u111	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Vice President! A brief explanation under the Environmental Protection Act. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, we are talking about an urgent procedure, contains some amendments and additions to the current law on environmental protection that will promote economic development and help reduce administrative barriers and administrative burdens. The proposed amendments will extend the validity of environmental permits for non- IPPC activities and installations from five to ten years. From the administrative records of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, there are now thousands of 143 such environmental permits issued under Articles 82 and 86 of the Environmental Protection Act. All these licences should be extended in the coming years, which means an exceptional administrative burden both for the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and for the holders of licences. The proposed law amends the arrangements for the remainder of the emission vouchers from the reserve for new installations under the national allocation plan for the 2008-2012 period, which will not be distributed by the end of 2012. The current regulation provided for these to be repealed and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on their availability on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the protection of the environment. The availability of emission vouchers includes their use to meet internationally accepted greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments, transmissions over the next period, cancellations or sales. The government will decide on the way in which the Kyoto Agreement and the EU comply with internationally accepted commitments to reduce greenhouse impact emissions. The proposed amendment will also make the public sector more efficient in the field of the implementation of mandatory municipal economic services in the field of municipal waste management, taking into account the possibility that part of municipal waste management will also be regulated within the framework of a free economic initiative, if this is not contrary to the requirements of environmental protection and human health. The proposal for a law was in accordance with the provisions of Article 34a of the current law in public treatment for 14 days, as it concerns minor legal changes. When preparing the final text of the law, the Ministry took the views of other ministries and government services into account as much as possible, including the public concerned with the proposed amendments. The opinions and proposals relating to other parts of the law will be examined and taken into account by the Ministry in the preparation of the proposal for legislative amendments to be prepared in autumn 2012 mainly for the purpose of transposing the requirements of the Directive on the System of Trade in Humanitarian Affairs and the Directive on Industrial Emissions and the requirements of the Commission in the context of infringement procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much for the presentation. The following presentation was made on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, the home working body. May I have the president of mags, please? A Jew to present the board's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u113	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection at its 10th urgent meeting on 16 July 2012. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of interested public and non-governmental organisations participated in the meeting of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the local communities. Until the expiry of the deadline, this is until 13 July 2012, none of the local communities forwarded their opinion to the National Assembly. The Committee adopted the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, presented at the meeting by its President. The Commission of the Council of State supports the law. In particular, he explained the Commission’s position to amend Article 149 of the current Environmental Protection Act. He said that they agreed with the proposed solution. The amendment to this Article makes it possible to include the collection and processing of certain types of municipal waste among the mandatory municipal economic services in the protection of the environment, allowing for the management of part of municipal waste in the context of a free economic initiative. In addition, he reiterated the position of the Commission at the time of its consideration of the report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia in 2009, so that the current system should be amended so that companies authorised to handle waste packaging would allocate part of the resources to operators of the economic public waste collection service to cover the costs of separate collection of waste packaging. The representative of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption drew attention to the very short time spent in the drafting and adoption of the bill, and to the fact that the adoption of economic recovery measures should not be at the expense of democratic dialogue between all stakeholders in the drafting and adoption process. The representative of the Ombudsman stressed the need to amend the Law on the Protection of the Environment, adding that she was not most convinced whether the changes envisaged in the draft law were even those most urgent, and whether they were those that would really help revive the economy. In view of the proposed solutions for the remainder of the emission vouchers from the reserve for new installations, it was asked whether such sales also follow other objectives such as environmental objectives, sustainable development objectives and the precautionary principle. The position of the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia was presented by its President. He said that they welcome the extension of environmental permits also for those non- IPPC activities and installations that do not cause more environmental pollution, but that all together with the extension from 5 to 10 years should strengthen control. However, surveillance could only be enhanced by the reorganisation of inspection services. They also support the change of arrangements in relation to the residues of emission vouchers from the reserve for new installations. The content of the individual articles and the amendment tabled were not discussed by the members of the Committee. The Committee defined itself to the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to Article 7, which eliminates and adopts certain nomological and editorial shortcomings raised by the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee also voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u114	Thank you so much for your introduction. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and Mr Franc Jurša shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and the co-workers! The new Environmental Protection Act extends the validity of environmental permits also for those activities and installations that are not part of the IPPC, comprehensive pollution prevention and control from 5 to 10 years and thus provides for the unification of the validity of those authorisations. The arrangements for the remainder of the emission vouchers in the reserve for new installations in the national allocation plan for the period 2008-2012 shall be amended. Their availability will be decided by the Government in the light of the fulfilment of internationally accepted commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Kyoto Agreement and the European Union. Part of the management of municipal waste will also be able to be regulated within the framework of a free economic initiative, if this is not contrary to the requirements of environmental protection and human health. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill, as it also represents one of the positive effects of reducing the burden of the state budget, as the proposed extension of the environmental permit will also reduce the number of administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u117	Hello again! Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Minister! In the New Slovenia Group, together with coalition partners, we are fulfilling the promises we have entered into in the coalition contract and have committed ourselves to implementing them in this mandate. The new Environmental Protection Act is one of the proposals that will encourage economic development and help reduce administrative barriers and burdens. In New Slovenia, we believe that the role of the country is expressed in setting such conditions so that protection of the environment and nature becomes a development opportunity for an individual and not an obstacle burden. The measures proposed, namely the extension of environmental permits for companies not polluting the environment of a larger scale, the possibility of unallocated allowances from the reserve for new installations selling on the market, thereby creating a budgetary revenue and more efficient regulation of municipal economic public environmental services, going in the right direction. In applying the proposed solutions, we also feel that it is very important for the congregations to support them. Because of these advantages, Members of New Slovenia will support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u119	Once again, a respected minister, a colleague and a colleague! The Law on environmental protection was adopted in 2004 and then, due to the transposition of the relevant directives of the European Union into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia for the same reason, was supplemented in 2006, 2008 and 2009. By amending and supplementing the law, the Government wishes to simplify the validity of environmental permits, to regulate more rationally mandatory public economic services for the protection of the environment and to enable the operation of a free economic initiative, where possible in accordance with the requirements of environmental protection and human health. The proposed law also aims to ensure that the State makes available, in a rational manner and in accordance with internationally accepted greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments, the residual emission vouchers from the national allocation plan reserve for the period 2008-2012. Following the law currently in force, the application for environmental consent must be accompanied by an ideal design, as the law and the administrative authority also require, although the investor had an idea project, which is of a higher rank, but still had to produce an ideal design. Now, the project, which is designed at a higher level, will be able to contribute to the application for consent. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Chairman of the mag committee. Dejan Židan will also present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u121	Dear Vice President, today you give me an unusually common word. Thank you very much. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support this law. We have agreed that in all the laws for which the Anti-Corruption Commission has taken the view that it is necessary for the proposals of the laws to be retained, put into public debate, set clear deadlines and prepare the substantive justifications for individual solutions, we will follow the opinion of the anti-corruption commission. Allow me to read something to you and ask you to follow me closely. There is no dispute that changes in legislation in the field of environmental regulation, space and agriculture in some parts are even necessary, as existing solutions are weak and it is clear that we must remove bureaucratic barriers. In doing so, it should be stressed that these changes must be conceived and, above all, adopted in a transparent manner, both in terms of cross-cutting coordination and in terms of facilitating public debate. The fact is that the preparation for the introduction of those laws and the envisaged procedure for the adoption of this provision have violated. Through its procedures, the Commission notes that the regulation of the environment and the space goes both to the state and to the local level in particular to a corruption-specific area in which many private interests and lobbying operate. At the same time, it is an environment and an area of concern where there is a strong public interest, as it is a matter of long-term issues related to the supply of clean drinking water, living space, processing land and the like. It is the duty of the State to manage and safeguard public interest by means of a way and approach to amending limited laws, this duty, in the opinion of the Commission, has been fulfilled. At the same time, such behaviour is also not in the spirit of the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which requires all public authorities and public function holders to promote transparency, the rule of law and to address the risks of conflicts of interest and corruption. At the same time, honourable Members and honourable ministers, allow me to ask you again. At the time of the inadvertent suspension of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia in this National Assembly, due to the wrong decision of the leadership of this National Assembly, followed by the coalition, it was suggested that the competent ministry would receive a similar council as the consultative body of this Ministry in amending the law. This is now not clear from this law, and this is another reason why we do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome by my side, too, Minister, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we support amendments to the Environmental Protection Act because we estimate that they are ready to promote the economy and that they represent less administrative obstacles for our companies. The basic solutions in the novel are three, primarily the validity of environmental permits for certain installations and installations from the previous five years being extended to ten. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, this means a thousand and 150 licences that would have expired and should be extended. Furthermore, arrangements and the possibility of having allowances from the reserve are being changed, which is also estimated by the competent ministry at EUR 430 000, which means that around EUR 2 million would be paid to the climate fund if sold out. The novelty provides the possibility of a systemic basis, a different arrangement of economic public services, namely, the collection of certain types of municipal waste will be excluded from the compulsory public service system and will be regulated under a free economic initiative. We welcome these changes and additions in the National Gazette, as they mean simplifying procedures for our citizens and businesses, so Members and Members of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u125	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We have yet another amendment to the law under the framework of measures to promote the economy and the administrative burden of state and local administration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that the validity of environmental permits will be extended from five to ten years, as this will timely and financially relieve businesses and municipalities and reduce delays in the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We also support the amendment of the regime on the admissibility of the sale of the balance of emission vouchers from the reserve for new installations under the national allocation plan for emission vouchers from 2008 to 2012. The novelty also introduces a system whereby waste packaging can be handled in such a way that municipal companies can also provide part of waste packaging management services at European or municipal facilities, which we support, of course. In fact, utilities have a lot of costs by collecting this kind of waste that they usually transfer to the price of services. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, with the fact that major changes and additions to the Environmental Protection Act are being prepared this year, which will also address the issue of environmental authorisation and the functioning of inspection services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on changes and additions to the water law by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the Minister to further explain the proposal. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u127	Hello again! The proposed amendments and additions to the Water Act fall within the framework of measures to promote the economy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012 and relate to the area of water. The proposed law deals with the most pressing issue in the field of water protection areas, simplifies the procedure for the allocation and transfer of water rights and regulates the way exceptions are applied to the achievement of environmental objectives in the case of public interest interventions in accordance with Water Directive 2000/60/EC. Most changes relate to procedures for the allocation of water rights. In order to improve the business environment, the obligation to obtain a water permit shall be laid down for certain types of water use for which a concession is to be obtained. Thus, the obligation to obtain a new water permit is laid down for the direct use of water for ports and docks, irrespective of whether it is built in the public or private interest, and also a water permit is granted for the cultivation of both marine and freshwater organisms and for the cultivation of these organisms in standing and running waters. Some types of water use for electricity production are also transferred from the concession to the water licences. The transfer of individual uses from concessions to water licences will result in the simplification of the implementation of the procedure, with the level of protection of water management objectives remaining the same. In view of the conditions under which water rights may be granted, they shall remain the same regardless of whether water rights are granted by water permit or concession. The new model removes an administrative obstacle by removing the water permit for the specific use of water when it is not the exercise of an activity issued to a natural person, to each owner of the supplied property, to transfer the water permit automatically by obtaining ownership rights under the law itself. This solves problems with changes in the ownership of the facility. Thus, a new water permit had to be obtained at the time of each exchange of the owner. The new possibility is also that a sub-legislative provision will define a type of use for which water rights will not have to be acquired, but will only have to be recorded. This is a case of species and quantities of water which do not actually affect the water regime and the water condition. This provision is also aimed at simplifying procedures towards the application of specific water use. The most pressing issues in the field of water protection areas relating to the non-payment of compensation for the loss of income from agricultural activities are addressed. The obligation to enter into contracts with time limits is now regulated at the legal level and a penalty for an offence has also been added if no contract on the part of the debtor has been concluded. The liability of the debtor is thus transferred from the civil to the administrative sphere. The novelty is also the definition of a dry restraint and the added legal basis for the recovery of damage in the event of a flood event in the dry hold area. There was also a lack of regulation of the procedure for applying exceptions to the achievement of environmental objectives in the case of infringements of public interest in accordance with Water Directive 2000/60/EC, which is now duly regulated by a new provision. The proposed supplement allows for the organisation of a part of the public service which includes the removal of surface water and surface water surface water levels and the prevention of pollution of water lands carried out at sea or the intervention in the event of sudden marine pollution by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs ensures maritime safety, maintains maritime signalling and has a number of vessels that can be shared with vessels with the concessionaire, who now operates a public service for the maintenance of water and coastal land, to be used effectively and rationally in the organisation of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs. This will make greater use of human resources and other capacities. There will also be a significant increase in the willingness to intervene in the event of sudden marine pollution or accidents at sea. However, in the field of water security supervision, account is taken of the fact that professional standards for water security controllers have been developed in the field of national professional qualifications and that there will no longer be a need for examinations within the Ministry responsible for the environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Minister Franco Bogovich. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. Chairman Mag. You again have the floor to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u129	Dear President, once again greeted by Members and Members, greeted by both ministers with co-workers! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, as a parent working body, considered the law at its 9th emergency meeting. Seven. 2012. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the professional and interested public participated, who also forwarded their written comments to the Committee. The President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption drew attention to procedural problems, in terms of the process of drafting and adopting the bill as well as in terms of limited time for public debate. Representatives of Agriculture and Economy Slovenia warned that two issues remained unresolved for the Chamber. First, it refers to monetary compensation for farming in the water protection area and the provision of substitute land, and secondly, land farming in coastal areas where the water protection regime is also prescribed. The representative of the Fisheries Union said that two key comments were expressed in the five amendments. The first concerns the difficulty of switching from concessions to hydropower licences with installed power of less than 10 megawatts and the second in the area of fishing families and water rights. They believe that no additional water rights are required for the implementation of fishing for which the fishing family has a concession. The representative of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development said that the Commission supports solutions simplifying the procedures for granting water rights. The representative of the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies proposed the adoption of an amendment providing that, exceptionally, a concession does not need to be obtained for water use if a water permit is obtained in accordance with Article 118 of the Act. The representative of the Ombudsman highlighted some concerns about the draft law, which are mainly related to the issue of ensuring control over the implementation of legal solutions. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, members of the opposition type committee expressed their indignation at the fact that the proposal for a law was being considered and adopted following an urgent procedure that was neither justified nor justified. They pointed to the exclusion of the public from the drafting of the law. They argued that the draft law facilitates the economic exploitation of waters and on the side track places other water uses, that the draft law provides very little for protecting public interest and that public water supply providers will have to pay for the loss of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas directly to the price of water. They also pointed out that the proposal for a law seriously interfered with the competence of local communities and that it abolished the Water Conference, which included a wide range of stakeholders. It has also been pointed out that the law aims to solve the problem of thousands of 600 hectares of land in water protection areas, but completely overlooks a much larger problem, namely 14,000 hectares of land, which are coastal and are not aligned with other European countries. The Coalition Members, however, pointed out above all the fact that we have been working so far in this area slowly, following regular procedures and following a path that was unfortunately wrong. They asked why no one cares how many applications for small hydro power plants have been submitted to the competent ministry in recent years, for locations where, for example, mills have already stood, and why no one cares how long these applications have been received by the Ministry and what responses investors are now receiving. In these times of crisis, unreasonable long-term procedures are being conducted and it is virtually impossible to obtain appropriate permits. They also highlighted the issue of compensation for farming in water protection areas, since the current practice essentially means that owners of such land are literally decommissioned. On the basis of the comments made by the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Enterprises in accordance with Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 12. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, amendments to the Fishing Union of Slovenia were submitted but were not accepted. In the course of the debate, the Committee also identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted all amendments of the coalition groups of Members and rejected the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! In New Slovenia, we are aware that in the field of water protection and other important environmental issues in the past we have achieved important results, while at the same time we have adopted complex administrative procedures that are often not coherent with the economic, social and environmental aspects. That is why we have already promised before the elections that we will strive to improve them and simplify them. The new Water Act, which falls within the framework of measures to promote the economy, brings exactly this – simplification and elimination of difficult and long-term and expensive procedures in many areas. People all over Slovenia are giving us support in these efforts, as this means eliminating pointless blockades for them. In addition to simplifying the process of granting a water permit for the use of drinking water itself, transferring certain types of water use from concessions to water licences and complying with European legislation in New Slovenia, we particularly welcome the more precise definition of the obligation to pay compensation in water protection areas. In the past, there have been repeated warnings by beneficiaries of compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas that the obligation to pay compensation has not been implemented by some debtors for very different reasons. In Novi Slovenija, we believe that it is right for those who lose income from agricultural activities in water protection areas where agricultural production is severely limited to receive fair compensation from the economic service provider. However, the debtor, who is unduly evaded to pay such compensation, should be effectively sanctioned. For all of this, the Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Water Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u133	Dear Minister, Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a novelty of the Water Act, which also falls within the framework of measures to promote the economy that we are now adopting. This will address the most pressing issues in the field of water protection areas, simplify the process of granting water rights and simplify the transfer of water rights and regulate the application of exemptions from environmental objectives in the event of public interest. Already in the coalition treaty, we have committed ourselves to representing the water of good, which is crucial for the health development of Slovenia. We have also committed ourselves to providing appropriate substitute agricultural land by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in cases of restrictions on farming in water protection areas, where possible, and otherwise with compensation. We have also committed ourselves to implementing flood safety programmes and to address the issue of water restraints. The news that we are dealing with is touching precisely these pressing problems that arise in practice in the field. In addition, it should be pointed out in particular that the principle of removal or reduction of administrative barriers has been taken into account. Thus, the law simplifies and accelerates procedures for the allocation of water rights to self-supply drinking water. The transfer of certain types of water use from concessions to water licences will be carried out with a view to improving the business environment by eliminating difficult and long-term and expensive concession procedures. Changes occur because in practice the concession award process has proved to be too late and presents a rather long and costly administrative burden for potential water users and also for the authority that grants it. Thus, a water permit shall be granted for the use of water for ports and docks, irrespective of whether it is built in the public or private interest. This water permit is also granted for any cultivation, whether it is the cultivation of marine or freshwater organisms or whether it is grown in existing or liquid waters. The concessions shall also exclude the types of water used for the production of electricity in a hydroelectric power plant with a power supply of less than 10 megawatts. Let me say that the SDS party does not support the SD amendment to this Article. In the SDS Group, we also support solutions aimed at clarifying the obligation to pay compensation in the field of water protection. Thus, the payment of refunds is envisaged for the loss of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas where, due to the water protection regimes, agricultural production is severely limited and the agricultural holdings to which this activity is the basis for survival are, therefore, in an unequal situation compared to non-agricultural holdings outside those areas. The beneficiary of these refunds is the one who actually processes the land, i.e. the tenant or the tenant of land who fulfils the measures of the water protection regime and has significantly deteriorated the conditions for income generation as a result of these measures. These compensations shall be paid by public service providers of drinking water on the basis of contracts with beneficiaries and not on the basis of provisions. In our opinion, these solutions will bring positive changes especially to all those who live or live by the waters, especially to all those who face different challenges every day in the construction of hydro power plants on the bottom of the Sava. This law brings positive solutions, so we will support it in the SDS party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act should by no means be dealt with by the urgent procedure and we did not expect to discuss this law for just 10 minutes or perhaps 15 if we consider the time for the Group of Members which we have to present our position. We would like to draw attention to the fact that water is the source of life and if we control water issues, then we are not afraid that we will have problems in any other area. The fact is, if you make a mistake in an area affected by water, it is proved that water has still punished these errors. These effects are not small but are usually destructive. The fact is, the Commission has also pointed out that the urgency of the procedure and the exclusion of the public, and in particular the exclusion of the professional public, has also warned the Commission about the prevention of corruption. And this is also one of the laws that will open the door to corruption and customerism. This is something that we must definitely fight against, because it has been proven to be the most harmful way to control the economy, and also the interests of the state and people. However, if we want to follow the interests of individuals, of course, customerism and corruption are also welcome. We are concerned that, by this law, we are also introducing systemic corruption in the field of water. All of this is under the pretext of reducing bureaucratic barriers, but in fact it is a matter of significantly less transparent decision on the allocation of water rights and we are also opening the door to systemic corruption here. The law allows uncritically and destroys a vast environment, lastingly and gravely, it will be able to interfere with the environment and space. Let me say that I am extremely respectful of water management facilities, and I am also coming from this area of expertise, but I am also aware of what such an object can do in the environment if we place it in space solely because of economic interests. It is totally unacceptable for us to grant water rights to hydropower plants with installed power up to 10 megawatts. This is a very large capacity, a very large intervention in the environment, and in this case it is also a fact that, regardless of the fact that it will destroy itself to a large extent and change the living situation in that environment, the municipalities will not receive a concessional levy on the exploitation of water resources. So it is also a grave intervention in the developmental possibilities of the municipalities. In the fact that this law has not been forwarded to the local communities, we are simply proving how inappropriate the way of dealing with this law is proposed by the Government and has also been adopted by the College by the leaders of the coalition groups. Not only is the environment being degraded, in order to undermine human security and to reduce the number of habitats, but the income of municipalities under concession tax, which is divided into countries and municipalities, of course, in the interest of capital. We have also proposed on the parent board which has considered this law that water fund funds are no longer used for the construction of water infrastructure built within energy facilities, either accumulation pools or regulation of eastern sections of watercourses to accumulating pools, because the fact is that with the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government will sell energy and will leave us unregulated rivers, municipalities without funds and impoverished people without adequate economic grounds to resolve the interests of the masses in our country. We're not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u137	Have a nice hello again. In the Civil Law on Water, we consider the changes to the Water Act to be appropriate in terms of simplifications that have proved to be a problem of administrative barriers in the past. The amendments concern five areas which are simplified by this amendment. First of all, the proposal for amendments seeks to address the issue of water protection areas and to simplify the procedures for the allocation of water rights and the transfer of water rights and to regulate the application of exemptions from the achievement of environmental objectives in the case of public interest. Procedures for the allocation of water rights for own drinking water supply shall be simplified. The transfer of certain types of water use from concessions to water licences will be carried out in order to improve the business environment by eliminating difficult and long-term and expensive concession procedures. In the field of water protection areas, the obligation to pay compensation, which has so far caused difficulties in practice, is defined and defined more precisely. This is both a restriction in terms of water pumping, it is said in terms of farming, as well as for newly envisaged interventions in the construction of dry restraints. In practice, inconsistent and complicated procedures in this area have led to delays and even discouragement from investing in water use. Even in the Law on Waters in the National Gazette, we see more benefits from any negative consequences that any change in legislation can have, even though it could be adopted on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u139	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The next in the package of measures to promote the economy is the amendment of the Water Act, the main purpose of which is to simplify procedures and remove administrative barriers. This simplifies the procedures for the allocation of water rights for own drinking water supply by automatically transferring the water permit to the owner of the supply facility, immediately after the acquisition of the ownership right. The next very important change is also the transfer of individual types of water use from concessions to water licences, as the process of obtaining water concessions is one of the major environmental problems. In this way, new water permits will be granted to all ports and docks for cultivation, and it is essential that concessions to water licences also transfer hydropower plants with installed power of less than 10 megawatts. We all know that hydroelectric concessions are largely lagging behind, so such a solution is certainly welcome. In addition, sanctions on the non-payment of compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas are tightened, as taxpayers will be more closely monitored and further sanctioned. The proposed amendments also define the possibility of allowable exceptions to the achievement of the prescribed environmental objectives in the field of water interference in the area of public interest. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the proposed solutions will adequately follow the objectives of the law, but we regret that the amendment to Article 65 on coastal land farming has not yet been included in the bill, as pointed out by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Nevertheless, we estimate that the proposed amendment to the Water Act is good and its solutions eliminate a number of headaches, so we will also unanimously support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u141	Once again, I welcome everyone, including Minister Žerjev. I forgot to say hello before. The proposed amendments to the Water Act aim to address the most pressing issues in the field of water protection areas, by simplifying the procedure for the granting of water rights and regulating the transfer of water rights, as well as exceptions to the environmental objectives so far in the case of public interest. Among other things, the procedures for the allocation of water rights for own drinking water supply will be simplified, certain types of water use from water concessions will be regulated with a view to eliminating difficult and long-term and expensive concession procedures. The amendment proposes that the specific use of water, particularly when it comes to the use of water for personal purposes, does not have a negative impact on the water regime. The competent authority shall permit its use by registration in the register, but if a water permit is required, the procedure shall continue in accordance with the arrangements already in force. In connection with the long-term concession procedure, the applicant decided that certain types of water use would no longer need to obtain water rights in the form of concessions, but would be sufficient to obtain water licences. A water permit would thus be granted for the use of water for ports and docks, built in the public or private interest, for any cultivation of marine or freshwater organisms or for cultivation in existing or liquid waters. The types of water used for the production of electricity in hydroelectric power plants with installed power of less than 10 megawatts shall also be excluded from the concessions. In the DeSUS Group, we support the solutions provided by the proposal for a law, in particular those with which water rights procedures are simplified, since the award process is too demanding and often makes it impossible for investors or makes it difficult to transfer water rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, we do have several amendments that have been tabled, so we are moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments that have been tabled. I'm opening the debate first. Article 12 and the amended amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening time for an application. Two panellists have been reported, mag. He's Jewish and Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go, mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u143	Now we're talking better. Say hello to everyone else again! Look, according to our assessment, this amendment shows that there is a risk of privatisation of natural resources, so this amendment has been tabled. It is very sad for us, instead of leaving this area as it is, of course, by reducing administrative burdens, it is better to regulate the area of coastal belts, which are ten times the problem for Slovenian farmers such as water protection areas of the first order. We also do not accept the position expressed on the Committee that this is such a very difficult area that it is necessary to have an extremely long time. It is a challenging area, but in any case it is a much less difficult area, such as the regulation of 10 billion valuable Slovenian assets, which you move from day to day and can also be written overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. If I understand correctly, Article 12, amendment. With regard to Article 12, I must admit that we were pleasantly surprised that at least the Fishing Union of Slovenia, in the short time when it was not actually possible for the professional public to be involved in the preparation of this law, however, identified itself as a matter of such importance as the placement of 10 megawatt hydropower plants in an area on the basis of a water permit. The fact is that the award of a concession for the construction of a large hydroelectric power plant, we are talking about a large hydropower plant, not small hydropower plants, is much more difficult, but also much more transparent and clears up some of the issues that need to be harmonised before you place the hydropower plant in space. One of the very concrete proposals in this amendment is that we are not really talking about a water permit being granted to build 10 megawatt hydropower plants, but to one megawatt. This would remain somewhat consistent with what we can understand about a little hydroelectric and less demanding intervention into space, while, of course, we also have significantly less damage to local communities, which will certainly have very major problems if they adapt their spatial capabilities to the hydroelectric power plant. At the same time, in the construction of each energy facility, each local community expects to be able to participate in the distribution of profits. The experience of the Minister in this field, in the field of energy, shows that local communities find it very difficult to give up taxes that they receive through concessions and because of the degraded environment – the nuclear power plant is only one of those without whom, I am sure, an area where local communities are eligible to receive part of the funds due to the degradation of this area are difficult to carry out their development tasks and are difficult to remain sufficiently interesting and competitive compared to others if these resources are not available. It is precisely by this decision that 10 megawatts are no longer to be paid for the concession fee that is seriously affected by the jurisdiction of the municipalities. This law, as I have already said at the time of the presentation of the position of the Group of Members, was not sent to the local communities for consideration, which I believe is also one of the grave errors of the President of the National Assembly, for it is his responsibility to give the law to the local communities if it is very specific to interfere with the competence of the local communities. And if you take away a significant amount of revenue from someone, it's also a direct intervention within the jurisdiction of local communities. Only in this case is the whole type of inadequacy and in particular the harmfulness of such a way of dealing with the Water Act, i.e. by emergency procedure, without the participation of the professional public, without the participation of local communities. And if we add to this the fact that, while water conferences are being abolished, where there is the possibility of both NGOs, the local population and representatives of local self-government, the economies being able to participate in the interventions under consideration in the field of water, we are talking about the fact that, in fact, it will be left somehow to the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to decide with whom it will contact, how it will contact and how it will lead to the end of the process when it decides on who it will grant the water right to build a 10-megat hydroelectric power plant. We believe that if anything is necessary in this law but it is necessary to correct and put an end to this interest in capital, this can be achieved in this amendment. I think that, at least here, we can somehow prove that we are trying to take into account the comments of the professional public and others who will certainly be affected if this amendment is not accepted. So I expect, Minister, that you will support this amendment and identify yourself in favour of the environment, in favour of maintaining water quality, in favour of people, and not only support the narrow and harsh interest of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The minister wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u147	I think there is an urgent need to clarify some of the things that have now been said. The Ministry of Environment is in no way willing or subordinated to some of the interests of capital, but we want to remain transparent in the procedures, and also in no way do we make any shortcuts with which anyone could take advantage, as you mentioned in your implementation, but also in the introduction you mentioned that we are already half selling Slovenian energy, which of course is not true. As far as placement is concerned, we are talking about the granting of a water permit, or earlier, a concession was needed. The procedure shall not interfere with spatial placement. Those who wish to build a small hydroelectric power plant will first have to coordinate accommodation with the municipality, obtain building permits for this facility, instead of prior granting the concession to the Government, will now obtain a water permit within the framework of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the environment is concerned, it does not change in any way, as the same conditions must be ensured for both the water permit and the concessions. These conditions are set out in Article 109 of the Law, namely, if it endangers human health, threatens the natural balance of water resources and aquatic ecosystems, restricts water management, significantly impedes general use or supply of drinking water, adversely affects or threatens the area protected by the nature management regulations and so on. We, by determining that water rights no longer need to be applied for and awarded a concession signed by the concession contract, but that this right to use water with a water permit does not change in any way the placement of the facility in the space. It is only an administrative procedure in which the right to use water is obtained, which must meet these conditions. As far as the municipalities are concerned, it does not change in any way. The only thing in the law for the lower Sava is the law that defines concessions; otherwise, in the water law, water refunds are fixed, and also in this law is now regulated by this amendment so that those facilities for which the concession is granted today and on the basis of the old concession contract are paid water refund, it is six years to issue a water permit and in the meantime the portion to which the municipalities are entitled is paid after the present concession. Thus, we do not in any way talk about interfering in spatial accommodation or in the resources of local communities in this area. The next, which is important in terms of experience, given the applications coming to the Ministry of the Environment, we can say that these are so-called small hydropower plants, which we are talking about and for which applications for concession have been submitted so far, in this range of between one and ten megawatts. It's usually a lot closer to one than ten. For these larger hydropower plants over ten megawatts, there are only two rivers in Slovenia according to my behaviour, one Sava, the other Mura, and that this is practically a category of these small hydropower plants, within which, as has already been said, these major not environmental impacts do not occur, but all the assessment goes according to the same procedure, whether the right to water use is granted by water permit or as before a concession contract. Let me also take advantage of the question raised on these public debates and on the Environment Council, which was abolished on 14 June in the National Assembly. By then, all our laws were in public presentation. We did not prejudge the decisions of the National Assembly, so we did not enter into this law, I am talking about the law on the environment, but there was also an initiative or promise to explore the possibility under the law that we will open again this year. I'm sorry, Vice President, for this exit a little further to the second marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? I've got two registered. We will, however, open time for discussion. Please sign up if anyone else is interested. Mr Tomaž Lisec will be discussed first and then Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u149	Thank you, Madam President. The amendments themselves stated that the procedure for granting concessions was more complex and long-term than for water licences. All those living at hydro power plants are absolutely in agreement with this. Then we get to the second part of the sentence, where they say that it is more fair to all interested beneficiaries of natural goods. And here we are looking at some general argument, in some area, almost not a flossule, where power arguments actually win, not some specific argument. I am surprised that, in fact, the amendment's proponents insist on existing solutions, despite the fact that the environment, as the Minister has already said, allows us some major interventions. I know that they are opposed to all interests because they immediately link some corruption to it, but I am interested in where they have been in all these governance mandates, because they have not detected any interest or problem of corruption anywhere. Thank God that there is any interest in Slovenia after any capital, that anyone else wants to work in any area, even if it is in the construction of small hydro power plants. It was mentioned earlier that by increasing the power of small hydropower plants, developing possibilities are limited or the environment is degraded. On the contrary. If the applicants gave examples from neighbouring countries, Germany, Switzerland and Austria, they would see many of these examples in practice, how important small hydropower plants are in the development of smaller or smaller settlements. I think that this argument, as the development possibilities are limited, is not to be observed in practice or anywhere. Then there were a couple of readings: it's a big intervention, it's a big capacity, it's a number 10 is greater than 1. I think all those of us who did at least a few classes of elementary school know that. It's basically just plain flossules without any argument. Then I would also like to respond to Mr Weber's words about the sale of energy. There's probably no evidence here. It's a family or some kind of fear that won't come true. When two energy pillars were established in Slovenia, many of those who now oppose small hydro power plants also opposed these two pillars, which brought a lot of good into Slovenia. You said it was an energy sale. In my personal opinion, I hope that as soon as possible a foreigner will arrive in Slovenian energy, that the uncles from the background will no longer be broken by large, small or medium-sized power plants, nor by nuclear power plants. Those who have ever driven across Switzerland, Austria, Germany and elsewhere; if you stop at a small hydroelectric power plant, it is not a degraded space, but, in addition to regulating water, the environment and the local population – at least those with whom I met abroad – are all very pleased with the lower energy price and the better life. These arguments cited by the amendment's proponents, I said, are sometimes attracted to hair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u150	Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. It is precisely because of the discussions of the coalition MPs that it would also be good for the Minister not to discuss 10 minutes of such important law and such important topics in the National Assembly, but to take really more time and accept it in a normal manner. If this law were to be adopted by normal procedure, the professional public and all interested parties would be involved. Believe me, today we would have a completely different view of what a change in the water law is. As far as energy is concerned. What the minister says will not be sold through Slovenian state holding and energy. Look, by simple logic, it'll be the following. Energy companies are now insanely profitable in Slovenia. The most profitable companies! If he wants to cover the bad investments of banks, if he wants to cover the Taiwanese credits, if he wants to cover the interest of the Roman Catholic Church, denationalisation, he is only holding out the one who will be able to drain energy companies and they will no longer create profits, but all dividends will go away and all profits will go to pay for it. Once the energy is exhausted, you'll sell it cheap. Just as all our important companies have been sold here in Slovenia, which have privatized on the basis of Taiwanese acquisitions and similar procedures. People are on the road, and individuals are getting rich. It's an energy rescue system! It is therefore very important that we do not talk about water permit in the water law either – it is not the same, Mr Minister, it is not the same either to place the procedure in the space or to carry out the procedure if it is bound to concession or to grant a water permit. It's not the same. If you claim that it is the same, there is no difference, then leave the marriage the way it is. But you're changing it in this particular area. Is that right? As far as we are concerned, the municipalities will receive the same as if it were a concession fee. Sorry, the Environmental Protection Act makes it very clear that this concession fee is divided into the local community and the country. Is that right? If not, read it, but this law actually speaks of it. If this is not a concession, of course there is no need to respect this law. And who has an interest in giving less to the congregation? Capital. Capital has an interest in giving as little as possible to the State, capital has an interest in giving as little to the congregation as possible; and this is what you are doing, however you turn! I would really love to confront you with a lot of arguments – who is right, whether you are right or we are. Once again, I ask you why you are putting this law under urgent procedure if you believe that everything is so crystal clear and that it is not necessary to involve the general public or the professional public in this process. Why do you think that Slovenian section of the Water Act is not necessary?Oh, my God! I know that during 20 years or even during the period of Slovenia alone in the field of water, it worked as a stepmother. Nobody took water seriously. Everyone was working on how to make the most of it as soon as possible either in the charger or in the energy field and so on. No one dealt with flood safety, no one dealt with the quality of the environment, no one took the quality of the water seriously. You are just continuing what has already been started in Slovenia; and this is bad and harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u152	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u153	Dear Member Weber, in at least one part, I think I have a very great right to replicate to you: in the part where you talk about the privatisation of Slovenian energy. First time. I said this law has nothing to do with the privatisation of Slovenian energy. You're talking about another law in this debate. As regards the award of concessions in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that in 1995, you were an MP, and I was the mayor in one environment at the time, where some lobbyists, who were later even ministers of the party to which you belong, lobbyed for Austrian concessionaires. I myself was the subject of this lobbying, then there was no lobbying law and in the coalition contract in 1996 it was signed on the basis of my intervention to grant a concession for the construction of the Lower Sava in the interest of Slovenian electricity. With names and surnames I will not go forward; if you want, you can, too, but, excuse me, I am not the right address to tell me that I want to make any foreign capital access to the space of energy, because I have already mentioned before, you have already mentioned any other area, because in the field of energy as a local policy I have been doing a lot of work and proved quite the opposite. And I have no temptation as a minister to succumb to any temptations of corruption and such things, as you speak so much of in adopting this law. In this part, I can say that I strongly oppose it, and I also believe that you have no reason to do so. As I have already mentioned, the law we have drawn up has reached out to a whole range of administrative permits, which have in life proved to be a whole series of long-term procedures. In the previous mandate, when there was nothing else to be done with regard to water licences or concessions for small hydropower plants, one regulation was adopted which allowed 107 negative decisions to be issued overnight at a government meeting as early as January of this year. That is why I think it would be right that we have intervened in some things, where we will also relieve the Environment Agency of some other procedures. Today, delays have been presented, and in the framework of these arrangements in this law, we want, in particular, that these procedures, as in the granting of — I don't know, we had before in presenting that we have a law such that if the owner changes and has a water pump for which only the owner has to be authorised, only the owner changes procedures should be renewed. This was largely intended for these solutions. The allocation of water rights for the operation of small hydroelectric power plants itself does not involve any shortcuts either in the spatial work or in the environmental work. I think there is no reason for the amendment proposed and already explained on the committee to support it here at the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss this article or amendment? Time is limited. Since I don't see a desire to discuss it, we're moving on to the next article. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I am opening a debate for this article or this amendment. Those of you who still have time can sign up. Therefore, we will obviously not discuss this article or this amendment, and we are now concluding the debate on this article. We are moving on to a new article and I am putting Article 26a and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups into discussion. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I do not see a desire for a debate, and we are therefore concluding this debate and moving on to the next article. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Once again, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. I don't see a desire to discuss it, so I'm concluding please? [[...]] As of the 26th article, I opened the debate, there was no wish after the debate, the amendment was tabled, mentioned, and 27. We have concluded with open articles, we are concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Agriculture Act, which has been tabled under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to Minister Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u155	In particular, the proposed law aims at removing administrative barriers and reducing costs for the enforcement procedures of the common agricultural policy, while at the same time enhancing the effectiveness of the implementation of measures and ensuring the purposeful use of funds. Key substantive changes are as follows: throughout the law, the Community rules are replaced by Union rules, the obligation of a farmer to have one transaction account for all actions, if he does not transfer it, and the Agency has the possibility to obtain it from the register of transaction accounts, and the non-residents can report an account abroad. A procedural provision shall be laid down which shall in particular enable the implementation of EU rules where the customer is to be deprived of the entitlement or to request reimbursement of the funds. The period shall be extended from 6 months to 1 year when the Agency may, in cases where the decision is made automatically by means of an information system and the actual situation or misapplication of the material provision is incorrectly established, repeal the whole decision and issue a new decision. It shall also be allowed for the Agency to determine, where the competent authority has failed to fully apply its decision by means of a final report or other final act of the competent supervisory or audit authority, that the funds have been allocated in contravention of Union or Union rules, and replaces it by a decision. An objective recovery period is extended for all recovery reasons from 3 months to 5 months, with a large number of cases. The possibility for a party to settle its asset recovery obligation in three three-month instalments is new and also provides for a procedure to be followed. It is possible that, in the event of unduely paid funds or withdrawals, unjustifiedly allocated entitlements, which do not exceed the amount fixed in accordance with Union rules, shall be EUR 100 in order not to issue a decision, which is also in accordance with European regulations. Sanctions are being reduced in the event of non-compliance with the obligations set out in the decision on the right to funding in the case of rural development programme measures from 5 to 2 years – the prohibition of applying for new calls – we are talking about – and this is only in the case of the measure to which it was first notified. The party's duty to report on the achievement of the objectives and fulfilment of the obligations is also provided for the possibility of imposing penalties under the law for non-compliance with obligations arising from the right to funds by establishing obligations under a specific agricultural policy measure. It is possible that quality schemes which have been or will be established under Union legislation are also recognised under the Agriculture Act and that no new procedures are necessary for them. It provides that control and certification organisations may also issue authorisations for the use of seeds or vegetative reproductive material not produced by organic production processes as a public authorisation. It provides that the tax records agency may obtain information on the tax and non-resident status of the entity. It is specified that the Ministry shall keep and retrieve data from the databases for natural persons of the type of pension and disability insurance where they are compulsoryly insured as farmers or members of farmers' holdings, or as other persons who carry out the agricultural activity alone as the sole or principal profession in the Republic of Slovenia, or where they are voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance on the basis of carrying out a separate agricultural activity. This data is urgently needed by the Ministry in order to plan and monitor agricultural policy measures and to monitor and analyse financial assistance measures. It further provides that producers are obliged to report the quantities produced by 15 October of the year of production of hops. It establishes a system for registering establishments and registering establishments engaged in the production of olive oil or olive oil.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Minister, for further explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u157	Dear President, once again the greeting of the Member and Members of Parliament, greetings to both ministers and co-workers! Committee on Agriculture, Forestry. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act was considered at its 9th emergency meeting. Seven. 2012. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in addition to its general comments, also made concrete proposals for a proposal for a law that was largely taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. In the debate, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups mainly take into account the written comments made in their opinion, although some remained open, for example in Articles 3, 4, 7, 8, 13 and 17 of the draft law. The representative of the proposer of the law did not make any further clarifications to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service in the discussion at the meeting of the Committee concerning those articles. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee was also presented with an amendment proposal from the Slovenian Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber for a new Article 10a proposing the organisation of financing of public services in the field of agriculture. In the debate, the representative of the Chamber pointed out that due to the nature of the part of the public agricultural advisory service, which carried out a subsidy campaign during the first half of the year, more than half of the work had been carried out in the first six months of the current year. The lack of financial resources also creates a major problem in the execution of tasks due to the irrational borrowing of loans and the payment of expensive interest to commercial banks in order to bridge the time when the State does not pay its tasks. In order to resolve the impossible and discriminatory situation in which public service providers in the Agricultural and Economic Chamber are re-established each year, the Chamber proposed that the Committee adopt an amendment to the new Article 10a, which would ensure that, until the adoption of the public service programme financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under a contract between the agricultural and agricultural public service providers, temporary funding would be carried out in accordance with the rules governing this area. With regard to this amendment, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment explained that the Ministry opposes such a solution because the financing of the Chamber is not the subject of this law, but of the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. This will be the subject of the funding of the Chamber for next year in the new Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, which will be submitted to the legislative procedure for the next year. With regard to that debate, the Committee unanimously adopted a proposal for a decision proposing to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to arrange for the financing of public services in the field of agriculture carried out by the Slovenian Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber in 2012 for a period of time when they do not have an approved programme of work. The content of the individual articles and the amendments tabled were not discussed by the members of the Committee. On the basis of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Committee adopted two drafting amendments. The Committee has identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u159	Your Honor! The SDS Party has written in its programme: "Agriculture must become an important economic activity in Slovenia that will provide food for all the inhabitants, new jobs and thus preserve the inhabited countryside. Agriculture measures must take into account both market legality and human health, the environment and social balance." We also have specific actions and objectives planned in the programme. And quite a few of these objectives and measures are also summed up by the current Agricultural Law, which is ahead of us. In the SDS Group, we support measures resulting from the amendment of the law, because we believe that this is another type of agricultural legislation that is aimed at the development or even the existence of agriculture or rural development. Since last week's Agricultural Lands Act, we have achieved a reduction in compensation for change of destination, which will facilitate the construction of all those, especially young people, who want to stay in the countryside. Later, with the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products Act, we will want to protect Slovenian products or raise their price with appropriate promotion. With this law, we facilitate, reduce, simplify and regulate many of the problems and problems that Slovenian farmers deal with and take away from them, instead of dealing with actual farm work. In the SDS Group, we support the fact that payments of agricultural policy measures to beneficiaries are referred to only one common transaction account. We support the establishment of the competence of the first-degree authority to withdraw entitlements by decision or to decide on the recovery of funds for agricultural policy measures. We support the provision of the possibility of repayment of the beneficiaries' debts. We also believe that it is appropriate that the law provides that no decision shall be taken to recover funds unduly paid or to withdraw unjustifiably allocated entitlements that do not exceed EUR 100. We also support that it is possible for the Agency to automatically obtain information on the entity's tax and residence status by virtue of its official duty. We also support the need for hop growers to report information on the quantities produced by 15 October of the year of production of hops and to establish a system for registering establishments dealing with the production of olive oil or olive tropics. In the SDS Group, we have had some doubts about the solution to the extension of the current deadline from 6 months to one year when the Agency can remove the decision and issue a new decision, but we have obtained appropriate answers from the competent ministry, why such a solution is coming, because this makes it easier for the actual situation. Also because of many, in particular public debates on the non-transparent use of European subsidies, we have had individual concerns about the reduction of the duration of the ban on rural development measures from 5 to 2 years in the event of an intentional filing of the wrong role, intentional irregularities and when a party uses funds contrary to the purposes for which they have been allocated, or even obtained such funds unlawfully. In addition, sanctions shall be reduced in the absence of reporting on the achievement of the objectives and the fulfilment of the obligations set out in the contracts on the right to funds. But we were calm when we received the assurance that it was an arrangement that was regulated equally at European level, which may indicate the great impact of agricultural policy. Personally, this measure on sanctions for unfair use of subsidies would be more radical, but, as already mentioned, it is a common European policy. The fact that the law is good also shows that there would be no substantive comments from either the profession or the opposition, in addition to the technical comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. To conclude: The law brings many changes that will relieve the Slovenian farmer of bureaucratic procedures, make it easier to work, so we will be happy to support him in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u161	Dear Chairman! Say hello again to all present, including you, Katarina. The Group of Social Democrats supports this law. You'll get our votes, Your Honor Minister. This law is also not the subject of an examination by the anti-corruption commission. And that's why you're going to get our votes. This law wants to reduce the administrative obstacles that are too high in the area of agriculture in our field. Here you will have our support further. However, we wish, Mr Minister, that you will also do what you have made a promise and commitment both to us and to the Slovenian public in your reply. It is related to this action, in which the Slovenian consumer was deceived by the fact that the yogurt is on the mountains of Slovenian origin, which we then found is not. You have made a commitment to change this law, i.e. the Agriculture Act, where it will be more clearly written, which such practices in Slovenia are not allowed. Thus, your inspectors will be better, more efficient and in some ways even more harshly able to act against those who think that Slovenia is not part of Central Europe, but is part of another Europe, some call it Eastern Europe. So, Minister, I propose that you keep this promise as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mag. Ms Katarina Hočevar on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u163	Hello again! In the Civil Gazette, amendments to the Agriculture Act are understood as an attempt and effort by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to remove administrative obstacles in this area that can still be placed within the so-called framework of minor changes. Administrative procedures in Slovenia are out of order. This is certainly true, including for the procedures for the common agricultural policy measures implemented by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development. Accreditation by the European Commission and the fact that it paid 224 million euros to our agriculture only last year also have a negative sign. In order to avoid irregularities in audits and thus to avoid financial penalties, it was not a priority to remove the administrative obstacle, but rather a goal to ensure that Brussels officials were satisfied and that Slovenian agriculture was provided with money. We are therefore particularly pleased in the National Gazette that a considerable part of the amendments to the Agriculture Act relate to the operation of this body within the Ministry and the removal of administrative obstacles between the Agency's operations and the Ministry of Field Affairs. This provides for the obligation of beneficiaries to use only one transaction account for all payments under the common agricultural policy measures. At the same time, the agency has the opportunity to obtain it through the transaction account register. The period shall be further extended when the Agency can remove the decision and replace it with a new one. This change is particularly important in administrative procedures, given that this state authority issues more than 150 000 decisions annually, these are largely issued through the information system and are more likely to have various irregularities. It is possible to repay the beneficiaries’ debt by hand and to reduce the duration of the ban on rural development measures from five to two years and to reduce sanctions in the event of non-reporting the achievement of the objectives and the fulfilment of the obligations set out in the Treaties on the Right to Resources. Since the Head of the National List is a simple and debirocratised Slovenia, we will gladly support the amendments to this law. At the same time, we note that the legal status of the farm, which we do not have regulated in the Slovenian legal order, will necessarily be necessary in the future under this law. Such a legal void in practice, and in general in the use of funds under the actions of the common agricultural policy, is causing a lot of confusion and not least abuse. It is unacceptable, for example, that, in all the pre-normary requirements in this area, it is permissible that, for example, a measure of diversification in non-agricultural activities on farms may be reported by someone who registers KMG-MID on the administration of the unit on the basis of land on which two hens are assigned. Or simply put: let us help with public European and national money those who produce food for the market. Today's amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act will, as has already been said, be supported by Members and Members of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u165	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary of State Uroš Rožič, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's marathon continues with the amendment of the Agriculture Act, which follows as much of today's legislative proposals the principle of removing administrative barriers and decommissioning the economy, in this case agricultural economies. The proposed law thus provides that beneficiaries of agricultural policy measures shall be credited with only one transaction account; it also provides for the possibility of repayment of the beneficiaries' debt; for the recovery of unduly paid assets or for the recovery of unjustifiedly allocated entitlements not exceeding EUR 100, the issuance of administrative decisions shall be suspended; the period of the ban on rural development measures shall be reduced from five to two years; and in cases of removal and replacement of administrative decisions on the basis of supervisory law, the time limit for issue shall be extended from six months to one year, thus reducing the financial and material burden on the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, which in this case is the secondary decision-making body. For growers, a new deadline for reporting production data is set for the purpose of more effective control of hop certification, which is 15 October. However, for olive oil growers a system for registering plants where oil is produced is also laid down. I will not say anything new if I say that we support the proposed changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We estimate that both the parties in the proceedings and the competent ministry are financially burdened with them, which is undoubtedly worth commending, and that is why we will unanimously support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u167	Thank you for saying that tonight is probably the eighth time, and a good evening for everyone. The new Agriculture Act seeks primarily to remove administrative barriers and reduce costs for procedures for the enforcement of the measures of the common agricultural policy, while at the same time improving the effectiveness of the implementation of measures and ensuring the purposeful use of funds. The proposal for a law is linked to an already in force budget which reduces the means for implementing measures. In addition to this novelty, it also reduces the costs of the competent ministry by transferring decisions to other authorised authorities, by reducing the number of complaints at the second stage, by eliminating new procedures for certain quality seeds, by reducing the costs of the agency, by increasing the direct use of official records, by reducing the number of calls for proposals and so on. As we have said many times today, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group, especially in this case when we are reducing bureaucratic barriers, as we believe that the proposed changes will reduce the costs of the state budget for the implementation of agricultural policy measures and in particular reduce the costs for customers, as some data will not have to be sent. Farmers will easily and simply be able to work more on their farm in their offices or kitchens where they meet these requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Vasle is also on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u169	I hope the marathoners will soon run out of time. Again, hello! The proposed amendment to the Agriculture Act belongs to that package of laws which we believe have an impact on the elimination of administrative barriers and the reduction of costs or on certain shortcomings of the legislation so far. In Novi Slovenija we are committed to modern agriculture, which will ensure the highest level of food supply in Slovenia. We advocate the production of agricultural crops that will provide quality and affordable food for the entire population. These objectives are currently being hampered by legislation, as in many areas it introduces a higher standard in the food sector with stricter rules than in neighbouring countries and in the EU. Moreover, the legislation itself is too extensive and therefore imprudent for the user. The solution is to harmonise legislation with the EU and to limit the imposition of additional requirements. Individuals and businesses will thus have fewer barriers to business, with lower costs, while more transparent legislation will make it easier to adhere to the rules imposed by this. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the amendments to the Agriculture Act, which will finally facilitate administrative procedures for our farmers and introduce a more normal situation. Among other measures, I would point out here in particular the reduced ban on applying for new calls in the event of non-compliance with the obligations set out in the decision on the right to funding in the case of rural development measures from five to two years. It also reduces sanctions in the event of failure to report on the achievement of the objectives and fulfilment of the obligations set out in the contracts on the right to funds, from 10% to 5% of the funds received. Some farmers who have been subjected to these sanctions are, due to an unintended error or delay, a disproportionate burden and place them in an unequal position compared to others. Among other things, the system of quality schemes for food will be simplified, where there will be no duplication of procedures, and control and certification organisations will also be able to carry out, as a public authority, the issue of seed or vegetative propagating material not produced by organic production. The law brings many good solutions and, above all, reliefs for the Slovenian farmer, so the Members of New Slovenia will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vasle. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Point, it's a defence proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of agricultural and animal products which has been tabled in an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to Minister Franz Bogovic for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u171	Since I'm coming from Krskov, where there's also a speeding nuclear, I can say I'm running the last, fourth lap, as was said tonight. And in this fourth round, I will give you the basic contours of the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products provides for new rules for the performance of the professional tasks laid down in Article 27 of the current law. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment foresees that it will be easier to implement the law in an operational manner, as prescribed in the amendment to the law. Amendments to the law provide that the professional tasks referred to in Article 27 of the Law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. However, the Ministry may carry out the individual professional tasks referred to in Article 27, paragraph 1, of the Act by means of an external contractor to be selected on the basis of the rules governing public procurement. Such a solution replaces a valid one, which provided that the operator of the entire package of professional tasks referred to in Article 27a for a period of 6 years shall be selected on a public invitation to tender. Given that the implementation of the professional tasks referred to in Article 27 of the Law is transferred to the Ministry, as a consequence, certain professional tasks cannot be carried out by the Ministry, as this is in conflict with other applicable regulations in the field of employment of the Ministry. Thus, the following professional tasks are deleted from the scope of the professional tasks referred to in Article 27 of the Act: the preparation of specifications under the national quality scheme and voluntary designation, and the development and market management of acquired designations for national quality schemes and voluntary designations. These tasks will be taken over by producer associations. Such a procedure is already provided for in the existing legislation of the Agriculture Act and the Regulation on the procedures for the protection of agricultural crops at the Ministry, independent of the law. In view of the changed powers of the Ministry as a professional contractor, the role of the Council for the promotion of agricultural and food products in the preparation of the strategic plan and the implementation of the promotion programme is therefore changing. During its tasks, the Council no longer has a coordinated proposal for a strategic promotion plan, as it is being prepared by the Ministry and is submitting a guidance ministry for the preparation of the strategic plan and for the promotion programme. It will also follow up the implementation of the promotion programme by the Promotion Council on the basis of an annual report prepared by the Ministry, following new changes in applications for promotion. In the current law, the Council proposes to the Minister an annual report on the implementation of the promotion programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u172	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the word mag. Diane Jedhan, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u173	Thank you, Madam President. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products as its parent working body at its 10th emergency meeting. Seven. 2012. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Association of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to Article 1, Article 2, and Article 3 of the bill, the comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups and were also adopted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. Members of the Commission expressed their conviction that some of the Slovenian food promotions achieved in the past had been very successful and contributed to the change of the Slovenian consumer's attitude to Slovenian products and to food production in Slovenia. The president of the Association of Slovenia also took part in the debate, which also supports the proposal for a law. He pointed out, however, that there are some concerns, particularly regarding the impact on the milk marketing segment, which is now being organised through cooperatives. The position of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber was presented by its Director, the Chamber supports the proposal for a law and expresses its concern about the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3, which deletes a provision whereby the performance of individual professional tasks may be chosen by the Ministry on the basis of the rules governing public procurement. In view of the deletion of this provision, the Chamber considers that the law could be less operational. In the course of the debate, the members of the committee supported the amendment of the law and stressed that it was essential that the law in force could actually be implemented in practice and thus contribute to the creation of the competitive capacity of Slovenian agri-food companies and agriculture and consequently to the increase in the level of food supply in Slovenia. However, some members of the committee supporting the bill expressed fear that there might be problems in practice in collecting contributions from primary agricultural products which are earmarked for general promotion and means of promoting quality and voluntary designations. Some have also expressed doubts that only by amending the four articles contained in the amendment of the law will it be possible to achieve the objective pursued by the amendment of the law, this is to implement the provisions of the law as quickly as possible in practice. Some questions were also raised in the debate, on which the State Secretary from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment provided extensive clarifications. The Committee has identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee did not design and adopt its amendments from the debate. The Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u174	Positions of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Production, production and processing of agricultural and food products in Slovenia is an important economic and social factor. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, imports of agri-food products into the Slovenian market have increased so that competitive pressures on domestic suppliers have already led to a deterioration in the economic situation of certain production sectors. Slovenia's entry into the European Union, on the other hand, has also encouraged new opportunities for more intensive performance by Slovenian agri-food providers in the European Union's single market, but so far the results are modest. We are down the number of agricultural holdings, we have a fragmented parcel structure, we are down a share of self-sustainment, we are growing a cultural and cultivated landscape. In short, most indicators, if not almost all, are negative in agriculture or at least close to it. Last year we passed the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were pleased to see the competitive capacity of Slovenian agri-food companies and agriculture in the long term and, on the other hand, the self-sustainment of Slovenia in the field of food would increase. Regrettably, it was a solution for the implementing part of the promotion to be carried out by an organisation selected at the invitation to tender inadvertently and in practice impractical. The Promotion Council is composed of representatives of non-governmental organisations, three representatives from the agricultural area, three representatives from the food processing industry and two representatives from the Government. But where the complications are concerned – at work where the law states that operationally important documentation is a strategic promotion and then an implementation plan, an organisation to be selected at a public invitation or competition. It was a call. Two organisations have applied, but the previous Minister has annulled the call due to an alleged conflict of interest. If we want a good law to live in practice, it is necessary to adopt an amendment to the law which passes the implementing part of the promotion to employees at the Ministry. We are aware that this solution is not the most optimal, but in the given situation, the only real possibility is to start in Slovenia with the right promotion of agricultural and food products. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u176	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u177	Once again, welcome present and present! We will also support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. We agree that this solution is a compromise, but it turns out that between three options. One option is to set up a separate food promotion agency, which we have opposed to the Social Democrats, because given the smallness of the Slovenian space, it would spend too much money on its operations. The solution to the invitation to tender in the Slovenian space does not prove to be a good one, because the public tenders are too complex, too many complaints are possible, so that this solution, which is now proposed by the Minister and the Ministry, is acceptable to us and we support it. In doing so, we would like to highlight the following information. In recent years, the sensitivity of the Slovenian consumer, which is good, to Slovenian agricultural products, food products, has improved significantly. You probably know the information that if 34% of Slovenians were important to the product two years ago, that it is domestic, that it is of Slovenian origin, we, as such buyers, are already 46%. We hope that this trend will continue and then Slovenian agricultural and food production will be safe. We were also cheered by the information published a few days ago by Eurostat, which is that 72% of Slovenians are seriously considering food and, in particular, the danger posed by the food crisis. I believe that this amendment to the law, as it was the first time, will be adopted unanimously in the National Assembly. This will give Slovenian agriculture and food production a positive signal that at least in this area political parties do not argue, but jointly support Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmers. At the same time, I expect the government to put some money on the promotion item. Nothing helps us to adopt a programme to adopt the Law on the Promotion of Slovenian Agricultural Products if the competent minister collects all the money for promotion to the Minister of Agriculture. Thus, Mr Minister, I hope that the Minister of Finance will also someday see the importance of the promotion of Slovenian products and the importance of Slovenian food for Slovenian space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u178	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u179	Dear colleagues and colleagues who are still here today! Promotion is important, but if financial times are so difficult, the stepmother’s attitude towards promotion simply cannot and cannot be afforded. Those companies that are very well aware of this are usually more successful, more pervasive and more recognizable. Keep the brand, increase the market share, discover the niche or just remind customers that we don't care about their decision. We can do all this by properly promoting products and services, and when we talk about agricultural and food products, it is no different. Even greater sensitivity and a sense of security is needed. We have a law on the promotion of agricultural and food products, but we cannot implement it. Incompetence?Oh, my God! Ignorance?Oh, my God! Anyway, for now, marriage is just a written word. The invitation to tender made it impossible to select a tenderer capable of carrying out very difficult promotion tasks. Therefore, the legislator decided to accelerate and facilitate the implementation of the law in order to transfer the professional tasks set out in Article 27 to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. This will enable Slovenia's agri-food companies to compete as quickly as possible and with as few additional funding as possible. Promotion is an investment for the future. We are very well aware of this in the National Gazette. With the confidence that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will implement legislation to the fullest extent possible, allowing for a clear, transparent, fair and efficient way of promoting agricultural and food products, we will support the proposal for a law in the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u180	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u181	Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the law as it will allow for the implementation of the adopted Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products last year. This will enable the Ministry to assume the professional tasks set out in Article 27 of the Law, which is currently the best and fastest solution. Therefore, certain tasks must be delegated to the association of producers in order not to be in conflict with other competent ministries. In this way, producer associations will be responsible for the preparation of specifications for national quality schemes and voluntary designations and for the development and market management of acquired designations for national quality schemes and voluntary designations. In view of the changed powers of the Ministry, it is therefore necessary to change the role of the Promotion Council in the preparation of the strategic plan and the implementation programme of the promotion. During its tasks, the Council will therefore no longer have a coordinated proposal for a strategic promotion plan, but will provide the Minister only with guidance for the preparation of the strategic plan and for the promotion programme and, instead of submitting the report, only monitor the implementation of the promotion programme. The most important thing about the amendment of this law is to enable effective and rapid implementation of the law, as the practice of the past shows that promotion effectively encourages the consumer to intervene more effectively on Slovenian products and that Slovenian food will become more important to him than imported products. The correct and rapid promotion of Slovenian products is therefore very important for the Slovenian farmer and for all Slovenian food producers who are struggling to compete in the flood of cheaper food products. Some of the concerns arising from the interference with the already established organisation of the production of milk and meat must not constitute an obstacle to the rapid and effective implementation of the law and the promotion of Slovenian products which will accelerate Slovenia's self-sustainment, which is of strategic importance to us at present. Later, when implementing the law, it will be possible to assess whether further amendments and additions are needed. So in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we want the novels to come to life as soon as possible and we will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u182	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u183	President, thank you for your word. We have before us the amendment to the Act on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, which regulates the performance of professional tasks in a new way. In order to plan and implement the promotion of agricultural and food products and consumer information in the public interest, the Ministry shall be empowered by law. However, we have already heard from the predecessor that without the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment receiving adequate funding from the Ministry of Finance, there will be no promotion. However, for individual professional promotion tasks, the law still provides for the selection of contractors with a call for tender, although in the past the selection of the professional promotion mandate holder for a six-year period on the basis of a contract was not feasible, since the tendering market did not find an appropriate contractor who could carry out all the required professional tasks laid down by law in one person. The proposer, and with him, all of us who want this law to finally come to life and achieve its objectives, hope that at least for individual professional promotion tasks there will be an appropriate contractor through a call for proposals. Otherwise, the proposal sets out more precisely the powers of the Promotion Council in the preparation of the strategic promotion plan. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill in the hope that it will reach its purpose as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u184	Thank you. The New Slovenia Group, Mr. Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u185	When the four of us circle around, it's a living example of colliding, which is also used in agriculture. And if we're in good shape, we've got good crops. I ask you – for Dean, I know he makes his own vegetables, so close and when the vegetables are the richest and when you tear them off, but some of us also have to buy them or produce them in our own garden. We can also buy it from a nearby farmer or even get it to our home. We can also go to shopping malls and these centers are dominated by Spanish, Italian vegetables, other continents, South Africa, Asia, South America and so on. Here this thing goes into play now to require our attention to origin, to the vicinity of this food and to give priority to domestic, Slovenian products. In New Slovenia, we always stress that we are individuals, consumers who will make a decisive contribution to the progress and development of Slovenian agriculture, but first we must change our thinking, stop buying second-class imported food products and decide to buy a much better quality home food, which is certainly healthier and has a lower carbon footprint. By adopting the proposed amendment to the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, we will enable and help the Slovenian consumer develop a positive attitude towards domestic food through various forms of promotion of domestic crops and products. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has qualified people and sufficient resources to be able to carry out these tasks competently, which unfortunately were never carried out in practice at the time of the current law. It would be pointless to extend the waiting period and repeat the invitation to tender under the current law, as this would be a waste of time and an opportunity for Slovenian food producers. The law in the process enjoys the broad support of NGOs, to mention only the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenia, and that is why the Members of New Slovenia will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u186	Thank you. This is how we ended up presenting the views of the groups of Members. We do not have any amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow evening in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 11. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT LEGISLATION LAW The draft law was tabled by the Government following an urgent procedure for the consideration of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Amendments to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development are proposed in three areas, namely the rationalisation of administrative procedures, to improve the systemic solutions that proved difficult to implement last March, and, thirdly, to upgrade the regional policy for the purpose of drawing on European funds in the new 2014-2020 programming period. The rationalisation of administrative procedures will be achieved in the following ways: by setting up legal bases for the merger of two funds, the Slovenian Regional Development Fund and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund into one public fund; by removing the register of regional managers, which has not been established within a legal time frame — that is to say, this record; by removing the Council for the Territorial Coordination of Development Initiatives, which has not even been implemented at ministerial level, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which has also started all the time; by deleting the obligation of municipalities to set up regional development agencies as a public institution, as this would entail additional costs for the municipality, which is simply not possible in the light of this financial crisis. However, we are introducing the obligation of a majority public interest in the ownership composition of regional development agencies. And by providing that arrangements for the development of the regions are concluded by the Ministry responsible for regional development and by the Development Council of the region. So far, this has had to go through a longer government procedure, which has only complicated everything. Systemic solutions will be improved in the design of the region's development council. The mandatory adoption of the decision establishing the development council of the region on municipal councils and the simplification of the election of members of the Council has been abolished. Improvements will be made in the way in which the region's development council is decided. The ratio of votes between representatives of municipalities, the economy and the non-governmental sector has changed so far. And thirdly, by reintroducing the world of the region in which all mayors in the region are represented and confirming key decisions that also have financial implications for the budgets of the municipalities. I mentioned below the third upgrade of the regional policy to draw on European funds for the period 2014-2020, and this will be ensured by the introduction of cohesion regions at the territorial level of NUTS 2 – that is, the Eastern and Western cohesion regions will live not only on paper but also in practice. It will be ensured by the introduction of the cohesion development council, which will have an impact on decision-making on the content and implementation of EU programmes in the cohesion region and its secretariat, which otherwise falls under the Ministry responsible for regional policy. However, there is also the possibility of transferring administrations to certain programmes of the European Union in one or another cohesion region. In this way, we intend to apply the principle of decentralisation in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u188	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening! If there was no agriculture before, now there will be little economy. At its 13th urgent meeting this month, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development as its parent working body. Before the meeting, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of the Hungarian National Self-Government, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic Council, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the comments of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the proposal of the amendment of the Office of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. The President of the National Assembly also sent the draft law to the opinion of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and local communities. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposal for a law introduces significant systemic changes in the law in force with regard to entities or promoters of consistent regional development and consequently changes or interferes with the relationship between them. On the basis of specific comments by the ZPS, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled amendments to the draft law for which the Legislative and Legal Service has assessed that they are mainly following its comments. Various opinions were expressed at the Committee's debate. The members of the opposition parliamentary groups, however, objected to taking swift decisions without prior basic analyses of the situation and a broader debate in the context of the professional public. They also considered that the integration of the three agencies into the new agency or two funds into the new fund, in the specific case of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development, would not affect the reduction of costs or the increased competitiveness of the economy, the increased support for development and research and the more efficient use of European funds with a view to raising the rate of economic growth. Instead of promoting development, they believe that these institutions will deal mainly with reorganisation and administration. The meeting also drew particular attention to the inadequate representation of representatives of the economy and NGOs in the regional development councils, but was dominated by the opinion that in municipalities they did not want the predominant role of foreign entities or voting in key decisions on the regional development programme and decision-making on priorities for which municipalities also take political responsibility in the implementation of regional development programmes. On the other hand, members of coalition groups felt that the amendment of the law contributed to the rationalisation of administrative procedures, improved systemic solutions and changes in the area of regional policy upgrades for the purpose of drawing on European funds in the 2014-2020 programming period. They also supported the creation of legal bases for the integration of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund into a single public fund, which they estimate will increase the value of assets by around €150 million. They also supported other proposed changes, in particular the introduction of two cohesion regions for the successful integration of Slovenia into the cohesion policy of the European Union. The Committee adopted the coalition amendments and its amendments and ensured coherence between the related novelties of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development and the amendment of the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship. At the same time, it ensured their simultaneous application. The Committee adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u190	Thank you. The views of the members of the groups are on the table. First, Mr Srečko Meh on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u191	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! This is a law that could be adopted by means of a rapid or urgent procedure, because it can actually affect development, the creation of new jobs, and because it also allows municipalities or regional councils to intervene in what they consider to be important for this development. Therefore, the proposal for a law to promote coherent development allows both funds to be pooled into a single fund, which we think is a good solution. It is therefore an activity in the context of the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to rationalise ministries, bodies in the composition of government services, public agencies and public institutions. Systematic changes are therefore necessary in this area, so that the combined public funds are a step in the direction indicated. Social Democrats would also be convinced of that. The law also proposes amendments that will facilitate the design and effective decision-making of regional authorities and the functioning of regional and development agencies; of course, if these agencies, as has already been said, also have the right programmes and managers. This is also considered by the Government to be so difficult for the development of development councils and for the establishment of regional development agencies after one and a half years of implementation of the Law on the Promotion of a coherent regional development of a solution that no regional development agency has been set up within the legal time limit and no regional development agency has been established in accordance with the law. So it's mostly about simplifications. It is proposed to delete the register of regional managers, which has not been established within the legal time limit due to the complexity of the conditions. We support the proposed pooling of funds, provided that the pooling of funds does not result in changes in the way the regions are financed. With regard to the integration of regional policy into EU cohesion policy, which proposes to complement the system at the level of two cohesion regions, we believe that the possibility of drawing on European funds in less developed cohesion regions is an option. We support the proposed solution of the Social Democrats, but we remind the Government that if there are no major projects that will draw on cohesion funds, then there will be no greater benefit for the division of cohesion regions. In view of the new financial perspective 2013-2020, the division in the two cohesion regions makes sense. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, but we expect the Government to also prepare new measures to promote coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u192	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u193	Dear colleagues, colleagues, president, minister! The accessions of countries that are now successful in reducing development differences focus mainly on creating conditions for improving the economic vitality of the regions. Such an approach promotes the creation and growth of new enterprises, promotes business flexibility, flexibility in employment and the acquisition of the necessary skills, and partnerships between economic operators and regional and national knowledge institutions. Among other things, the new regional policy also focuses on developing institutional support for individuals, local communities and regions to adapt rapidly and successfully to change. The aim of the proposed law, which is before us today, follows the objectives of last year's law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which is to strengthen the development power of the regions on the basis of their own development potentials and global opportunities. Part of the amendments foreseen for the adoption of the law last year have been implemented to a certain extent, but a large part has remained due to non-reality and upgrades in practice. Let me briefly list some of the key objectives of the new legislation on promoting coherent regional development. One of the objectives is to rationalise administrative procedures and additional savings in the use of public funds; to further improve systemic solutions which, following the implementation last March of the Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, proved difficult to implement and, last but not least, to upgrade the regional policy for its integration into the cohesion policy of the European Union in the new 2014-2020 programming period. Among other things, the adoption of the bill will allow the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship to be merged into the Internal Public Fund. In the Parliamentary Group, we are confident that the changes brought by the novels will be very welcome, so we will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u194	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! The new Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development is another type of legislative change aimed at rationalising administrative procedures and spending public funds. The changes are quite extensive and improve systemic solutions to the law and address some of the identified shortcomings in practice. The marriage novel is also in line with the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, which actively participated in the drafting of the law. The law also supports the State Council, which is particularly important in terms of the nature of the law. In addition to the administrative changes already mentioned in the presentation, one of the main features of this law is the preparation of a legal basis for the accession of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship to the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development. It is worth pointing out here that one of the coalition's commitments is also being fulfilled at this point in order to seek both administrative and organisational savings through mergers. Although there has been a lot of dissatisfaction at the merger mentioned in this proposal, especially in the absence of similar material, we cannot agree with this in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The new public fund will be actively involved both in entrepreneurship and in regional development and rural development, which often goes hand in hand. The pooling of funds is essential when it comes to mergers. Indeed, with poor €150 million we are creating a significantly stronger fund, which will also make it easier to compete for funds from foreign banking institutions. The multiplier effect of the incentives to be shared by the Joint Fund will continue to increase. The funds remain located in Ribnica and Maribor. As a result of the merger of activities, they will make their services more accessible. Thirdly, for Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the upgrading of the regional policy for its successful integration into the cohesion policy of the European Union in the new 2014-2020 programming period is very important. Such a change includes the establishment of restrictions on the transfer of border municipalities to another development region and the introduction of a cohesion development council as a decision-making body. Finally, the Eastern and Western cohesion regions, which so far only existed on paper, will come to life. With the very poor use of European funds in recent years, it is very important that we turn our attention to and devote much more attention to European funds now with a focus on the future financial perspective. As has been said many times before, in these financial times, European funds are still very important in the new start-up of the Slovenian economy. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u196	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u197	Good evening, Mr President, Minister and co-workers, and welcome also Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the amendment of the current law on coherent regional development, which the Government has prepared after only one year of its entry into force. This year, a number of poor or non-functional provisions have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law, and the Government is making corrections. Among other things, the legal basis for merging the Slovenian Regional Development Fund and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund into one public fund is the legal novelty. This will increase the earmarked assets by €150 million. It also provides for the removal of regional managers' records, the abolition of the Council for Territorial Coordination of Development Initiatives, the removal of the obligations of municipalities to set up regional development agencies as public institutions, and the provision under which arrangements for the development of regions are concluded by the Ministry responsible for regional development and the Regional Development Council. The Law on the promotion of coherent regional development also provides for improved systemic solutions, which have proven difficult to implement after the implementation of the law now in force. Systemic solutions will thus be improved, inter alia, in the way in which the development council of the region is formed, by abolishing the decision on the establishment of the development council of the region on municipal councils and simplifying the election of members of the Council. Improvements are also promised in the way in which the region's development council is decided by changing the voting relationship between representatives of municipalities, the economy and the non-governmental sector. Following the amendment, the majority of the public interest represented by the representatives of the municipalities will be ensured. The world of the region in which all mayors in the region are represented is also being reintroduced. The Council endorses key decisions which also have financial implications for the budget of the municipality. The construction of a regional policy for its successful integration into the cohesion policy of the European Union in the new programming period 2014-2020 will be ensured by setting limits on the crossing of border municipalities into the other development region, by establishing two cohesion regions at the territorial level of NUTS 2, Eastern and Western, and by establishing a cohesion region development council as a decision-making body at the level of the cohesion region and its secretariat. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u198	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with colleagues! During the period of crisis, individual Slovenian regions, in particular border areas, suffered significant job losses and as a result even increased development differences between regions. The current acute economic situation in the country requires an adjustment to the administrative framework in the area of promoting coherent regional development. State and local communities, through funds and local communities through regional development agencies, are responsible for ensuring coherent regional development. In fact, Slovenia is fortunate that in this mandate, the care for coherent regional development is covered by a minister who comes from a typical peripheral Slovenian region, who so well knows all the benefits and minuses of such regions. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development establishes an appropriate legal basis for rationalising administrative procedures and additional savings. One of the innovations – these are quite a few, and I do not have time to count everything – introduced by this amendment of the law is the integration of the RS Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development and the Public Enterprise Fund into a single public fund with a common financial potential of around €150 million. This reduces the number of authorities in the composition of ministries and rationalises the work of the state administration. The Joint Public Fund, however, will be a more capital-intensive institution and, as such, more prepared for greater financial incentives to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Such a strengthened institution will also make it easier to compete with funds abroad, in particular with the European Investment Bank. The existing system of regional development agencies and their current way of organising powers and decision-making do not meet the contemporary challenges of time. The developmental strengths of the regions need to be strengthened on the basis of their own potential and global opportunities. The current regional development agencies will have to start with a new concept of work focused primarily on interconnection and cooperation, in particular in areas that address the issue comprehensively in a wider region or have an impact on the development of a wider region. Slovenia needs stronger regional development agencies to ensure the competitive development of neighbouring regions in European countries and to be able to represent the Slovenian economy and culture in the wider European area. The new law allows for the establishment of regional development agencies in different legal forms, either as limited liability companies, such as institutions, public institutions, agencies, but always with a mandatory majority public interest. This ensures public interest in regional development agencies, without overburdening municipal budgets at the same time, and the legal structure will be adapted to the development needs of the region. The legislative changes we decide on are comparable to those already introduced by other European countries in the area of regional policy and have already adapted to globalisation and the impact of European Union policy. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment of the law, as we expect the innovations it brings to have a significant impact and contribute to the promotion of more coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u200	Thank you. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good evening to you all, Mr. Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law because the legislation in force is essentially being upgraded from the point of view of rationalising administrative procedures, improving systemic solutions and the effectiveness of drawing on European funds in the future 2014-2020 programming period. We believe that in the context of the rationalisation of administrative procedures, the RS Public Fund for Entrepreneurship and the RS Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development are being merged into a public institution or a public fund. Since, in the context of or through the intervention of the latter as a specific activity, the promotion of the programmes of indigenous national communities or programmes with a national mixed area in connection with the creation of the economic base of the Hungarian and Italian communities is also being carried out, in cooperation with the competent organisations of the said communities, we have proposed to supplement the original text of the bill so that in the world of the regions covering the national mixed area, we will also allow the mayors to cooperate with the presidents of the councils of the on-board organisations of the national communities. In this regard, we have held an in-depth expert debate with representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Technology, which has been substantively useful and formally successful. Without further deepening this content, I should simply point out that, in recent times in these regions, the economic opportunity has been over-exploited in terms of the presence of indigenous national communities. Regrettably, this gift or objective circumstance was not considered to be an added value of the national mixed area. It is therefore important that, in the future, we are also legally correcting this situation or upgrading it somehow in the context of the recently realised Slovenian-Italian Presidential Bilateral, when both sides stressed that national communities are not costs for the country or the region, but opportunities and investments for the well-being of all the inhabitants of the region. On the basis of Mr Battelli's delegation, we have tabled an amendment to Article 9 of the Act, under which we have proposed the addition of the third paragraph in the sense that the Council of the region where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, together with the mayors, consists of the Presidents of the Councils of the two umbrella organisations. The amendment was supported by the competent home committee, which is important both for the conservation and development of national communities and for the additional development potential of the entire area. With regard to the harmonisation of the text of the draft law, the adoption of the amendment required a harmonisation amendment, which coalition parties had also done. Of course, we will be happy to support this amendment as well as the amendment of the coalition to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u202	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The proposed amendments and additions to the law concern three areas: rationalisation of administrative procedures, improvement of system solutions that have not been put into practice, and upgrading of regional policy for the purpose of drawing on European funds in the new 2014-2020 programming period. The rationalisation of administrative procedures will be achieved through the establishment of legal bases through the merger of the Public Fund of the Republic for Regional Development and Rural Development and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for entrepreneurship into a single public fund, the removal of the register of regional managers which has not been established within the legal deadline, and the abolition of the Council for Territorial Coordination of Development Initiatives, which has not come to life at ministerial level. Its tasks will be taken over by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The rationalisation of administrative procedures will also be achieved by deleting the obligation of municipalities to set up regional development agencies such as public institutions, which would entail additional costs for municipalities. However, the obligation of a majority public interest in the ownership composition of regional development agencies is introduced. From now on, regional development ministries and regional development councils will enter into agreements for the development of the regions. The obligation to adopt decisions establishing the development council of the region on municipal councils and the simplified election of members of the Council has been lifted. The decision-making method of the development council of the region is also improved. The voting ratio between the municipalities, the economy and the non-governmental sector has been changed so far. The public interest represented by the representatives of the municipalities shall be guaranteed by a majority. Systemic solutions will also be improved by reintroducing the world of the region in which all mayors in the region are represented. The Council of the region confirms, inter alia, decisions having financial implications for the budgets of municipalities in the region. A regional policy for drawing on European funds for the period 2014-2020 is also being upgraded, which will be ensured by the introduction of cohesion regions at the territorial level of NUTS 2. In this way, the Eastern and Western cohesion region will also live in practice. A development council of the cohesion region is also being introduced, which will have an impact on decision-making on the content and implementation of the European Union programme in the cohesion region. There is also the possibility of transferring the managing authorities for certain programmes of the European Union to one or another cohesion region, which would contribute to the decentralisation of the administration. The bill thus eliminates, in particular, systemic obstacles and forms of organisation that have not taken place in the practice of the municipalities. The new law contributes to the rationalisation of administrative procedures, creates the legal basis for the merger of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund into a single public fund, which is estimated to increase assets by around €150 million. It should be noted, however, that in municipalities they do not want the dominant role of other entities or the voting in key decisions in the regional development programme and decision-making on priorities. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u204	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments. We have two amendments. First, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. There's no willingness to discuss it, so I'm concluding it. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item – Proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Magi. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u205	Thank you very much, President. The aim of the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises is to prepare an appropriate legal basis for a public agency that will result from the merger of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, according to the domestic Japta, Slovenian Tourism Organisation – WTO, and the Public Agency for the Technological Development of the Republic of Slovenia – TIA. The aim of the merger of the implementing institutions of Japti, TIA and WTO into the new agency is to increase the efficiency of promotion and to ensure the promotion of technological development and innovation, but of course also to reduce the costs of the operation of all three agencies currently scattered at the three ends of Ljubljana with the costs associated with it. In fact, this is a editorial change, if I say so, a law where the word "public agency for the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises" is replaced by the word "activities for the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises are carried out by a public agency for tourism, foreign investment, technological development of entrepreneurship and internationalisation". It is therefore a legal basis for the merger of these three agencies. Of course, the operational documents necessary for this will be prepared by the Ministry in the coming weeks and months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u206	Thank you. The draft law was examined by the Committee on the Economy. Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee, has the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. At its 13th urgent meeting, the Economic Committee considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment. The Chair's College is at the last session of the 5. Seven. 2012 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the Ministry, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and our Legal and Legal Services. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 1, 1a, 2 and 3. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, at the meeting on the comments made by the services in writing, pointed out that the harmonisation of the proposed laws governing the merger of those institutions should be taken into account. With regard to the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3, she drew attention to the duplication with the text of the amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Support Environment and also highlighted the need to amend the deadline in order to comply with the other laws governing the association of institutions. On the basis of those comments, the Committee adopted two amendments to the Committee's legislative and legal service, namely the first amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups, and the second amendment to Article 3 and Article 4 of the bill. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and also adopted them In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which is also an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u208	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! This amendment of the law, such as the amendment of the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment and the Amendment to the Law on the promotion of coherent regional development, is also linked to the decision to make substantive and organisational changes in institutions implementing the measures of the competent ministry in the field of promoting competitiveness, research and technological development, entrepreneurship and innovation, tourism and the internationalisation of the economy. The amendment of the law therefore constitutes the legal basis for the merger of two agencies, namely the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment and the Public Agency for Technology of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Tourism Organization into a new public agency. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we know that this decision called for the need to eliminate the duplication of the work of these institutions and optimize their work in order to combine the implementation of related activities, to ensure a more transparent functioning and to allow for closer substantive integration of work processes, which will also lead to a reduction in the cost of operation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, due to the revised organisation, uniform and comprehensive measures and increased efficiency of the new public agency, we expect a positive impact on public finances. It is estimated or estimated that the State will save 10% of the funds at the first stage and after optimisation of all processes and human resources, which is only a reason more to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u210	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u211	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. At the same time, the Government has tabled three proposals for legislation aimed at transforming implementing institutions in a substantive and organisational manner in the field of promoting competitiveness, research and technological development, entrepreneurship and innovation, tourism and the internationalisation of the economy. The decision to merge the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, the Public Technology Agency and the Slovenian Tourism Organisation into a new agency and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development into a single public fund will, according to the Government, rationalise and optimize their work, reduce the cost of operations and have favourable public financial effects. In the DeSUS Group, we understand and support such a decision as it eliminates duplication in the work of these institutions and optimizes their work, combines the implementation of related activities, ensures greater transparency of action and allows for closer substantive integration of work processes, which will also be reflected in the Slovenian economy and in the reduction of the costs of operation of the five institutions in this area. Amendments to this Act and to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism are necessary because there is no legal basis in the existing regulation for the operation of the Joint Agency, which will be created by the merger of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Enterprise and Foreign Investment, the Public Agency for the Technological Development of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. The new public agency, which will therefore combine the three mentioned above under its auspices, as an expert and autonomous organisation, will be able to ensure more efficient and transparent implementation of development policy measures and the continuous development of quality services for users. In the DeSUS Group, we will support this proposal and the other two substantively related laws in the hope that they will reach their goal as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u212	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The economic and financial crisis is forcing us to look for solutions to turn our economic indicators upwards. In doing so, the Government faces various dilemmas and constraints that the current Slovenian and global environment poses. By amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises, the Government wants to lay the groundwork for a new public agency, which will be created through the merger of two existing agencies. We expect that this merger will produce certain synergies that can encourage additional technological development and innovation in the Slovenian economy. In New Slovenia, we believe that the crisis needs to be responded proactively and that we need to actively look for answers to the challenges posed by the global economic environment, where innovation is particularly valued and rewarded. We believe that the newly established agency could be some kind of catalyst for developing innovative thinking in Slovenia, so we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u214	Thank you. Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u215	Good evening. Comrade Han, share with me the same fate, so it's my pleasure. President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! The review of the organisation of the implementation of development policies showed the need and direction for the transformation of implementing institutions in the areas of entrepreneurship promotion, technological development, innovation, tourism, internationalisation and foreign direct investment. The Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises provides that the Public Agency for Enterprise and Foreign Agencies, the Public Agency for Technology Development and the Slovenian Tourism Organisation shall be merged into a new agency covering the common area of tourism, foreign investment, technological development, entrepreneurship and internationalisation. By implementing the mission, it will directly contribute to the business performance of the Slovenian economy and improve its competitiveness. By comparing such agencies of some European countries operating in the field of entrepreneurship, innovation, foreign investment and tourism, we find that all areas are united in one place. The pooling of executive agencies will lead to integrated and comprehensive implementation of tasks, greater efficiency in the performance of tasks, greater professional and management autonomy of agencies and greater visibility of the user agency in the area of promoting entrepreneurship, technological development, innovation. The new agency will work in areas such as financial incentives to enterprises, the promotion of the Slovenian economy and Slovenia as a tourist destination, the provision of a favourable support environment, the management of Slovenia's brand, cooperation in the European Union and the international space, thereby integrating it into international development projects and links in areas that will contribute to the development of new policies and instruments for entrepreneurship and innovation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we believe that the new agency will be an effective and successful centre for the promotion of Slovenia, the strategic partner of the Slovenian economy for the marketing and promotion of sales and the general promotion of Slovenia at home and abroad. The entire Slovenian economy will be offered an excellent business platform for attractive and competitive marketing of the Slovenian economy on the global market and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will therefore support the law amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u216	Mr Matjaž Han is also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u217	Good evening again! I see that you women are even more persistent and sustainable than men. Since some of us are already sitting in this National Assembly two days from morning to evening, I would like to be as rational as possible and, on behalf of the Group of Members, I will give my position on all three laws which are in some way substantively linked; namely, the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Support Environment for Entrepreneurship. When we have reviewed all three laws of the Ministry of the Economy, which, of course, aim at bringing together individual public funds and agencies, we believe that, despite the number of articles on smaller changes, it is not a minor change. It is a status transformation with all legal consequences. They may prove to be good, but I am not sure that the proposer, in this case the Government, is now ready for all the questions and all the questions have been drawn up. Only the fact that they claim, on the one hand, that there will be no budgetary implications, but on the other hand, savings due to the optimization of processes – speak from 5 to 10% – and then, on the other hand, between the weaknesses of the merger of agencies and the institution, that there will be a need for additional staff on investments and the provision of budget resources on the special item shows that these solutions are not necessarily the best. Secondly, what bothers us is that the Social Democrats make sense of integrating the WTO into such an organisational structure, not because of integration into the common services, but in terms of ensuring priority. If we know and praise how successful tourism is, then we must also give it the opportunity to continue to develop. We hope that this story will work out well, but the Social Democrats will not oppose the merger of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, the Technology Agency and the public entrepreneurship agencies. However, I hope, Minister, that this merger will help the economy in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u218	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We don't have any amendments. We conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote or we will decide on the bill tomorrow as part of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on facilitating the development of tourism. The proposal was submitted by the Government following a reduced procedure for the consideration of the National Assembly. He's got the word "magic" again. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much, President, for your word. As with the previous law, as with the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism and the next law, I hope that we will be able to deal with it today, i.e. under the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment, in all three laws, it is in fact a matter of the status of the transformation of the three agencies into one joint agency, in short, for a merger. It's an important change, but within the law, I'll say, more editorial than anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u220	Thank you. Economic Committee, Mr Matjaž Han. Yeah, tourism. It's kind of hard to follow. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u221	No, no, but I have to say I don't have a report. At its 13th urgent meeting, the Committee on Economic Affairs also considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. As usual, we invited all the interested ones. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the purpose of the bill is to prepare a legal basis for the merger of the two agencies and the public institution into the new public agency. Since these persons are governed by various laws introduced by the Government in the legislative process, it is therefore important to ensure that all laws are harmonised and that all amendments are applied simultaneously. Therefore, amendments to the coalition were also tabled, and this desire or request of the Legal and Legislative Service was also met. Various opinions were expressed in the debate on the articles of the bill and on the amendments. She pointed out that it was a combination of three organisations implementing measures in the field of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the field of promotion and development of tourism, promoting innovation, competitiveness and foreign investment, and it is therefore important that tourism or the Slovenian tourism organisation in the new agency retain all activities in the field of promotion and development of tourism. In a way, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Economy also promised them this. The opposition has specifically pointed out that there is public doubts as to the meaning of such an association of agencies and the institution, that tourism will, as a result, once again lose its importance and will not be able to perform its functions in the manner set out in the recently adopted strategic documents. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition on its amendment and all articles of the bill. The Committee has ensured consistency with it and has simultaneously implemented amendments to the related proposals of the law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and all the amendments adopted are included.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u222	Thank you. We are going to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u223	Your Honor! Tourism is undoubtedly one of the most promising industries in the world, which has a lot of potential. Although the proposed novel is intended to open up legal possibilities for the integration of three legal persons, namely the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, the Public Agency for Technology Development and the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, we can focus on the tasks and mission of the latter, namely the Slovenian Tourist Organisations, for a short period of time the WTO. As I have pointed out at the outset, tourism is a sector that is in place to pay even more attention in the future. The WTO is one of the most productive public organisations, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the intention of the proposer to remain in the draft law a dictatorship of the national tourism organisation as the newly established agency will carry out all the tasks of the WTO and will also be involved in all international tourism organisations. Although much has been done in recent years in the area of the development of Slovenian tourism and its promotion abroad, it is difficult to say that this is all we are capable of. Despite the economic crisis, there are still areas in the world with a large number of potential tourists, which I can mention as an example of Russia, where Slovenia has been successfully promoted for some time, and the results in the form of an increased number of guests have already been showing up. In this context, it is worth noting that in this year's rebalancing, the resources of the WTO and all other state authorities and implementing institutions have been slightly reduced, as have most national consumers, but the ministry has nevertheless managed to provide an additional tourism promotion programme, which weighs EUR 5 million, in particular through the successful use of European funds. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware of the obligation to our programme plan as well as the coalition contract, with which we have clearly committed ourselves to bringing together those public organisations where it makes sense. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposed merger of Japan, the Public Agency for the Technological Development of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Tourism Organization is a logical consequence of this commitment, which will enable the optimisation of their work, the merger of related activities and greater transparency of operations, which will reduce the costs of the operation of the new agency. All three organisations have at least part of the work that follows the promotion of Slovenia, but since the current cooperation between them is insufficient, several times the results are not optimal. The case, which often happens, is to bring a foreign investor to Slovenia, and then we no longer know what is happening to him, how we can help him to make an investment, and what obstacles he is facing. We are convinced that in these economically more acute situations, a joint, organised and more centralised performance for the promotion purposes of our country will be so much more effective. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the proposed amendment of the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u224	Thank you. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! As already presented in the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for amendments to the Act on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises, the DeSUS Group will support both laws which technically fulfil the purpose of the Government to combine the areas currently carried out by two public agencies under the auspices of one public agency, namely the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment and the Public Agency for Technological Development and the Slovenian Tourist Organisation. Amendments to this Act constitute a legal basis for transferring the tasks currently carried out by the Slovenian Tourism Organisation to management of the newly envisaged public agency. The purpose of this new agency will continue to serve the mission that the Slovenian Tourist Organisation and the two already appointed agencies have so far had. With these changes, as we say, in the DeSUS Group, the new agency will support an effective and successful centre for the promotion of tourism, the strategic partner of the Slovenian economy for the marketing and promotion of sales and the general promotion of Slovenia at home and abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u226	Thank you. New Slovenia and Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u227	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Allow me first to express my real gratitude to our opposition friends, the Social Democrats. For my statistics show that your participation in today's session was the best of all parliamentary groups and you deserve a round of applause, but after the meeting. Now for the serious matter. In New Slovenia we see the tourism industry as an important part of the economy, which, with relatively small financial inputs in the short term, can create many new direct jobs and at least twice as many direct jobs. Tourism is seen as a great opportunity for economic development, preservation of cultural and natural heritage, space, development of roads and rural settlements. In our view, tourism must be given new impetus by linking all players in the market, larger and smaller, by linking different places and events and by maximising the inclusion of guests in the event. That is why, in the Coalition Treaty, we have committed our partners to adopt such solutions as to pursue the goal of increasing competitiveness and the scope of tourism by generating demand for Slovenia as a tourist destination. The Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism introduces wider organisational changes, namely the merger of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment – JAPTI, the Public Agency for the Technological Development of the Republic of Slovenia – TIA, and the Slovenian Tourism Organisation – the WTO into a new public agency that will carry out the professional tasks performed so far by the Slovenian Tourism Organization as a public institution. This merger will eliminate duplication in the work of these institutions and optimize their functioning and allow for closer substantive integration of work processes, which will also reflect a reduction in operating costs. Tourism is people; in the desire that we will all be the best promoters of our country, the MEPs of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u228	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all those who insist! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism opens up legal possibilities for merging agencies or two agencies and institutions into one organisation. In the view of the Government, it is essential that the dictatorship of the national tourism organisation remain in law, as the new agency will also carry out its tasks and participate in all international tourism organisations. It is therefore considered necessary to mention this as an activity in the new agency as well. Due to the preparation of all legal bases and the fact that these persons are born under different laws, a number of amendments to the laws of which the Government is a proponent have been tabled in the legislative procedure. The government must therefore ensure that all legislative proposals are harmonised and that all changes are implemented simultaneously. It is a merger of three organisations implementing measures in the field of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the field of promotion and development of tourism, internationalisation, promotion of innovation, competitiveness and foreign investment, the mission of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation for the promotion of Slovenian tourism abroad, the promotion of sustainable development of tourism and the provision of urgent market support for the Slovenian tourism economy so that it can successfully market the Slovenian tourist offer. In the process of integration, it is very important that tourism or the Slovenian Tourism Organisation in the new agency retain all activities in the field of promotion and development of tourism. Connecting Japan, the TIE and the WTO to the new public agency means simplifying, transparency, efficiency and rationalisation of business, and the effects will also be in reducing costs and increasing foreign direct investment. A single and comprehensive performance will be achieved, which will be more formal, informational and communicationally effective based on a single information system. We support the law and the amendment of the law, according to everything said in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u230	Thank you. In addition, on behalf of the Group of the People's List of Mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u231	It's a good evening for everyone again. Dear colleagues, colleagues, president, minister! The proposed amendment and amendment of the law constitutes a substantive and organisational transformation of the institutions by merging the two public agencies and the institution. By reshaping, it will ensure greater transparency of operations and allow for closer substantive integration of work processes, which will contribute to reducing operating costs. A savings of between 5 % and 10 % shall be estimated at the cost of pooling after optimisation of all processes and personnel resources. The new agency will ensure more efficient and transparent implementation of development policy measures and continuous development of quality services for users and will be the strategic partner of the Slovenian economy for marketing and promoting sales and promotion of Slovenia at home and abroad. Since the main solutions of the association of public agencies and the public institution will eliminate duplication in the work of these institutions and optimize their work and help to rationalise and increase the transparency of public administration and because the merger does not foresee spending of budgetary resources, but will even reduce the cost of operation, we will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u232	Thank you. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members is completed. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the only amendment tabled, which is such that it is difficult for me to imagine any big debate about it. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendment tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on the Supplementary Environment for Entrepreneurship. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government following a reduced procedure. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much, President. The Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act covers both – the merger of the two public funds, i.e. the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development, on the one hand, and the merger of all three agencies, as discussed in the previous two laws, namely the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, the Public Agency for Technology and the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. As with previous laws, it is a legal basis for us to come to these mergers. Operationally, the matter will, of course, be regulated by establishing acts, where matters will be defined in more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u234	Thank you. The mother's working body is the Committee on the Economy. President Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u235	Similarly, the Committee on the Economy, at its 13th emergency meeting, discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. The meetings were attended by the Ministry of Economic Development, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Slovenian Tourist Organization and our Legal and Legal Service. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service. However, the amendments to the bill were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups at Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8 and by the MP of mags. Stanko Stepišnik and mag. Borut Ambrožič to Article 6. In the debate, individual members of the Committee expressed doubts about the meaningful proposed reorganisation and pointed out the possibility of its negative consequences, in particular with regard to the issue of long-term loan contracts, the loss of funds, staff and the costs of the brand of the new Fund. In the context of the debate on Article 6, the amendment's proposer presented the reasons for the amendment to Article 6, which he felt would make more sense to merge the two funds and not to attach one fund to another. Following the discussion, the Committee, with a view to aligning the deadline with the other laws governing the association of institutions, adopted the amendment of the Committee to Article 9 of the draft law. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Members of Stepišnik and Ambrožič. The Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u236	Thank you. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. First, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. All hail well this time, too! This proposal for a law is the last of the three to provide for the restructuring of three public agencies under one and two public funds by connecting each other and operating in the areas of entrepreneurship, tourism, technological development and innovation in the sense of a supportive environment for the needs of the economy. As has already been said, all these laws that we have under consideration in this area relate to the restructuring of implementing organisations from these areas with a view to ensuring more efficient and transparent implementation of development policy measures and the continuous development of quality services for users. The purpose of the proposal for a law currently under consideration is to transform the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development into one that will cover fully the area of support, growth and development of enterprises and entrepreneurship by providing funding resources mainly in the form of financial engineering on the one hand and complementary regional development and rural development on the other. This merger is expected to have a positive impact on public funds and to increase the effectiveness of the Joint Public Fund. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the combined assets of the two current public funds will make it easier and more transparent for businesses to access financial resources. At the same time, a single action in one place, according to our assessment, also means improving access to information on financial incentives for stakeholders and, more importantly, more effective use of the Structural Funds of the European Union is expected. Members and Members of DeSUS support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u238	Thank you. New Slovenia, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The proposed amendment to the Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act is part of a package of laws that need to be amended if we are to lay the groundwork for new organisational structures that will work to promote the competitiveness of entrepreneurship and tourism. Of course, the structures themselves will not be enough, important and most important are people for whom this holiday is likely to be somewhat shorter this year, but not to resent my expectations or demands. According to experts, Slovenia still has a relatively poor support environment for entrepreneurship compared to other countries. By pooling some of the existing agencies and funds, certain synergies are expected, while the current functioning of the public sector will be rationalised, which was also one of the coalition commitments at the beginning of our mandate. However, it should be pointed out that the priority in this law is not only to save, but in particular to optimise organisations that will have to focus their activities on finding solutions to the start of the Slovenian economy. One of the tasks of the new agency and the public fund will certainly be to precisely identify the competitive advantages Slovenia has over other countries and to realise the potential of Slovenia in the field of tourism. The latter can have a major role in solving the economic and financial situation that we have been in for more than three years. It is high time that we also make some structural changes and try to find answers to the challenges posed by the crisis with some new approaches. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect the joint agency and the new public fund to carry out their mission towards comprehensive support for growth and the development of entrepreneurship more easily than ever before, so we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u240	Thank you. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u241	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues you're still here! Furthermore, the position of the SDS Group on the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. The institutions, agencies and funds and other indirect budgetary users are significantly complemented by the activities of the State Administration and are urgently needed for its operation. However, the problem arises if the content of the activities carried out by individual institutions overlaps or is too widespread. There are few such cases, for especially in recent years such institutions have been set up quite generously. However, in the context of the reorganisation of state and public administration, as we have already heard many times today, the Government is proposing a law that will primarily provide a legal basis for the transformation of three agencies and two public funds into a single public fund and a single public agency. Surely, each of these agencies or funds could find reasons for their independence. Of course, there are still more reasons for their association. These are institutions that carry out an equivalent or similar activity and will be brought together, as we have already heard, synergistic effects, especially for businesses, and thus for their users, at the same time will be lower costs for the country on the other hand. By pooling the two funds, a single point will be established to obtain favourable financial resources and by pooling the agencies will ensure greater transparency of operation and efficiency of operations. Because we believe that the positive effects on integration are great, we will support the proposed law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u242	Thank you. And only Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. And then we're almost done for today. If it's even worth breaking up by morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Your Honor! In addition to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship, several proposals for laws relating to the preparation of legal bases for the merger of two funds, namely the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development, and the merger of two agencies, namely the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, and the Public Agency for Technological Development and the Public Institute, the Slovenian Tourist Organisation, into the new public agency. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the merger proposal, as we believe it is about adapting the implementing institutions to the business sector and at the same time linking resources and information into a single supply in this area. In this way, a single point will be established to obtain favourable financial resources for the development of entrepreneurship or for regional development, which we find very positive and, above all, practical. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we count that pooling funds and agencies will lead to greater efficiency and transparency of operation, reduced operating costs and reduced public financial expenditure. There will be a stronger public institution that will better compete for market assets and become a stronger partner to the banking system. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that Slovenian entrepreneurship needs this, so we will support the proposed novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-17-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u244	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We don't have any amendments, so we're closing another hearing. The third reading or decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now, do we want to surprise our colleagues and just keep going, and by 8:00 tomorrow morning, when we get here, we're done, done? I'm saying, well, okay, there won't be any big surprises for my colleagues in the morning. I interrupt this point, interrupt this meeting at this point and continue tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. with the 2nd item of the agenda, with the consideration of constitutional change – State Council. Good night!
