ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished by the representative of the Council of State! I begin the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended: Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Masha Kociper, mag. Melita Župevc, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Bevk is here and Mrs Marija Plevčak. I invited representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to both agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 19 July 2012, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First, the decision-making and consideration of the proposal for an extension of the agenda. The Government has submitted a proposal for the appointment of the Acting President of the Administration and the Acting Member of the Management Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. You've received an extension proposal on the bench. The mother’s working body has also begun to address this point, but it has not yet finished as far as I am aware. There are no government representatives among us. Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak on the subject of this enlargement? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the enlargement of the agenda. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The national assembly will consider the voting enlargement as the 3rd item of the agenda. We are now moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an extension just adopted. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO RECOMMEND THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE LOTTERY OF SLOVENIA LAW At its 38th extraordinary meeting, on 18 July 2012, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on this law. To explain the request of the Council of State, I now give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Anton Persak. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije appeared, disputes about this proposal of the law, including the controversy within the sport sphere, were immediately raised. The competent commission of the Council of State has adopted a position, on the basis of these many controversial issues, with which it has proposed or called all the factors, saying, the Government, as a bill-maker and as a civil sphere, to try to reach the highest possible degree of agreement in the dialogue on the solutions proposed in the law. These solutions should be such that political arbitration or political decision on what is decided in the Slovenia Sports Foundation, which is essentially the subject of this law, will not be possible. And that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia should not be excluded from this decision as one of the most important factors in the field of sport, as it could be concluded by the reactions. When the law was passed, the Commission and the Council of State fully assessed that these expectations had not been met in some way. The reason why the National Assembly should reconsider this law and perhaps allow itself another in-depth debate on the subject covered by this law is in particular in three, four articles or solutions in this law. First of all, it is Article 1 which speaks of what they are called and how many representatives of sport should be in the Sports Foundation Council. Let me immediately say that the Council of State also has absolutely no doubts about the proposed composition of this Council. On the contrary, it seems to us that this is even good, as it is envisaged, that individual sports sectors will be represented in the world afterwards. Controversial or contradictory are the solutions for the appointment of this world. In particular, the article ensures that these representatives are to elect individual sports spheres directly and, on the other hand, it refers to the role of the sport council's proponent at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the choice and the fact that the list proposalr is this professional council, which appears to be contradictory. The following is Article 2 of the Act, which deals with the exclusion of individual possible members of the Council. This is mainly two indents. One is, however, one of these or some other, such as it has been in the law so far, which excludes the responsible persons or holders of the powers of individual sports associations, which seems excessively and in some way conflicted with the principle of proportionality for the exclusion of individual persons or concerns in some way the constitutional rights of those potential candidates, since there is always an option, even if they were members, that when directly voted on their organisation, they should be excluded. The second is to some extent, in our opinion, a senseless requirement that all potential or potential shareholders of the Lottery of Slovenia, who would have 1% or more of the assets of the Lottery of Slovenia, be eliminated. It is that such assets are 10% and that there is essentially no causal link between the Lottery and the Sports Foundation, except that Lottery is obliged to provide funds to the Sport Foundation. Finally, it is a problem to abolish the professional function of the Director and to delegate these powers on the one hand to the President of the Council, which is problematic in our view from the point of view of who will want to do so voluntarily and in the other part of the transfer to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u3	Thank you. The State Council's request for re-decision was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a mother's labour force. In order to present the report to the committee, I give the floor to the mags. Branku Grimes, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth! The Committee considered the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia today, five minutes after the meeting. The debate was moderately broad, and we talked about the points already presented by the proposer, namely, the representative of the Council of State. The greatest controversy has been with regard to the situation or the change and termination of the Director's function, with regard to the different treatment of individual institutions that propose their candidates, as well as with regard to concerns that are in some way compatible with the European directives on the prevention of conflict of interest and ultimately with regard to individual appointments or with the situation that has arisen on the one hand with the new proposal, which has been made clear that it can also bring systemic corruption and, on the other hand, with the counter argument that the extremely long term mandates or repeated mandates of one and the same already almost irreplaceable persons in fact already represent, in themselves, systemic corruption because of their outstanding political history, in certain cases also a strong politicisation of the sport sphere, which is not in the interest of sport, the general public, in the interest of sportsmen and Slovenia as a whole. Finally, the vote to decide that the law was appropriate, 10 votes in favour and 6 against, which means that the absolute majority of all members and members of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth have assessed that the law is appropriate and we propose to the National Assembly that it be adopted again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u5	Thank you. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mrs Mojci Škrinjar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Government confirms [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u7	I'm asking you to stand up and stand at the speaker's desk. It's a habit we have here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. The government confirms that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is an important and useful step in democratising Slovenian sport. The law requires direct sports stakeholders to elect their representatives to the Sport Foundation Council after a democratic process on open lists. The Council of State objected to this by arguing that the Council of Experts for Sport, appointed by the Ministry, would elect these members of the Foundation Council. This is not true, since the amendment clearly lays down procedures and entrusts the professional sport council only with the task of confirming the outcome of democratically held elections, but does not give it any authority to change the names or otherwise intervene in the composition of the foundation's council. The Council of Experts therefore assumes the role that the electoral commission plays in the elections, that is to say, to verify that the elections were held in accordance with the legislation in force. This novel strengthens the autonomy of Slovenian sport, as 14 members of the Seventeenth Council of Foundations will be directly elected by participants in sport. Of these, 10 members will be elected on the proposal of national sports associations, i.e. associations of individual sports, collective sports, recreational sports and sports industries that are not included in the Olympic Games programme. Two members will be elected on the proposal of municipal sports associations, one member on the proposal of athletes and one member on the proposal of sports trainers and other sports professionals. One member will be appointed to the Council of the Foundation by the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and one member will be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. The Government rejects the objection provided that they cannot be members of the Sport Foundation Sports Council of the responsible person or representatives of the receiving organisations. It is a fundamental provision that guarantees equality in decision-making and impartiality, and it has previously eliminated the suspicions of potential corrupt links in the allocation of funds. Furthermore, the Government also rejects the responses to sports by abolishing the position of Director of the Sport Foundation and transferring administrative work to the structure of the Ministry. It is only administrative transactions that do not give the Ministry any possibility of discretionary intervention, allocation of funds and the operation of foundations at all, but merely impose administrative tasks on it. This prevents duplication and contributes to measures to remedy public finances by means of savings, without in any way damaging Slovenian sport, which will continue to be allocated all the funds that the Foundation will receive from the Lottery of Slovenia. In the light of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the reasons set out in the explanatory memorandum for the re-decision on the law which is not justified and the National Assembly propose that, when re-decision is taken, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u9	Thank you. Members' groups are next. First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia requires direct stakeholders to elect their representatives to the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in a democratic manner. The Council of State objected to the request for re-decision on the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije. The expert council appointed by the Ministry will, in their opinion, elect members to the foundation's world. These statements are not true, since the amendment clearly sets out the procedures and the task of the expert council is only to confirm the outcome of the elections or to verify that the elections took place in accordance with the applicable legislation. In no way does the amendment of the law give the professional world the authority to intervene in any way in the composition of the foundation’s world. In its request, the Council of State also objects to the provision of Article 2 of the proposal for a law whereby members of the Board of the Foundation of the Responsible Person or Agents in the Organisations receiving the Foundation’s funds and persons holding more than 1% of the capital or management or voting rights in the Lottery of Slovenia may not be members of the Board of the Foundation. In our view, this is a fundamental provision that guarantees equality and impartiality in decision-making, while at the same time eliminating the suspicions of potential corrupt links in the allocation of funds. In the Parliamentary Group, we believe that there are also unsubstantiated discussions on the maintenance of sport by abolishing the position of Director of the Sports Foundation and transferring administrative work to the Sports Directorate. It is only an administrative intervention that does not give the Ministry any opportunity to intervene in the allocation of funds and the operation of the Sports Foundation. In the light of all that is stated in the Group of the National Gazette, we believe that the request of the Council of State is unfounded, so we will re- back up the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished representative of the Council of State, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the SLS Group, we accept the request of the State Council for re-decision on the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia with great regret. In our view, this decision unfortunately reinforces the fact that decisions in the State Council are increasingly taken primarily on the basis of an argument of power, especially political power, not on the basis of the power of argument. And in this light, I must admit that I regret quite a bit the outcome of yesterday's vote on the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure. Let me start by saying that Members of the Slovenian People's Party will once again support the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, because we believe that it is by this very law that the existing political links, which are hidden under the concept of civil society, are being excluded from sport, and that decision-making of sport funds is given to sports organisations directly. But obviously maintaining the status quo has already become a Slovenian national sport, represented by a large number of organisations and institutions of so-called civil society. Let me just say one more thing about the marriage itself. It is obvious that this bill supports the financing of sport in our country, that the novel completely ignores deserving sports workers, that it excludes all civil society from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and, in any case, it does not. A new Law on Property Conversion creates a more balanced, transparent and far more democratic way of selecting members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, which decides to allocate funds to those sports organisations, athletes and trainers, which have actually set up the Foundation. In addition, the terms of non-compatibilities of members of the Foundation Council are amended by this Act and it is also laid down that the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport will carry out administrative tasks for the Foundation, and that a more balanced composition of the Board of Appeal is envisaged. There is no doubt a new way of appointing national and municipal sports associations and athletes and trainers or sports professionals themselves to elect 14 members of the Council of the Foundation, which the Council of the Government of Sport will then forward to the appointment of the National Assembly, much more balanced and democratic than is the current way. This will lead to better national sports links, as their voice will be heard and in fact something will apply. Not least, most of these national sports associations agree with this law. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will once again support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u13	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u14	Hello, Mr President, Ministry representative, representatives from the Council of State, and also Members and Members of Parliament! In deciding again on the proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia, the position of the DeSUS Group is the same as that presented at the 5th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, so we will also support the law in this vote. The aim of the proposer of this novel is to achieve a higher degree of democracy in the design and composition of the body that decides on the allocation of funds received from concession fees from gambling and is intended for sports spheres. This will allow for direct elections of candidates to be proposed for this purpose in the election of each national sports association, municipal sports associations, athletes, sports coaches and sports professionals. With this, we believe that only those representing the wider interest of sport will be elected or appointed to the Sport Foundation Council, as they will have the most words on the basis of this law. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that this will bring together the Council of the Sport Foundation in the manner proposed in the law to make the distribution of money in sport more transparent, fairer and truly intended to enable optimal conditions for the development of quality sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u15	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! The proposed amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia will return to national sports associations the possibility of self-determination on the distribution of money, which is primarily intended for sport. In New Slovenia, we strongly welcome the fact that, from now on, they will be able to propose to the Sport Foundation of their representative especially those organisations for which funding was originally established, namely national sports associations, sports associations of municipalities, athletes, trainers and other professionals in sport. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that it is high time that a transparent system is also established in the area of financing sport, which will clearly define the rights and duties of the participants. Slovenia has repeatedly proven that we are a nation of athletes, by the number of recreational and also top athletes who are in the highest places in international competitions. At the same time, athletes are great ambassadors of Slovenia, our identities and, as a result, our economy. It is therefore appropriate that they may decide on the allocation of the funds to which they are intended to be allocated in the relevant bodies. For all of this we will re-support this law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u17	On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! The changes and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia involve too much concentration of power in deciding on the allocation of funds, at the Ministry. Therefore, the presence of risk to the existence of systemic corruption is extremely high. This has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service or even more by the Commission to prevent corruption. The State Council has given a veto that should be taken into account. It has been recognised that it is not useful for sport to agree between the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, as the Ministry is too clearly interfering with the composition of the Sports Foundation Council and somehow ignoring the Olympic Committees. In the parliamentary group, we will vote against the law for the reasons we have pointed out in the adoption of the law. Our warning is aimed at preventing the politicization of sport. The proposed bill does not provide better solutions than the existing one, on the contrary, rather than offering greater transparency and public participation in the distribution of funds, as has been said today, it concentrates power in the ministry. And where there is power, there is also the power to decide and divide. Finally, much has been said about the professional sports council, which is called the government on a proposal from the Ministry and of course appoints the people who are closer to it. It is particularly important to note that two different solutions are proposed in the law to the management of two foundations, FIHO, which will have a professional director and will not have any employees in the Ministry, such as social, work and social affairs, and the FSO, where the management of the foundation will be carried out by the President of the Council in a non-professional manner, and the professional services will be at the Ministry, which will thus have a major impact on the preparation of the professional basis for members of the Council who carry out their work with a lover. The Law-Legal Service highlighted the problem of the move of workers from the Sport Foundation to the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. The amendment also prevents individuals in our country from being appointed to the world of the Foundation. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, this doctrine is constitutionally controversial. The transfer of directorship to non-professional president in 2007 is precisely because it is an important function because there is a large share of funds and the responsibility is so much greater, he said the function should be professionalised and today this is taken away. The Anti-Corruption Commission drew attention to the possibility of systemic corruption and other illegal and unethical practices as they interfered with the constitutional right to appeal. The Commission therefore proposes to the National Assembly and the Government that the competent ministries and professional services carry out an actual assessment of the situation and, on the basis of this, draw up a comprehensive proposal for a recast of the law which would limit the risks exposed. We must adopt such laws in the National Assembly, where there will be no doubt about the constitutionality of the law. It is therefore up to us, respected colleagues and colleagues, to reject such a law when it arises and to make it a decision or a change and to take the time not to act unjustly by adopting the law. Therefore, once again, in the Group of Positive Slovenia we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u19	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Mateja Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! Today in the National Assembly, we are again deciding on the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia, as the State Council voted veto on this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we regret that the State Council has stood up for the interests and structures that have been clear in the financial structures dedicated to Slovenian sport for decades, which is certainly not in the interest of athletes. We have already presented the position of our parliamentary group at the regular meeting of the National Assembly last week and it has not changed until today. We fully support changes in the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we are aware that changes are necessary and also necessary. This law does not take anything away from Slovenian sport and Slovenian athletes, but it provides a much more democratic way of electing members to the Council of the Foundation and making more equitable allocations of funds. In fact, the changes in the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations allow for open lists of candidates and direct elections to be decided by athletes, members of sports associations and experts who enjoy the greatest confidence through direct elections. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also welcome the rationalisation in terms of the reduction of administrative costs and the non-professional performance of the presidency of the Foundation Council, the incompatibilities of the members of the Foundation Council, and in particular the determination of the mandate of the members of the body which decides on complaints against the decisions of the Foundation Council, since it has not been established previously. We have already stressed in our regular session, and today we stress once again that the proposal does not exclude anyone from the law. On the contrary, these changes will actually bring the law closer to sports and sports users, increase democracy and prevent a monopoly or conflict of interest within the foundation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will once again support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u21	Thank you. Even on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Representative of the Council of State, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! We are not discussing the Slovenian State Holding today, but we will establish "Slovenian State Sports Holding" by approving this law. On a proposal from the law, the Council of State voted in favour of the veto, which it explained on five sides. A fundamental observation of the law, to which we also keep reminding the Social Democrats, is that it does not comply with the objectives and purposes with which the Slovenian public constantly deceives the competent ministry. The legal text does not give national sports associations the opportunity to propose directly to the members of the Foundation's Council, since the proposal will be submitted to the National Assembly for decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for sport and not by national sports associations. If the government had sincere intentions, the sports unions of their candidates for members of the world would have proposed themselves without a double political filter. Therefore, the emphasis on the alleged greater powers of sports associations can be referred to as a cheap demagogy, which serves to conceal the real intentions of the Government in the field of sport. And there are two reasons he's in a hurry to accept this novel. The first is the government's obvious intention to support Slovenian sport. Fearing the sport sphere by failing to complete the competition for sports sector schools and information on the lack of funding for top athletes, state administration employees, the cleaning of the Sports Council, the negotiation of parallel organisation of the Olympic Committee, the association of sports associations, the reduction of funds accompanied by cynical comments and the final adoption of this novel are steps towards sustaining Slovenian sport. The second reason for the adoption of the novel is the legalisation of the obvious conflict of interest created by the appointment of the Director of FŠO at the same time as the Director of the Directorate for Sport, to whom the Anti-Corruption Commission has also pointed. The latter points to the demeaning role of the National Assembly, which, I state, "has only been placed in a position to legalise back what the executive branch has already decided". At the same time, with the reconfirmation of the novel, the director's amphibian will be liable for any negative report by the Court of Auditors. The work of the Director is also to be discussed by the Foundation Council on 20 August. This will probably not be necessary after today's re-voting. However, what should be of particular concern to us is that the drafter of the law has not always tried or tried to respond to the Commission's serious warnings to prevent corruption about, again, the "systemic risk in the functioning of the rule of law", the end of the line, in particular with arrogant silence, the position of the Law-Legal Service has been rejected. It noted, inter alia, that the arrangements deviate from those comparable to those of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. As the reasons for the distinction are not clearly explained by the ZPS, it is recalled that it is not possible to assess compliance with the law requiring equality before the law or to assess the proportionality of such distinction. It further points out that the solution, when the re-decision of the FSO is also final, does not comply with the rules of the general administrative procedure. At the same time, this is an infringement of the constitutional right to appeal, which is not duly substantiated. Finally, the transition of employees from the foundation to the Ministry without a public tender is not possible, according to the ZPS, or should be regulated by appropriate legislative additions, which the coalition has not done at least once. Therefore, the question arises whether they will hire these people without an adequate legal basis, or whether they will use the bill to clean up the official work of the Sports Organisation Foundation, as a matter of urgency. What the Social Democrats are particularly concerned about in re-decision on the amendment of the law is that we remain unresponsive to warnings from both the anti-corruption commission and the Court of Auditors, not least in the sports sphere. Everything's fine and fine if there's only enough votes in the coalition. Isn't that right, Your Honor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u23	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, which is 5 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL LAW. Here, too, we have the request of the State Council. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Peter Vrisk to explain the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! It's not very popular to come here with a proposal for veto to a certain law. Nor is it popular to defend certain matters which in some way burden Slovenian citizens, even in this difficult economic situation. However, it is necessary to know that the agricultural land is generally good not only for farmers but also for every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important to know that in Europe we are the last place among all countries, how many square metres of land we have per capita. It is important to know that self-sustainment is becoming increasingly important not only in the Slovenian space, but also in the wider European and global space. The food needs are increasing, and in recent years we have somehow felt that everything that is cheap can be bought outside the borders of Slovenia will surely come to an end in the near future. All are probably aware that China is buying millions and millions of hectares of land in Africa, that land and clean drinking water are becoming strategic raw materials. And if, in Slovenia, where we are actually completely on the tail with the earth, we have to make sure that the agricultural land is no longer built. Among the advocates of this amendment of the law we have heard various arguments as to the problem for young families, for additional burdens for those who want to fence even for business purposes, but I think we all know that there are thousands and thousands of dwellings in this Slovenian space that are not inhabited, that there are huge areas of business space that are not occupied, and that many of the agricultural land that is still used for agricultural land has already been changed, so I think that these needs have been met for a number of years in advance. The problem is that, of course, this financial benefit is not only what protects the agricultural land – we are aware of it – but it is certainly one of the most effective instruments. We are also disturbed by the fact that NGOs have not been invited to this debate or that all NGOs in the field of agriculture and environmental protection have opposed such a change and have not been taken into account. I am aware that those who are here, to make political decisions, of course you have your problems, your affairs to follow, but in such an important matter as the agricultural land, I think that it is also necessary to cross political perspectives and look at the substance as it is, so that the agricultural land in the Slovenian space does not shrink anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u25	Thank you. The request of the State Council was addressed as the working body by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u26	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State and co-worker, nice greeting! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, at today's 12th urgent meeting, considered the requirement of the Council of State that the National Assembly should once again decide on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands, as tabled by the Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Jozet Tank, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 5th session. 7th this year. The committee was attended by State Councillor Peter Vrisk, representative of the proponents, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, Mrs Marjeta Petrlin, and representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which found no error, and the opinion of the Government, which agreed that the law was once again supported in the re-decision. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council on the presentation of the re-decision requirement on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands stressed that the State Council, at its 38th extraordinary meeting at the time of its consideration of the Act, had adopted a request that the National Assembly should decide again on the law. The main indication of the law adopted is that the only tool to protect the best agricultural land from unsustainable construction is lost due to a drastic reduction in compensation resulting from the change of destination, thereby endangering agricultural land for the purpose of food security. The lower compensation, according to the State Council, also means a loss of an important financial resource for the implementation of agricultural policy measures. In an additional explanation, he called on the members of the committee to support the law, since the law adopted by the National Assembly is significantly different from the original text, since it preserves compensation, which is now significantly lower. In addition, compensation for the change of destination, which was non-lifely high, which also led to the amendment of the legislation in force, will be administered only from the floor area and not more than the whole parcel. The representative of the Government stressed that while the Government agreed that compensation was an important tool for protecting agricultural land, as it intended to discourage construction on agricultural land with the greatest potential for production, if construction was to take place, compensation was a source of resources for the establishment of other agricultural land with the same production potential. However, the Government does not agree that compensation is the only instrument for the protection of agricultural land, since the protection of agricultural land is limited to spatial land and also to various permits. The Government supports the new compensation regime for the conditions and method of dosing and that the floor area is no longer measured from the whole parcel, which is the disadvantage of the current regime. It also supports the solution that compensation should not be measured for less-quality agricultural land and that compensation should be reduced. In the debate, most members supported the adoption of the law and rejected the State Council's arguments. A disagreement was expressed with the State Council’s claim that compensation was the only instrument for land insurance. The members of the committee also call on the Ministry to do so when the municipalities prepare their spatial plans in cooperation with the agricultural profession and not in the manner in which Natura 2000 was established. However, members of the committee who oppose the law and support the request of the Council of State expressed the belief that the law raises more issues than it solves, and in particular does not address the comprehensive issue of agricultural land from the point of view of food production and, on the other hand, the questions from the buildings which have already been introduced into the premises. The law should be the result of a compromise between needs, wishes and opportunities and take into account the development potential of the country. Some members of the Committee also objected to the law for formal reasons because they felt that the procedures for drafting the bill were untransparent, as the Commission had also pointed out for the prevention of corruption, and they were carried out without the cooperation of the professional public, who also opposed the law, as the Ombudsman had also pointed out. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of the votes of all members — 10 for, 1 against —: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. The opinion of the Government will be presented by the Secretary of State Mrs Marjeta Petrlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees that compensation is an important instrument for the protection of agricultural land, it is intended to deter construction on agricultural land, especially those with the highest production potential. However, if construction is already under way, compensation is a source of resources for the establishment of other agricultural land with the same production potential. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree, however, that compensation is the only instrument for the protection of agricultural land. The protection of agricultural land is intended for both limited spatial planning or alteration of the intended use of agricultural land as well as agricultural policy measures, while agricultural land is also protected by limited agricultural transport. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the new compensation regime regarding the conditions and method of dosing. Following the adoption of the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, compensation shall be deducted from the floor area and no more from the whole parcel, which is the disadvantage of the current regime. It also supports the solution that compensation should not be measured for less-quality agricultural land and that compensation should be reduced. Indemnities will continue to be collected on the specific budget line and will be allocated to agricultural policy measures, which can also be financed from other sources. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also stands in the position that, in order to ensure self-sustainment in the Republic of Slovenia, a regime for the permanent protection of agricultural land should be established as soon as possible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act in Redecision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u29	Thank you. I also give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank, as a representative of the bill-makers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! Last year, a new tax was introduced in the new law on uncharted building sites. This newly introduced tax is mainly due to the disproportionate burden of intervention on the wallless building site of a large cost to investors, including those who build agricultural buildings. The law burdened the entire area affected by the intervention, irrespective of the actual scope of the intervention and the impact of the object on the surface, on the environment. The problem, which occurs mainly in rural areas, particularly in areas that are extremely degressive, exposed to blackmail and where there is no possibility of development, is the price of the best agricultural land half-euro or the euro per square metre, and the premium of construction work up to EUR 25 per square metre, which means that the tax on changing destination is up to 50 times higher than the price of the land itself. Perhaps this tax is even higher than the value of the entire household. For urban settlements, this is a minor problem because land prices are moving between €50 and €300 per square meter, and this premium of up to €25 represents only a few percent of the additional price. Those who can afford such a costly land do not in fact represent any cost, but the problem is in rural areas, the problem is in other social categories and the problem is investors who first solve their housing problem. And we can only find that, in some cases, the price of land, together with the project and payment of the municipal contribution and works of construction, is lower than that change in the destination of the agricultural land. In Austria, where environmental protection and environmental relations are probably at a much higher level than ours, municipally equipped building land is available for less than EUR 20, and this does not cover the cost of changing the destination of agricultural land. Therefore, it is no wonder that young families from northern border areas are also moving to Austria. Unbuilt building land already burdens the taxes on uncharted buildings, but if the owner wants to build on this land, but this tax has to be paid and this has to be replaced by a change in the purpose of the building’s land, it seems to me that this is a perverse logic. I wonder what it holds, in fact, whether these same building plots have the status of building plots or are agricultural land. If a change of destination is to be paid, this should probably be the case when the Minister signs that the agricultural land in the spatial plan is to be converted into building plots. Some, or even most, of the agricultural land, have been granted the status of buildings since 1985. At that time, many lands, in fact the worst agricultural land, were identified as the best, since this was then a condition for the acquisition of funds for the execution of agricultural operations for comassation, hydromeliorations, agromeliorations. However, it must be noted that unfortunately, the crisis of socialism has not enabled almost any agricultural operation, and the status of these lands has remained and are still identified as the best. Unfortunately, all we can do to make this change is support speculators with agricultural land, but that is not the case. Speculators earned it when agricultural land couldn't turn into a building until a real buyer showed up. We have a great deal of these cases in the vicinity. As far as the response of the profession is concerned. When agricultural land was transformed into a building in Ljubljana, there was no response, no response, no chamber, no deadline was shaken, and three quarters of the converted agricultural land was identified as the best agricultural land in Ljubljana Municipality. However, the claim that high compensation is the only tool for protecting agricultural land, what is stated in the Committee's report and what was also the claim of the Commission of the State Council and the Council of State, is certainly not true, since there are many better tools for protecting the best agricultural land than compensation – especially the condition of production and, of course, the shakes the minister's hand to sign the amendment of spatial acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. It is now the turn of the parliamentary group. First of all, Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! As we all know, the main purpose of the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act is to substantially reduce compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, which was reintroduced by the extensive amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act a year ago. I say again because we knew a similar instrument until 2003, when the compensation, with the amendment of the building law, which went into the agricultural land law, was abolished without concrete reasons. At that time, there were no petitions, protests and threatening letters from individuals and non-governmental organisations fighting the abolition of compensation, as is the case today. Not even the State Council. Without compensation for the change of destination, we lived this way until last May. I guess I don't have to point out that it was during this period that the highest quality agricultural land was lost, because this was a period of intensive investment, that highways, shopping centres, industrial zones, which are now mostly empty, grew like mushrooms after the rain, all on the best land. However, the State and the municipalities, at least on the basis of compensations which would constitute a source for the establishment of new agricultural areas, did not have any of these. Shortly after the imposition of the compensation last year, it appeared that compensation in addition to the already tight economic situation was a key reason for the decline in the volume of investments, as it also reached land which was for the intended use of the building and for the actual use of agricultural land, which resulted in cases of astronomical compensation on land that had been identified as building land in spatial plans for decades. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group last fall, we prepared and tabled an amendment to the law, by which we wanted to reduce compensation by about 80%, but the legislative process due to the extraordinary national elections was concluded prematurely. At this point, it is worth mentioning that the competent commission of the State Council has just supported our proposal by explaining that compensation as an important instrument for the protection of agricultural land is not being abolished but is only decreasing. The composition of the commission and the world is identical today. Understand who can. Shortly after the appointment of the Government, we, together with experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, upgraded our initial bill proposal in the spirit of the coalition treaty. We have proposed compensation for agricultural land, which does not represent the potential for agricultural production up to 40, and the preservation of compensation for the highest quality agricultural land while changing the method of determining the compensation in order to make it dependent on the surface of the building. Similar arrangements were included under the amendments in the adopted law: the removal of compensation for agricultural land of lower quality to a rating of 50, the preservation of compensation on the highest quality agricultural land and the fixing of compensation on the basis of the building's surface, making investors significantly burdensome. Let me point out that compensation on the best agricultural land for an average large residential house will still be high enough to send the investor to a lower quality land. Specifically, for 200 square metres of floor area of the facility, the compensation will be 4 000 euros, and for a thousand square metres the large production hall will be 20,000 euros. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that changes to the Agricultural Lands Act will not cause harm to the apocalyptic dimensions, as the State Council claims. It should be borne in mind that the pressure on agricultural land has already been reduced by the imposition of an additional profit tax due to the change in the destination of land established by the adoption of the ZUJF. The additional security guard will also be able to provide for a mandatory duty on non-painted building plots. Therefore, the fear of defeating agricultural land by implementing the proposed novel is superfluous. But I call from this city all those who are filled with the mouth of the food security of Slovenia to immediately find a buyer for Slovenian potatoes, which is still in the country and cannot be sold at all. For these reasons, we will once again support the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act in the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u33	On behalf of the DeSUS mag Group. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The legal arrangement of compensation for the change in the purpose of agricultural land has raised huge amounts of dust in both the professional and lay public. The fact is that last year's adopted solution, which provided for payment in some cases of enormous compensation, produced exactly the opposite effect: inhibition of investors. We have set the damages too high and the final calculations have surprised not only investors but also those responsible at the Ministry. This has been the case for young families to have to pay for damages of 10 or more euros before they even started building a new home. The proposalers have made this a non-chalant denial, arguing that no serious analysis has been carried out. Each individual, as skilled as basic calculation, is able to calculate this amount, so the arguments of the State Council are completely attracted to hair. We agree that the protection of the best agricultural land must be insisted upon. There is also concern about the percentages of self-sustainment that are even more at the forefront in these critical times. However, according to our assessment, it is necessary to find a medium path that will allow investors to make investments while protecting the best agricultural land. And this law includes this middle way in a perfectly appropriate way. That is why we have supported the law in the DeSUS Group, and for this reason we support it now. At the same time, in the DeSUS Group, we expect to join the legal establishment of a cadastral of permanently protected agricultural land in a short time, which we believe is the only right way to protect the best agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u35	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u36	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, the representative of the Council of State, welcome! At the first reading of this law in the National Assembly, the possibility of re-decision on this subject has proved real. We will also support the novel in Novi Slovenija by re-declaring the Agricultural Lands Act. In New Slovenia, we believe that compensation for the change of destination does not in itself save agricultural land, but at least it is symbolically good if they remain but less radical than they were introduced by the current law. Last year, the adopted law does not protect agricultural land, but it protects, above all, merchants with land, who in the past have earned well with this change of destination, and accounts should be paid today by innocent investors, many of whom are young. With the amendment of the law, we will allow for a better rural population, because the rural population is getting older even faster than elsewhere, even because in fact young people are leaving rural areas. But we need them on the ground, where these agricultural lands will be cultivated, otherwise such quality land will be their own purpose. On the other hand, we should allow investors to create new jobs, turn on the green light for investment, so that not only in the countryside around Ljubljana will new jobs be created, and this will somehow ensure rural settlement. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the best agricultural land must be protected, and this can only be done with large or high compensations. Preservation of first-class agricultural land and rural areas is a much more complex challenge. This would best be resolved by a special regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would establish permanently protected agricultural land. In anticipation of the broader systemic solutions in this area that the Ministry has already announced, we will, as I mentioned at the outset, re-support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u37	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u38	Good-bye, Your Honor! The proposed law is intended to abolish the institution of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land introduced by the 2011 Law on Agricultural Lands. In Positive Slovenia, we do not agree with the allegations that by reducing compensation we will relieve the Slovenian economy and increase its competitiveness, encourage it, especially in construction. More than land prices are problematic long-term spatial planning procedures, credit crunches, lack of investment. The claim that the payment of the change of destination has stopped the development of the economy is not supported by any verified data. Thus, the aim of compensation is not to hinder or even prevent investment, but rather to direct construction to less-quality land. In Positive Slovenia, we welcome the ruling coalition's decision that compensation for the protection of agricultural land remains. Members of the ruling coalition seem to have only come to the realization that it is a matter of natural goods given to a limited extent and cannot be replaced, so effective measures must be put in place for the best agricultural land to protect them. In view of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment's announcement that we should prepare a new proposal for amendments to the law in the autumn, we do not think it makes sense for the National Assembly to adopt a new law, which we will, as it appears, amend again. It would be more reasonable to leave this issue to the Government, as it will include its professional services, Slovenian expertise, local communities and NGOs in the process. This would also allow for an expert and broad public debate on possible compromise and comprehensive solutions. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we will not support the bill and will abstain. And we really don't understand why the law is fast and urgent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u39	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Last year a novel on agricultural land was adopted. The important provisions of this amendment relate to the introduction of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. After the current law, each investor must pay up to EUR 25 per square metre of land already covered by the building permit before obtaining the building permit. The amounts are reaching unacceptable heights. Today’s re-decision on compensation is a reasonable reduction. And from now on, they'll only be bound to land above 50. From now on, compensation will only be paid from the floor of the planned facility and not for the whole lot. Our aim in amending the law is clear – to achieve a satisfactory high level of consensus among all those who co-decision in any way on everything relating to Slovenian agricultural land and its protection, on the one hand, and on the other hand all those potential investors that are now being rejected by the current legislation on any such investment. It is essential to act as a safeguard much earlier, but not when spatial acts are already adopted and very precisely defined in them walled and uninhabited parcels. It's too late at the time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are always committed to the permanent protection of the best agricultural land, because we are very well aware of their importance. We welcome the Minister's announcement that we will be amending the law already in the autumn, which will be the basis for the establishment of a cadastral of permanently protected land. We expect an in-depth debate, alignment with local communities and expertise. Today, because of the veto of the State Council, we are once again deciding whether we will reasonably reduce compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. I believe that policy is uniform in this law, that compensations, which amount to 30,000 euros and more for a single-family house, are non-life. In order to ensure equality, the law also allows investors who have already paid compensation under the current law to apply within 6 months for a refund of the difference between the current law and the law that we reaffirm today. Honourable Members, honourable Members, this law is the product of a compromise between the profession, politics and the public concerned. We will also support the law in our parliamentary group today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u41	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u42	Once again, the President, once again, greetings from Members and Members, Secretary of State and her co-worker, a nice greeting! We will not support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. This law is opposed by more or less the entire Slovenian profession, not only agricultural, also spatial and environmental, but rather by all NGOs, not only agricultural, but also environmental and spatial. In the first place, the Anti-Corruption Commission drew attention to this law due to the high risk of corruption, the lack of transparency in reception and the high interest in the background. The Ombudsman warned of the danger of this law. And I could keep listing it. What I am pleased to hear from you, honourable Members, is that you all understand that agricultural land must be protected, at least here we are united. What we do not understand is that some do not understand that agricultural land must be protected in two ways at the same time. The first way is formal, through the establishment of different permits, through the establishment of a cadastral of permanent agricultural land, which is already imposed by the current law, but in a way that will not be adopted again, as was the case in Slovenia Natura 2000, where other professions have not been taken into account and are now causing significantly more problems than it should have been and the country is even able to transport them. I am pleased that permanent agricultural land will be established. However, I hope you will not make a mistake or make it because you are already announcing it in some way, but if you have listened to the opinions of experts and also the OECD when it was in Slovenia, by the way, because you did not listen to the state holding, you had to stop the process in order to adjust it now, because without taking into account the OECD guidelines, even in this country, it is difficult to live. What's hard to tell you is that the law so far is based on the fact that it becomes a big financial burden for the best agricultural land, not all of it, bad agricultural land, very bad agricultural land or the construction of settlements is not a burden for investors, but a great burden for industrial investors on the best agricultural land, which is only 9,000 hectares from 475 thousand hectares in Slovenia, and you would believe that you will understand why. We in Slovenia once had a payment for the degradation of agricultural land. For reasons unknown to me – then I did not have the opportunity to be a coworker of this respected National Assembly – you then abolished it, that was a mistake, ten years ago a bad one was reinstated and now it is now overturned. Believe me, we will return it sooner than you think, but the second time we return it, we will not return it because the National Assembly can do this wisdom or this intelligence, but you will simply say, let's adapt to European directives, that is, European protection going in this direction. If you read the documents, you'll see. Dear Members and Members! The law that will be adopted today will not cause serious harm in the short term. This is because in this country, like many others, there is not enough money for very large investments and there will be no more. So there's really no such thing as fear. But by adopting such a law, you simply express your attitude toward the protection of natural resources. This syndrome, which is now developing, is already getting its name. It's called county syndrome. We are only able to look to the boundaries of our congregation and to transfer this thinking to the level of the country, if we had the opportunity, probably to the level of the European Union, but thank God you do not have this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u43	In addition, on behalf of the Group of the People's List of Mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Dear colleagues, colleagues and, of course, representatives of the Government and the State Councillor Mr. Vrishk! Today, at the request of the Council of State or at their initiative, we decide on the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act. In the Civil Gazette, we insist on the position of this novel, which we handed out at the time of its adoption last week. We cannot agree and accept the position or determination of the Council of State, as stated in their explanation. It was written down, "at present, the compensation still in force is the only tool to protect the best agricultural land from irrational construction and thereby preserve the land for food security". We already have limited traffic in agricultural land in the legal system. There are also inexpertial arguments that the reduction of these compensations will open up the hunting for agricultural land, as we know that they are also protected from the building by municipal spatial plans. As long as the land isn't built on it, it's impossible to build. That there is a long way to go, however, he knows many of our ordinary citizens who have been waiting ten years for these plans and changes. Furthermore, some of the measures taken by the common agricultural policy can be said to protect agricultural land. Why? After all, he's the best farmer of agricultural land himself. and if it is paid for farming or food production, then it does not sell its land or have no interest in changing its purpose. So if we help the Slovenian food producer, especially with good purchase prices, we also protect agricultural land. Here, however, the Slovenian cooperative can play a decisive role, which should bring together producers and threaten to become more competitive with importers through their joint appearance on the market. Finally, we also protect agricultural land by buying food from Slovenian farms. Because of all this, of course, the explanation of the State Council does not convince us, and that is why the Members of the National Gazette will be backing this novel today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u45	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made in the framework of the votes, five minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.30 p.m. In five minutes, this is at 13.25 p.m., and in room 212, the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission will continue. The MVK has yet to complete its work in order to prepare everything necessary for the next point and proceed at half past three.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u46	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Almost there. Almost there. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on behalf of the proposal to appoint the Acting President of the Governing Board and the Acting Member of the Management Board of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Would you like to speak with the Minister of Finance, Dr. Schuštersitch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u47	Nicely greeted! Yesterday it became clear that we will not decide on the Slovenian State Holding Act today. Even if it were to be decided, it would probably be – at least that was the announcements made by Members, not trade unions – I would like to emphasise – a referendum tabled against the law. Because we were faced with this forecast of the blockade and because some other arrangements - according to my assessment of the positive agreement - were concluded last night, we decided to move the decision on the Slovenian state holding company to one of the next meetings, but probably to the fastest possible. As a result, we have resolved two members of the Management Agency for managed capital investments at the same time. However, the Agency did not cease to exist, as was envisaged by the proposal for a law, the situation in which this capital investment management board of the Agency had, or currently has, the President-in-Office alone and this president is resigning. This created a situation in which the agency did not have even half the administration, and the government then found yesterday that this had to be resolved in some way. Quickly, through a letter meeting, we proposed what we could: two members of the administration as compensation for the period, probably, two months or something like that. So, by the time the holding law is passed, of course, if this solution remains to exist by the establishment of the holding agency. This decision is now before you. It is important to ensure the functioning of the Agency during these months. But all the rest, of course, I'll leave you to your debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. You don't have a report from the Mandate-Volution Commission on the bench yet, that's what I have to tell you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Ramšak, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, let me say that the Commission is proposing to the National Assembly that one should be accepted from two sets and one rejected. So we have two conclusions. The first is: "For the perpetrator of the duties of a member of the administration of the AUKN, the name is mag. Peter Ješovnik." This is where the commission proposes confirmation, acceptance. And secondly: "For the performance of the duties of the President of the AUKN, the name is mag. Vitoslav Türk". And here the commission proposes to reject. So, I give the word Procedural? [[...]] Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, President. It is essential that we receive a report from the Mandate-Voluntary Commission before the continuation of this item on the agenda. I have already informed the President at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that in this report there is also a statement that Mr Ješovnik does not meet the conditions for appointment as a member of the Management Agency for Capital Investments because he was wrongly dismissed by the Director of JAPTI. That's one warning. The second point is also related to the experience in the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in the discharge process of the members of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency, where the President submitted a report that did not mention a word by those Members and Members, or we were alone with colleague Majda at that meeting and also opposed the resolution, nor was there a word in that report. I suggest in a procedural manner that you suspend the meeting and, once we have this report, we continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Of course you have that right. I've been informed that the material will begin to be distributed in 2.3 minutes. So I'd like to suspend the session until 2.45 p.m. I would remind you once again how nice it would be if we were doing business in electronic form. Because the material is already in UDIS and accessible to everyone. If this were to be equivalent to being divided physically, we would not have any problems. But anyway, I'm hanging up until 2:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u51	We're continuing our adjourned session. In short, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government is at the 26th letter session of the 19th. Seven. 2012 decided to propose to the National Assembly that it appoint the Head of Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia. Vitoslava TÇrk and for the perpetrator of the duties of a member of the management mag. Peter Ješovnik. The Government's proposal was discussed at the 9th emergency meeting today, 20th Seven. The meeting was also attended by the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr. Janez Šuštersič, who further explained the Government's proposal. In the debate, the Group of Social Democrats stressed that they felt that the candidate did not meet the legal conditions for appointment, and it was pointed out that he was a mag. Peter Ješovnik was acquitted as Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment. However, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group did not support the candidate for the CEO of the Agency for Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Vitoslava Tærk. Following a discussion, which is detailed in the magnetogram of the 9th urgent meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the Commission decided on the proposals for decisions, namely to propose to the National Assembly that it should adopt decisions appointing Mag as the chairman of the office of the Management Agency for Capital Investments. Mr Vitoslav TÇrk and the member of the Board of Directors of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Peter Ješovnik. The proposal concludes that the National Assembly shall adopt a decision appointing Mag as the Acting President of the Management Agency for Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia. Vitoslav Tμrk, not accepted. Therefore, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it decide on a proposal for a decision appointing the CEO of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint Mag. Vitoslav Türk. The proposal concludes that the National Assembly shall adopt a decision appointing Mag as the Acting President of the Management Agency for Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia. Peter Ješovnik was accepted. Therefore, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 19, of the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision be taken on the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a member of the Board of Director. Peter Ješovnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u53	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Please sign up for a statement of your views. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Today, two members of the AUKN administration were dismissed a good hour ago for reasons of guilt. In addition to the reasons set out by the Government in the discharge proposal, some such as poor management of capital investments, ignoring calls by the Court of Auditors for the resolution of the Dars administration, a lack of response to the New Maribor Credit Bank. The leader of the Social Democrats Group said in his speech today that they had taken money from the NKBM in suitcases, but we did not notice anywhere that the AUKN administration would have reacted in any way to the supervisors at the New Credit Bank Maribor. One reason, however, is the inability of the AUKN administration to replace supervisors because they were unable to appoint within 8 months the CEO of our largest, as we call it, system banks. The discharge requires the establishment of temporary members of the administration, i.e. those who will perform the duties of approximately two months, of course, if they hold the agreements that were adopted yesterday at the meeting of the Presidents of the parliamentary parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups. For by mid-September, the Slovenian State Holding Act was to be considered and adopted, which would otherwise regulate the management of state property. The government has made a proposal. The proposal is opposed to the opposition, which I can also understand as part of the opposition's classic attack on the government. However, the main reason why these attacks are being concealed is probably the potential for this temporary management of the AUKN to come up with some data and perhaps also the possibility of exposing all those who have acquired low-cost loans to poorly secured loans. This is said to be all the data that the Commission of Inquiry could not have received in the previous term, which investigated the poorly secured loans of the New Ljubljana Bank and so on. In short, there is probably this danger and the preventive opposition acts as a very sharp attacker against this personnel proposal. Cheap loans from system banks, from Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor were not received by small people. They were received by people who were persons in the management of companies who were in the management of companies in large part even before the country was created. And these people are included in some groups, in some networks that have known names, and are, in fact, largely supporters of all those that came from the foundations of the former single party. In short, it is not now about showing some serious purpose, but mainly about discrediting a proposal that is prepared. Indeed, the time for drafting the proposal was not great, perhaps because of some concern in one of the coalition parties. However, I think that a decision must be taken at today's meeting and this temporary leadership should be appointed to carry out the tasks until the new Slovenian State Holding Act is adopted. As we say, we expect this to take up to two months. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Government's proposal. It is said that we will vote in favour of one proposal from the Mandate-Election Commission and we will oppose the other proposal from the mandate commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u55	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u56	The positive Slovenia has, of course, been preparing for the last five minutes on the proposal itself, given that there was no time at all for the proposal we received on the table itself. And it is also more obvious that we are actually used to this and that we will continue to take rapid action from minute to minute. One of these rapid measures is certainly also the change to the AUKN and, above all, the resolution of yesterday or today, should have happened yesterday, today's resolution, which is a kind of unknown to me mainly for one reason, because the Mandate-Electorial Commission, where we have decided and listened to the report today, has actually decided on this case for two days at a four- or three-time suspension of the meeting, in the midst of a fast-track call to a new one. I have to say, we didn't actually get any information. Firstly, we have not received information as to why it has been resolved, except that, for false reasons and today, it is not known that the members of the AUKN have been resolved because of illegal matters, but because of the issue of business secrets, and there is a great deal of hurry. And it is more than clear that the reason for today's holding law has been passed all the time, and it is also necessary to replace the members of the AUKN with a new leadership that will take up positions in the holding company. Since a number of questions were raised throughout the day as to whether a meeting with the President of the Government with the presidents of the parties and the leader of the parliamentary groups was agreed on today's appointment of new members of the administration, I can say that nothing has been agreed. However, it was suggested that this should not be done today, especially for the reason that it is only 50 days apart from the new date when it should be seen whether or not the new Holding Act is in line or when it will be adopted. For the coalition can accept this without opposition, of course, it is pointless today to appoint new members if we can do so with a new law and with a new appointment in the package. In addition, let me mention that I am awkwardly surprised that for at least one member I can claim that I have not received a reply from the Mandate-Electorial Commission, nor have I received any written evidence, statement, nor have I had the opportunity to hear candidates or anything else, except that no one has been informed that any criminal proceedings against candidates of the members of the administration are ongoing. And for these reasons, first and second, we will not support either proposal in Positive Slovenia. Of course, I would also point out that, given that we received a report two minutes ago, that the report is written in such a way that if you look at the preceding paragraph, I do not really understand it. Because if that's true what it says in there, then I have to say that on this committee that decided on it, we weren't. I don't know if it's a mistake or a misunderstanding or anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u57	Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Today's item, which is intended to appoint the CEOs of the Capital Investment Management Agency and the CEO of the Capital Investment Management Agency, shows everything, I will say, the low level of management of Slovenian assets proposed by the coalition. We have listened at the point of discharge of members of the Agency's board of directors of the obvious that it is non-professional, that it is for people who have not done well and so on. If you review and compare the career path of Mr Mark Golob and Mr Danil Grašić with mag. Vitoslav Tμrk and Mag. Peter Ješovnik, you will find that there is a significant difference. We had experts in the administration, we had competent people coming from the economy, we had people who had well planned the management of capital investments in Slovenia, we get people who certainly do not meet the legal conditions or the conditions they would expect to have in their business careers. Let me just point out the fact that you're going to have to do such a mag. Vitoslav TlexandraGophmannk as a mag. Peter Ješovnik follows the principles adopted by the previous management of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments in the Appointment of Persons to the Supervisory Council. These principles, however, are: special integrity and business ethics, education, work experience and appropriate expertise and the decency to be not economically specific or otherwise closely linked to society or its administration, have no potential conflicts of interest, have a good name and represent added value for the work of a specific supervisory board. How can people who are supposed to run the Capital Investment Management Agency be appointed to the supervisory boards of competent people? If they make a comparison with their integrity, with their experiences, they do not have the authority to propose experts to the supervisory councils. And we ask ourselves in the Group of Social Democrats, which of the external investors will be willing to invest in companies run by incompetent people in the supervisory councils. Who? Who will give their wealth to someone who will make a political decision? He will not take a professional decision, he will not decide on the criterion set by the State to maintain the value of his assets. And if we look at Mr Vitoslav Tærk, it comes from the field of energy. What's the interest? Certainly by trying to get as much out of this energy as possible for the needs of the customer, for the needs of client interests, for the purposes of politics, not for the needs of the State. This is a direct conflict of interest. If we look at future board member Peter Ješovnik, he was wrongly dismissed as director of Japan. He was wronged. It does not meet the conditions for it to come to any list as a member of the administration, even less so that we are voting on it today in the National Assembly. And I ask you, how will someone who was the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board in the New Ljubljana Bank, at the time when the worst loans were granted, in my opinion, even criminal credits and how this person will affect the removal and guarantee of responsibility, the identification of responsibility due to poor claims, if he is indemnity responsible for what has happened? Isn't this a conflict of interest? How can such a proposal come into the National Assembly today? Social Democrats call on the representative of the Government of the Minister of Finance to withdraw this proposal, not even to vote on it. Thank you. Of course, we are opposed to both proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u59	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I'd like to ask you to sign up for the debate. After 5 minutes, there will be a debate and only once can anyone debate. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, you just made a statement that Mr. Mag. Peter Ješovnik is guilty. That's what you need proof for. If you do not have this evidence, it means insulting and profaning a good name and an act of honor and his good. Because this meeting is public, it's also proof that you did it. According to my information from Mr Ješovnik, five, ten minutes ago, Mr Ješovnik was not wrongly dismissed from JAPTI, but he broke the working relationship. If that is true, then your claims are misleading and then I hope that this Mr Ješovnik is watching this broadcast or that he will also receive a magnetogram and will take over all legal matters in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u61	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u62	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Every day, I find it more important for this government to take power, to cost, to afford, and to afford, as much as we can afford. Slovenia is an absolutely uninteresting investment country for both domestic and foreign investments. Everything we do so quickly is just an extra stone in a mosaic that affects investors. We have no created conditions for nothing and we are engaged, we are actually in a hurry, we are putting away people who have actually hoped to oppose politics. The two members we are solving today, or you want to resolve them, have actually been resolved, are correct, capable and apolitical. By what we are doing today, we create only an additional negative atmosphere in the Slovenian economic space. The capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia are treated as they would have done, they said, a pig with fur. I have the feeling that there is really such ignorance and politics over economic and careful treatment of Slovenian property. Therefore, there is something else, such as saying that I regret that we live in such a policy and that such a policy prevails and that it surrounds us, I regret once again, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, that there is no more sense in this country when there is a major crisis. When there is a major crisis, not just at home, but anywhere in the world, we could actually think a little bit about our behavior and put politics aside and give priority to professions. Only a profession can save us from this crisis, but a profession that is not subject to politics is a profession that is capable of resisting politics. In this way, as you are now working and recruiting, it is in fact just another proof that you want to set the politically appropriate and appropriate people to the right places. And what else can await us in the future? It's just a worse situation. Once again, I sincerely regret that the situation is as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u63	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u64	Dear comrades! As I thought, it is difficult to press the key and vote in favour on the basis of such sceptical data for reasons of guilt that people should be given the opportunity to defend themselves. I don't know personal or mags. Peter Ješovnik is not a magician. Vitoslav Türk and I can't judge their competences, because I don't have the data and we didn't get them either. And I didn't try to get them myself. However, if the Capital Investment Management Authority manages some more than 8 billion assets, or if you do not think it appropriate for people to come to the Hall, present their views, manner of management and present themselves to the National Assembly. See, to those who do not have a strong party voice, you must understand us, as you must also understand the general opinion that a vote in the National Assembly is a responsibility. And wrong decisions at this point will have no disastrous consequences today, but they will have them in the future. As you know, everyone here gathered that wrong decisions in the past have disastrous consequences today, at this moment. Slovenia is in a serious crisis, Slovenia will probably be even bigger in the autumn if we do not say what by the end of the year. [[...]] However, I expect in the future a number of procedural regularities to be expressed in this way. A greater opportunity for information and decision-making. Taking the dignity of people in such a way that we do not give them a chance to defend them, and on the other hand expect people to vote for some proposals without people presenting themselves, I do not think that it is right and does not guide us along the path of long-term success. I will conclude with this, personally I know that in the past I have made mistakes and I feel the consequences. I personally know that this country, the National Assembly is in the past, the President of the Government has explicitly said this, the legislation is wrong, it needs to be amended. This means that Members in past national assemblies have adopted wrong, harmful legislation. Wrong, harmful decisions. Do we have to make these mistakes again today? That's what I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u65	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, for the last time before vacation! I can see there's no end to the swindling by the coalition. I'm sorry this coalition can't hold up any constructive bonding hold, not even a 10-hour stand. Yesterday we were all aware of the good news that the presidents of the parties, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, agreed on a good thing, a good thing for Slovenia. However, you do not last 10 hours to continue in this positive atmosphere and move on as a roller. Mr Šuštersič said today that we do not have another option and today we must appoint two members of the AUKN administration. You had your chance. The previous two members of the board are scheduled to be dismissed today. And Mr Šušteršič also said that we solved them for false reasons. I personally, and probably you, somewhere else, haven't read the conclusion that we're getting rid of them for false reasons. And those two will also be able to read Mr Šuštersič's magnetogram and, as you said, Mr Andrej, Janku, that Ješovnik should sue Janka, Golob and Grašič, but they will sue Mr Šuštersič, as well. Let's move on. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the President or member of the AUKN agency, who will manage 11 billion Slovenian assets. And when we read the articles on how to get to the administration, Article 17 says well that it is not compatible with the functions of the body in political parties. Both Türk and this Mr. Ješovnik went to what parties? [[...]] Slovenian Democratic Parties. Mr. Türk has run for office in Illyrian Bistrica, has collected votes, has spoken to people, but when it was necessary to sit in this Parliament for such a salary and for such benefits, he prefers to go elsewhere because it is better paid and you have more influence. And now we see where he wanted to go. To manage state property. And he played people in Illyrian Bistrica. That's one thing. I don't know what's going on with Mr. Türk and his Eles and selling electricity, that'd be nice to find out. We only got a CV, that's all Mr. Türk's program, how he's going to manage 11 billion. 17 lines, and they're not even full yet. When we talk about Peter Ješovnik, I will not say anything that I would not have been accidentally accused, but he was a member, that is my biggest concern, a member of the NLB Supervisory Board in 2005 and 2009, when credits were shared by the system in good eyes or how well we know each other and today this same person will oversee the New Bank of Ljubljana. And Mr Šušteršič, I don't know how naive you are, how this man will open the system and watch what they did if he was there. This guy's supposed to be convicted, and I don't know what, because he was there. And if he saw that they were sharing credits at the time, he should have warned because he didn't warn me, but he's as guilty of my notions as the others. This Mr Ješovnik has not worked in any economic society throughout his working life. I hope he knows what balance sheets are and that the balance sheet has two pages and so on. And today this same Ješovnik will supervise and manage companies in Slovenia. The government has a chance to do this, but I don't think that's right. If we want to save Slovenia together, all 90 Members, to adopt a fiscal rule to adopt a good law on holding, then such things are not done. And for two months, probably these two gentlemen have time to replace some people in Kad, in the Court, in some societies, probably now it will be easier to replace the man in the GEN, because these two will play because the previous, Mr Golob and Grasic, have stopped things and you will now clean things up and then you will start working with the opposition again. That's not how it works. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u67	Mr. Lucky Meh, after him Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u68	Thus, with a slight dismay, I see in the National Assembly that we take individual decisions, decrees, laws, name people, resolve us, and there are several mayors and mayors and everything else. If we did so in our municipal world, I cannot say of others, not one thing goes through the position or opposition ever and never in the way we do it here. And I'm really disappointed in the way it works, and it's not good. Once again, Mr Minister, I propose that you withdraw these two proposals. They're both inappropriate because we don't even know them, or we don't know from which party, no one said that. And if we have resolved two AUKN members without a single debate, without listening to the AUKN report and without discussing what the AUKN has done, today we are appointing a director or perpetrator of the duty and a member, without knowing what we are ordering them. And I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, our Prime Minister, Janez Janša succeeded, he made a big push yesterday by moving the decision on the fiscal rule and holding the meeting today to September or later, but today we are deciding on the replacement of the AUKN and the possibility of replacing all personnel until we decide what we should decide then on the fiscal rule and also on this holding. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to find a consensus, a consensus that can also mean a fiscal rule and also set up a holding or joint property management, then we should find a candidate or candidate who is at least about the same to be trusted by everyone, and we have not done so. Two members who do not enjoy confidence are proposed, two members who are directly involved in politics. Do you then imagine that in September we will talk about holding in the same way as today? So we can talk about a fiscal rule like today? We've got time. Today, as Mr Han has said, after ten hours of agreement yesterday, we have also trampled all agreements. It's not good, it's not right, it's not good signals, it's too real problems. When Mr Vogrin spoke about the fact that it would be time to really know whether we can trust someone or not, what we can do about this management of our property. It's not good. These messages aren't good today, they're not real. And I'm asking you nicely to win – you know, I thought someone was joking this morning when he said that Vitoslav Türk would be proposed as a doer of duty today. I thought it was just like that. But, despite the years and everything else, I'm a relatively naive man. Today, at 3 p.m. or a minute earlier, I received a proposal proposing that the Government of Vitoslav Türk lead what we still have in Slovenia. And that way he's not good, he's not right, he's not healthy. This way, ladies and gentlemen, we can't work. I'm against it, and I'll always be against it when it's done. However, I support those proposals that may lead to a common solution. And once again, Minister, withdraw your proposal and let us make a joint proposal. I'm really sorry that we decided that we didn't discuss AUKN at all. So, the only property we have left in Slovenia has not been discussed as much as we are discussing this director and what we have resolved. It's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u69	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, followed by Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Wanted or unwilling, the coalition today shows what its priorities are. When we may have thought last night that the truth is that the problem of Slovenia is the golden rule in the constitution, we see that this is just a lot of words, but the background is completely different. Today, when you withdrew those two points, you had a nice opportunity to withdraw this third point, which we discussed. But you put it on the agenda. First, you had to resolve two members to show which two of the canary parties would arrive on the agenda of today's meeting. Unlike the members of the MVK, we don't even have what Mr Han said before. We only have those names that were given to us here. So without all the other stuff, we're deciding today about people who are supposed to lead, even two, three, or not know how many months, nine billion state assets. I think it is clear to everyone that this is a two-way trip: we have a meeting of companies ahead of us and we need to replace what has not yet been replaced with a supervisory council and set up our own administrations. And as I said last time, even make sure the last cousin of the secretary's cousin gets a job in the country. That's your priority, but everything else is just words to the public. The Minister even allows himself to declare that the opposition Members have not even read the materials that were adopted at the meeting, which is, of course, one of the eccentric lies again, because we all participated in the committees. And not only did we cooperate, but I think we also made some proposals. But it's just a perpetum cell that goes on, grinds, grinds like a mill. Above all, it is to place all of its personnel in all the places that are possible. But the results don't matter to anyone anyway. In the fall we will again listen to this litany, how important this fiscal rule is, because otherwise Slovenia is at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u71	Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, then Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u72	Dear President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear fellow Members, Mr Čehovin, Member of Positive Slovenia, you have marked us as members of the Canary Party. I must respectfully tell you that I am only a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, I would expect a little respect from my fellow Members, never in the National Assembly or at any of your working bodies have I despised or bullied you in any way, and I expect this from you, Positive Slovenia, and all your colleagues and colleagues. If I keep going to my debate. Discreditation and liquidation. These words continued to revolve around at the meeting of the Commission on Elections yesterday when we discussed the discharge of two members of the AUKN administration. And what are you doing today, colleagues and colleagues with Social Democrats? This, the discreditation and liquidation, obviously follows this discredit. And you're telling the truth. And every time the cameras are on, you're telling the truth. Mr Shirtzelj, my colleague, has made it clear to you that Mr Mag. Peter Ješovnik was not dismissed for false reasons because he had called him earlier and found that he had a contractual break in his working relationship. You also spoke at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission itself about Mr Vitoslav Türk, a member of the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and you also discussed this in your debate, but, of course, you ignored the third paragraph of Article 17, which speaks, "The President or a member of the administration and the President or a member of the Council must cease the activity referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article no later than three months after the date of appointment. If he does not do so or violates the provisions of this Article, he shall cease to be President, Member of the Management Board, President or Member of the Council." Of course, I am talking about when it is said that Article 1 speaks about the fact that a member of the administration cannot sit in office in the political party and union bodies. Again and again, you speak the untruths before the public. It is precisely because we have found again and again that in the opposition you always speak falsehoods, state facts and discredit people and talk about political personnel, that I am very interested in why you then dismissed Mr Ješovnik from JAPTI. I'm sure it's not because you'd like him, but politically that you'd be able to frame your own staff. And when we talk about the conditions that the President of the AUKN must comply with according to the law that you have adopted when I look at the conditions, you will not convince me that it has not been written on the hands of someone, because such conditions very rarely can be fulfilled in Slovenia. But I think there are people in this Slovenia, regardless of left, right, upper, lower, able to run this administration. Of course, you also forget to mention that it is only the perpetrators of duties, when we discuss another bill or holding and fiscal rule in the autumn. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u73	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I understand my colleagues and colleagues from the SDS Group that you will try to defend Mr Ješovnik at all costs, because this does not surprise me, not least he has hired many people, he has done you a favor, he has rewarded them well, he has even increased them by five classes of their salary. However, the fact is that the audit showed that it had broken the rules in the 48th transaction. At 48, that's a fact. That's what the audit showed. And it will be interesting to see then what the reasons were, whether they were consensual, any different, what the basis was. It's gonna be so interesting. But the fact is, he did you a great service and I believe you want to protect him. But I don't understand why others would protect him because it's exclusively the interests of the SDS. In both cases, when we talk about staffing today, we are members of the SDS. And I think that in one of the debates, Mrs Komar, czech, was already a member of the Social Democrats. Yes, she was. However, at the moment she decided to run for President of the AUKN administration, she resigned. I'm asking if your candidates will do the same. I ask how the human resources procedures will be conducted at all the congregations and the supervisory councils that will follow. If you are correct during all this period when we discuss what the holding company is supposed to do, how to manage the property, I expect that you will not resolve people through the current tape and install the obedient party people. Once again, the biggest damage to the economy is actually done by people called by customer criteria. At that point, they satisfy a narrow circle of interest, and when the policy changes, we find that this company is in bad shape and there are still some problems. I have already told Minister Šušteršič, in the debate on the Mandate-Election Commission, that he will regret that he has proposed the replacement of previous members of the administration who have indeed been, in their competence and competence, an example of governance of state property. He will have significantly more problems by justifying the actions of the current administration to be made. Significantly more. It is not just the fact that we are trying to talk about how bad this is to run the country, but it is also the fact that we are all talking about how to actually save the economy, how to help banks, how to get out of this credit crunch, and how this process can actually proceed if the revision is not carried out in the New Bank of Ljubljana. Do you hope to announce that you will perform the audit at Nova Ljubljanska Banka, New Bank of Credit Maribor? Not at all. Because you want to continue to hide things that were happening there right at the time when Mr Ješovnik was also Vice-President of the Supervisory Council at the New Ljubljana Bank. An irrefutable fact. I wonder if this in-depth review that you did at the government gave some indication of what was going on at the time and who was sitting in the supervisory councils, and what measures will you take? If you have not discovered this or you do not want to reveal it, you do not want to tell the public, then you bear all those who will vote for such solutions, including the responsibility to conceal those data. But this data is really going to come into play. But I certainly cannot vote for such candidates who cannot ask others to be burdened by their ability and conflict of interest in decision-making in the supervisory councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. We are slowly concluding the debate. However, the decision on the draft decision will be in line with the Timetable. [[...]] I'm opening the application. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u76	Dear Mr. President. After all this debate I have listened to, I have absolutely nothing left but to sign up for the word. I am convinced that such accusations and such incorrect statements that I have heard here today in Parliament, some Members, are indeed distasteful. And, Mr President, at least what I would expect of you is that when you hear certain discredits, which I am sure there is no evidence of either taking away the word from these Members and Members or also reminding them and asking them to apologize to those people who have been discredited in this way without adequate evidence. It is amazing that someone in this House, a member of the National Assembly and this head of the parliamentary group, allows a person to be discredited without evidence. To tell a person that she was wrongly solved does not have any quality, appropriate evidence. I am convinced that the leader of the parliamentary group who said this should understand that there is a huge difference between someone who has been wrongly resolved and someone who breaks up in agreement. There is such a big difference between these two terms that I am sure that whoever Mr Weber attacked today will initiate appropriate legal procedures and demand all that belongs to him for the sake of smearing his name. This way, individuals and leaders of the parliamentary group have exceeded all legal, all normal human standards. Yesterday, there was a key meeting at which the party presidents, the presidents of all the parliamentary groups, met and made an important agreement that in any case we should come together if we are to help our people. And if that leads, then today this should not be happening what is happening in Parliament. I am convinced that if the Government has taken responsibility for the leadership of this country, it must also have instruments to be held accountable for this responsibility. In his previous term, Mr Borut Pahor set up people he believed would follow the right path, on a path that would ensure a better and better future for our citizens and citizens, but apparently he did not have the best of luck. But we don't blame him, we don't have anything to blame him for. Now there is a new coalition and a new government in power, and it is right that it assumes all responsibility for this, that it has trust in the key positions of those who believe them and that it will be able to implement the programme it has offered before the elections to its electorates and voters. I'm sure there's no one in the National Assembly who would allow himself to object. Such discredits as another Member has allowed when he claims that Mr Türk is the candidate who will squeeze out as much as possible for the customer's needs to be put there in order to squeeze out as much as possible for the customer's needs. Such a statement really goes beyond the limits of good taste. I am sure that no Member in this House can afford such a thing, because there is no evidence whatsoever. It is absolutely irrelevant to ask who of those people who are placed on certain functions comes from any party. You know what's important? He who is appointed must take responsibility for doing all that is possible for the benefit of our people. This is a fundamental question, and I am sure that all those we are discussing today know that we would like to put up those people who will work in the interest of our people, the Slovenian man. And that's a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u77	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself have come to my attention because colleague Weber has repeated twice the statement that the proposed candidates are far from qualified and competent for the competence and competence of the replaced members of the administration. And they're anonymous. I didn't hear about the replacements today until about a month ago. Mr Marko Golob, I admit that you are justifiablely complaining about him because in the last year, he has been a prominent propagandist and manipulator for a month because he manipulates data and letters in such a way that it is illegal that he certainly did not deal with the economy, but was involved in manipulation. Let me only point out that in his letter to Members or in other documents, he also stated that the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank was designed to be an easy prey for the Belgian Bank of KBC. A total lie, the truth has demented him, and you keep setting him up as an example. The other thing is, I remember the mags from these, today's proposed candidates. Vita Türka, who was in the State Assembly at the Committee on the Economy when the LDS took over power and was then director of Eles, but in exchange or already replaced because he had done a good job of selling electricity to the country because he was extremely good at selling electricity when there were no spikes in Slovenia. By doing so he intervened in the acquired lobbies of the then wider LDS and oligarchy, the successors of their interests here to my right. That's when they tried magic. Vita Türk bosega received on his left foot on the Committee on the Economy – perhaps even then Mr Weber was also a member of the Committee at that meeting, I do not remember exactly – and he was not informed of the content at all, so he did not have the annual report he had prepared with him and did not share it with the Members. And I remember a brilliant intellect when he said, "You don't have to bring me," I suggested then a break so he can get his papers, "you don't have to bring me them, I'll just answer." And then I watched it from the report, and he knew every number. It is, so that people with such brilliant intellect to insult, manipulate, are not capable and qualified, is insufferable and unacceptable to me. And certainly in his business career he proved himself with an extraordinary mind, not least he ended up the same other high school as I did, and it's an elite high school, so all those who read that after the parish were swimming, of course it's unsustainable. However, I must say that he had one minus in his career because he failed when Director Eles was the owner of the Talum to replace the then director, the SD candidate in the last elections, mag. Toplaka. Because he manipulated the congregation, he openly boasted that he had done so with all methods, and this, of course, allowed your party great material benefits before the elections, but the country, of course, had great damage. Because in Tallum, the transmission of state money was perhaps the largest in this country. And that's why, with your capital potential, you made it possible for Türk to replace him then, that's what was happening. And that's why you're defending these lobbies and these oligarchic structures. As a result, I think Mr Türk will also be a good temporary director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u79	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has applied, but you have already discussed it once before, so you can't do it again. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. It seems unfair to me that we are now going to take 11 billion assets of the country somewhere. Those who took him away, I hope, are pursuing law enforcement. That's what we'd expect in this country. However, we have been working all the time to actually better manage capital investments or shares in state-owned enterprises. That is why I have already said in the morning how we imagined this in the 2004-2008 mandate, when we also invited the opposition to the supervisory councils, and in some cases this has happened. Mr Križanič, members of the Economic and Social Council and some others were members of the Supervisory Councils with the aim of improving governance and improving control, as both the coalition and the opposition would be involved. When the new government arrived, you stopped doing this, established KAS, which was eventually criticised by his President Bogomir Kovac. And that's why we've come up with some new option, this is the Capital Investment Management Agency. I already told you this morning what we could see, how the agency did not respond to what it was supposed to do, but how some things changed its opinion, for example in the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. First the AUKN was against, then we were also hearing about some of the stories between Mrs Dagmar Komar and Mrs Radic's Minister Zares. In the end, he even proposed the discharge of the AUKN administration. The former Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, reported the agency or members to the anti-corruption commission. That is why, colleagues from Positive Slovenia, I would suggest that you ask the former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, why he suggested this – some Members are now Members of Positive Slovenia – if this was doing so well and fair and everything was fine. I also said this morning that he concluded that the agency did not perform its function as they imagined at the beginning, including Mr Gaspari and others. And we cannot believe, we do not believe in Mr Golob, Mr Grašić, Mrs Komar, the apolitical and honestness of Mr Jankovic, whom Mr Misic spoke about a long time ago. Why not? Because facts and data, documents, statements and actions show otherwise. That's why we solved these two gentlemen in the morning. We'll see what happens to Mr. Jankovic. And the fact is, Mrs. Komar has stepped down. We can say it's about time after everything I've told you before. They were doing a lot of things, just not what the agency was set up to do. We've met the strategy with months of delay and so on. We have resolved two members of the agency this morning, which means that the management agency does not have and should be appointed a new leadership. You have also told us that we are discussing or that we must discuss candidates without a CV or without a CV. According to my information, you also discussed Mark Jaklič in the City Council without a CV, and you didn't have much to worry about. And it is obvious all the time that there is no time to debate and so on. As far as I can tell, there's not even a single debate in the City Council. The opposition proposed the last meeting 14 days ago, an extraordinary meeting where only the initiators could say what they were thinking and the debate was not possible and it was impossible. Here you teach us democracy every day and how to discuss how to allow each one to express his or her opinion. I agree with that, but then act like one in the City Council. Of course, I will support the two proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, you cannot have a replica because you were not mentioned in the debate. What's your name? Okay, then the replica, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u82	Mr President, I would suggest that you attend this meeting more closely, which you are conducting, for a simple reason, if you turn the magnetogram around, you will find that Mrs Jeraeva has absolutely mentioned me. Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraeva. You gave me a chance to answer. If there had been little good will in the National Assembly, especially on the part of the ruling coalition, there would have been much less will, and so much bad will. And I hope that we will see this day when the debate from this House will be banished. When you mention Mr Jankovic, Mrs Jeraj, I ask you: Do you trust your boss? Mr Jankovic is one of the most honest people in Slovenia. [[Laughing in the hall]] Literally, and this will be proven sooner or later. Anyone who looks at other people's work doesn't see his own. Let's watch your work, do this job and this mission for which you've got confidence, and you'll be fine. Don't accuse a nonstop man who isn't here today. Why is nonstop when you come to any point in the agenda, Mr. Zoran Jankovic on the wallpaper? Why are you doing this? You have no idea. Let us actually concentrate a little bit, concentrate on your goal, towards the goal of a solution and a way out of the crisis. By doing so and creating negative conditions, we are only deepening the crisis [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u83	That's not a replica, Mr. Misich, first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u84	And that's a replica because actually [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u85	Next time, I'll warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u86	When you turn your magnetogram back, Mr. President, you'll figure it out. [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u87	I'm sorry, we can't abuse the replica to that extent. Do you still want to discuss it? Mag. Maja Potrat's still registered? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. You know, a lot of thunder, a little rain. This meeting of the National Assembly was announced as a historic meeting of the National Assembly, but after the coalition had thus limited the time to discuss the opposition and when, like a bulldozer, it was difficult to talk about the historicity of the meeting. However, it is particularly difficult to talk about this in the light of Mr Ivan Janš's statements, which said: "At the meeting of the National Assembly, which ends tomorrow, 20 extremely important laws were passed, 20 laws that remove hundreds of bureaucratic obstacles that plague Slovenian man and Slovenian entrepreneur. This was not the first time that much had been reported, and the opposition had not read these laws at all. They didn't even know what the National Assembly was accepting, even though it was finally their job." I wonder who didn't know what we were taking and why the media didn't report much. They didn't have much to report – 27 agenda items, 25 of which we did in two days. This historic session would have been if we had voted on what was the main purpose of this meeting, which is the Slovenian state holding. And if I refer to what Mr Minister said to the MVK yesterday or today at a meeting of the National Assembly, then the abolition of the AUKN was in itself an accepted fact and all but a farce. And when I heard last night about the agreement between the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the presidents of the parties, I was hoping that something really would come out of this agreement. But when I heard that the two AUKN members' discharge point remained on the agenda, I realized that this was actually all one big farce, because if the AUKN was so unnecessary and irrelevant, why could the two not be able to perform their functions until the end. But when we heard who and what kind of references he was appointed to be a scientist, it became understandable in itself. But what still surprises me is, I didn't find out yesterday or today in the agenda that it was a false settlement. Now there's a talk about it. And Mr Braniselj, as a graduate lawyer, said yesterday that the Commission was not a tribunal, but apparently the National Assembly was, given that we did not consider the Commission's annual report and found false responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u89	Mrs. Alenka Pavlich. I'd like to ask for some peace and listen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u90	Mr President, I forgive you for letting me go because it was my turn in front of Mrs Alenko Jeraj when you skipped Gaspar, but let it be, for we are all tired. Thank you so much for saying that. That's what we'd say. When I watch you play volleyball over this speaker stage, on the right and on the left, I tell you that Positive Slovenia does not have such a relationship with AUKN, because we have not participated in the previous reference in this policy and we are absolutely looking at the neutral and unburdened on all these problems. In our programme, the economy was number one point. I'm sorry, the people you're telling to run our property aren't worth it. The Minister himself spoke at a meeting of the Commission of Mandate, that the matter was surprised, because somehow it was calculated that Slovenia's state holding would be accepted yesterday. The material we received on the Mandate-Volution Commission was, at the meeting itself, unworthy of candidates. My niece in the third grade of elementary school would write a better CV than he dared to introduce Mr Vitoslav Türk. I'm not commenting on his work. But Mr Ješovnik wrote on how many pages what he was doing in his mandate. But I'm sorry, these were functions, they weren't any work experience from the economy. I therefore remind you of who you will set for these 50 days or for these two months for the management of the Capital Investment Management Agency. I repeat, we do not have the same relationship with this agency as you do with each other because we did not participate in this history. To comfort some who think it's only temporary. It's not temporary. It's just going to be renamed. The capital investment management agency will become a member of the SDH, and the people who will run this will stay at it and this will be done as it should be. Because of my mistrust in the quality of leadership, I do not support these two members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u91	Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. It might be good to use the same vat in the debates. I would like to remind you that, in the previous term, we had someone in the parliamentary benches who was a candidate for the vote, who achieved one of the top five results in the LDS, became a Member and resigned and then became President of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. Mr. Han, you haven't said a word about this case. Now that someone has run for office on our list has not even been elected as an MP, this is very controversial. He wasn't elected directly. What could have been is the other thing. Mr Veselinovich could also have stepped down and given the place to the next one from the list, but he did not. When you talk about these things, I suggest you take a little look at the chronology of those events where you assisted and allowed them as a coalition party. This cannot suddenly become controversial by the change of a government. Even the eyewitnesses about what's gonna happen. We'll see, Mr. Weber. We know what happened. And we'll see what happens. What happened is not good. We have been monitoring the problems of one project for months, and the bad Slovenian banks have invested in that project, which is commercially uninteresting, EUR 115 million, most of which have been collected by the three largest state banks. No one even mentioned with a word that such an investment was problematic. Nobody. And you had the power, you had the control councils, you had the AUKN, and it still happened. In spite of everything. And now it is likely that this claim for this project – this is a Stožice project – is one of the claims in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which cannot be closed. As regards appointments to supervisory authorities, I would like to remind you very much that we have offered you cooperation in the 2004-2008 mandate in all supervisory councils that went through the appointment in the National Assembly. The mandate of 2008-2011 no longer permitted this. And now that you have the opportunity to look at what the procedure for the Slovenian State Holding will be, you will probably notice that there is a provision for the Commission to control the budget and other public finances to propose one to the Supervisory Board. However, according to the rules of the National Assembly, the Commission for Public Finance is always led by the opposition and has a majority. It is said that this participation of the opposition in management is always possible. And another thing, one of the philosophers said, "Immortal and eternal soul..." of a system that I'm not going to call "a lie." It was Leszek Kolakovsky. And another statement I can quote from him, "communism is organised corruption", and we are witnessing such debates and such discredits are actually at this point in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u93	Let me explain first. Mr Tank didn't run out of time, the problems are with the time measurement system, so his system took two minutes and we dropped it in three minutes minus because every debater has five minutes. So there's no problem. Mr. Han has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u94	Replica, because you called me Jože. I agree that it is necessary to have all the same vats. It is true, like Mr Türk, that Mr Veselinovich acted, for my terms, politically unhygienic or in the spirit of 'for his ass better'. However, Veselinovich, the National Assembly did not decide that we would put him in any position of employment, but he decided and went to the bank. And at the bank, he called it the board of supervisors. We are today deciding whether to appoint Mr Türk to this job or not to appoint him to this job. That's a big difference. Otherwise, they're both in the same system as it is, so I agree with you, but I just think it's very unfair and unhygienic to put your members on such important functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u95	I'm closing the debate. The decision on the draft decision will be taken in the framework of the votes. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u96	I propose a 15-minute recess for a coalition consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u97	Mr Tanko, we are not before the vote, we can do this before the vote. We're not before the vote. In fact, we will now interrupt the agenda item, continue the meeting over Are you in order to proceed with the vote immediately? [[...]] Good. Then we accept Mr Tank's proposal, 15 minutes for consultation. We'll pick it up at 4:17.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-17.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are only three more votes waiting for us, and then you will probably go on holiday slowly. We continue with the adjourned session. We're moving to the vote. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije. In doing so, I would like to point out that in re-decision pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution for the Adoption of Law, a majority of all Members and Members of the National Assembly must vote, that is to say at least 46, in order for the law to be adopted. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. There were 51 votes against 30. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law is passed by the veto of the State Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is by re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplementing the Law on Agricultural Lands. This is also a matter of re-decision after the veto of the State Council, so an absolute majority is needed. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. She voted 49 against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for the appointment of the CEO and the perpetrator of the duties of a member of the Board of Directors of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We have two separate conclusions. We first decide on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Vitoslava Türk is acting as the CEO of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia. So I have to explain. Of course, it's a positive conclusion, so it's called. The MVK proposed to the National Assembly that this proposal be rejected. But we are voting in a positive vote, so those who are in favour of appointment will press for, those who are against appointment, you will press against. Understandable? We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 39. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Petra Ješovnik for the function of V.D. member of the Management Agency for Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and the acting member is appointed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much, and I want a nice vacation for all of you.
