ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Members and Members of Parliament: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs Maria Plevčak and Mr Ivan Hršak. I welcome all the present and wish everyone a good morning! We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal for the initiation of a procedure to amend the Republic of Slovenia to a constitutional law. The draft act was tabled by a group of 42 Members and Members with a first-signed Dr. Gregor Virant. To further explain the draft act, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Dr Gregor Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Good morning, colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Excuse me, Dr. Virant. Procedural Mr. Möderndorfer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I'm only gonna steal a few seconds. Of course, I would just like to inform the president that, on this point, Positive Slovenia will still not participate in the debate and will participate in the vote. And all I want to do is get to know the choir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, good morning! There aren't many of us. Yesterday we were simplifying construction procedures, procedures for obtaining building permits. Today, however, we have the opportunity to simplify the legislative process and the political system in this country. We're a relatively small country, we have two million inhabitants. And like many people before me, we will never be the greatest, but we can build our comparative advantages on some other things, including simplicity, in all areas. And why not start with the simplicity of the political system? I am very well aware that the chances of success of this proposal for the abolition of the State Council are relatively small. Based on the debate and the outcome of the vote on the Constitutional Commission, we have very little chance of the State Council being abolished. But we are the ones who believe in it and who have done everything in our power to do it. We tabled a proposal, defending it with arguments. We are still convinced that our arguments are very strong. And that's actually the most we could do. The opposition opposes this proposal. Even one of the coalition parties opposes this proposal. But we did what was in our power. We kept our pre-election promise because before the elections, we promised to table a proposal to abolish the State Council. For the sake of our understanding, we are not discussing whether we will have a less or more democratic political system in Slovenia today, whether we will have democracy or autonomy. All we are talking about is whether we are going to have a one-house or a two-house parliament. In Europe, we know countries with one-house and two-house parliaments, both possible. Once again, I briefly state the key reasons why we believe that the abolition of the State Council is necessary. Firstly, this institution is unnecessary and does not bring any added value into the political system and does not raise the level of democracy. Second, simplicity. The abolition of the State Council would significantly simplify the political system and the legislative process. Thirdly, the issue of legitimacy. Is the Council of State, as a representative of some partial interests, local, employers, employees, legitimate? How can an institution representing partial interests be placed above the general, majority will expressed in the directly elected National Assembly? And just so we're clear, I'm not glorifying party democracy. I'm aware of all her flaws, and I agree with Winston Churchill, who said that this is the least of all systems or the best of all bad systems. But we do have a National Assembly, and there are representatives of the people sitting there, directly elected. The groups of Members and their political parties shall assume responsibility for their decisions in a transparent manner. People see us and know political parties, they know SDS, they know Positive Slovenia, they know SD, they know us all as "fowsh" money. And when the elections come, they know exactly what someone was defending and how someone was acting. What about in the state world? And that's where some partial interests come in. Political parties also have their influence on the Council of State, which is very opaque. We all know that they have an impact on the State Council, that the State Council is not completely non-party. But this influence is untransparent, unclear, difficult to find traces of this effect. The reason is also a reduction in public spending, although it is not the main one, is not the most important, but EUR 2 million at the annual level is also not negligible money. Well, that's also a reason that's worth paying attention to. And the reason is comparatively legal. If we look across Europe, we will not find a country with a similar, comparable arrangement, such as the Slovenian, i.e. the unitary states, with a comparable number of people with a two-house system. No country has this, comparable to Slovenia. Even more comparable is Ireland, which has a unitary system, but Ireland has more than once more inhabitants than Slovenia. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, say bob beans, let's say the State Council is not needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much for the additional explanation. The draft act was also considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. As I see it, the representative of the Magi. Borut Ambrožič is not in the Chamber to present the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Good morning and another good day's work for everyone! When we talk about the State Council, the fundamental question we need to ask ourselves is whether Slovenia needs a two-household. The two-pronged regime is typical of the larger states, the federal states. Slovenia is not that, Slovenia is an extremely unitary state. The second home has about 79 countries out of 200 countries. The removal of the second home, I hope, is some sort of modern process. A similar story was also decided by New Zealand. Certainly, according to our assessment, the State Council does not contribute anything essential to better political decision-making and the process itself in Slovenia. In a way, it seems to us that the remainder of political bargaining is from the beginning of our independent state. And this compromise simply sticks to today. All the time, throughout the history of the State Council, this State Council has tried to transform itself, but it has never required a two - thirds majority. There has always been at least one third of those who have opposed one third of those who have seen the State Council reformulated slightly differently because of the various interests of abolishing the State Council. But if we draw the line, the fact is that the State Council no longer meets the current challenges of time. Nor is it necessary, and the question is whether the interests represented in the State Council are the same today. I agree that the State Council today could be a good institution for the promotion of democracy, and that is all. If you look at their work, you will find that they organize a lot of different meetings, but, as I said, other institutes and other organisations that deal with similar things also perform a similar task. In Novi Slovenija, we regret in some way that the consolidation of forces in this House will also mean that it is likely that the State Council will continue to vegetate as it is. At first, however, it seemed that there was a two-thirds majority for the abolition of the State Council, but then political conditions began to deteriorate and the opposition again used opposition to this proposal as a kind of expression of opposition to the government. I am sorry and regret that in New Slovenia we will again lose the opportunity to make Slovenia's political space and regulation more transparent, clear and more rational. In New Slovenia, we will support this proposal and we hope, although the possibilities are small, that there will be another Member who will contribute to the required 60 votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Dragutin Mate on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. I hope that we will maintain the level of dialogue that is appropriate in Parliament. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like to say the following. In the Member States of the European Union, which are not federally regulated, there is, as a rule, a one-house regime for parliamentary democracy. Therefore, there is no lower degree of democratic decision-making or democracy in these countries in general. Moreover, these are also often the countries we take as examples of democracy. Some of them have only adopted such changes in recent years. In the debate process of the Constitutional Commission, we listened carefully to arguments, both professional and political, in the Slovenian Democratic Party. After a second debate within the Group of Members, we have found that the abolition of the Council of State cannot and will not, at any point, endanger the degree of democracy and not the degree of democratic decision-making. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the Constitution so that the Council of State is lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The Council of State is part of the current parliamentary system. The Constitution in Articles 96 to 101 provides for the Council of State and leaves the organisation and elections to the law. 40th National Council has a majority for representatives of local interests, 22. And so we also see Members and Members of the Social Democrats of the future of the State Council to become a more prominent representative of local or sometimes in the future of regional interests when Slovenia finally decides on regionalisation. The proposal touches on three sets of issues: the functioning of the political system, democratic decision-making and the quality of legislative decisions, in order to put an end to all of this. In doing so, words such as simplification, added value, rationalisation and appreciation shall apply. We can also ask ourselves whether, in these times, the proposal after the abolition of the Council of State in itself really means added value. In the name of simplification, rationalisation and appreciation, we accept in this mandate a legal solution, which we consider to be neither a social consensus nor a sufficient consultation with civil society and a sufficiently sophisticated analysis, which would also indicate possible effects, not only positive. When I said that the State Council was part of the current parliamentary system, the need for another home constitutional law had been detected since 1927 in the works of Leonida Pitamica, where the second home is a kind of correction or control mechanism for decision-making, where the legislative branch of the authorities, which is highly party-driven, and the executive branch of the government, of course, is the main role. In our public, however, professional and interested, it is often quite obvious that the parties have invaded the country. It therefore raises a legitimate question whether the abolition of the State Council is indeed the best possible solution at this time. This does not mean that the Social Democrats feel that nothing should be changed in the functioning of the State Council. See, we have also written in our electoral programme that we will examine proposals for the abolition or any other arrangements of the State Council. And if we look now at what the Council of State has done in the last three-year term, then we could say that it has forwarded 104 opinions to the National Assembly, 2 adopted laws and 7 draft laws, so 5 have not been adopted. And if we now listen to the proposaler's observation that the State Council is still too much under the influence of the various parties, then I would only consider the statistics that there have been 27 veto initiatives over the past three years. It is true that after the re-vote, 24 laws were adopted in the form in which they were tabled and only three laws were not re-adopted. Here, however, the question now arises whether it is really possible to talk about rationalisation and simplification if only seven days are available to the Council of State in which it has to decide on the veto. We might also wonder whether re-voting is really the only option left to veto. We have also listened to those proposals that say that a possible call after the re-voting could also be combined with the fact that those parts of the law that led to the veto by the State Council would be re-opened and the professional and civil interested public would also be drawn to the debate. Let me point out that at the time of the constitution, the then predecessor of the Social Democrats, a party to the Democratic Reform, defended the State Council as a second home or as a congregation of regions or a congregation of provinces. That is why we do not see the State Council as the rest of a past, but see the State Council as also an opportunity to consider how parliamentary democracy should be regulated in the future. This becomes, after we have voted in the previous term, the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions, an even more up-to-date thought so that local interests are still better represented. There's one more thing I need to warn you. It is also said that the National Assembly adopted a resolution on regulatory activities some time ago setting out the principles of cooperation and the involvement of the public concerned in decision-making processes. The blind man would see how intensively the professional and interested public are involved in decision-making processes, even this meeting is in itself a clear proof that these two spheres were excluded from the decision-making process, despite this resolution on normative activities. Of course, we are aware that the resolution must be respected, but we have not overlooked the warnings of civil society, which in strict austerity measures also sees a space to limit the functioning of civil society. If I do. We believe that there are no valid reasons for supporting, at least, the entire parliamentary group, the proposal to abolish the Council of State, especially in the year when it is necessary to call elections for the Council of State. We believe that in the year when the President of the National Assembly has to call the elections and the first term would already be the end of July, and not later than the end of September, it is really not a good time to think about abolishing the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Ms Katarina Hočevar on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Dearly greeted, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, even on behalf of the National List, where we are the initiators of the abolition of the State Council! The Constitutional Commission has not given this initiative the support needed for constitutional change, but we insist in the Civil Gazette that the State Council is easily lacking without any damage to parliamentary democracy. Our constitution assumes that the people, whose representatives we are democratically elected Members of the National Assembly, have power. Why, then, have another representative body representing only individual social groups' interests? Only some stakeholders are represented in the National Council, and we can ask again why only some. One of the assumptions for the establishment of the State Council was that it should improve its expertise in the Party Assembly of the adopted laws. However, there is no guarantee of such a thing, nor has it in practice been confirmed. A two-pronged method of decision-making will only extend the adoption of individual laws several times, and more expertise in laws can be achieved through consistent respect for the principle of consultation with the public concerned, the social groups and, of course, also with expertise. The type of democratic institutions such as the influence of civil society, the requirement for constitutional review, the call for a referendum, despite the abolition of the State Council in the state system, remain. What the State Council has been doing the most in the last period, namely public presentations of opinions, the organisation of consultations, is not the constitutional competence of this body. Finally, at this point, it is also a good time to put an end to it, as the process of delegation of the new session will be under way in the autumn, which means a lost opportunity for the next term if no termination takes place. The financial aspect is not negligible here either. EUR 2 million per year has been allocated to this institution from the State budget and the current state of public finances is in favour of our proposal. Opponents and some legal experts justify losing the system of barriers and balances in the legislative process when this institution is possibly terminated. In the Citizens' List, we answer this: the biggest and most effective barriers to politics are elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The change of constitution is smart to handle with a shaking hand, so we think in the Slovenian People's Party, that is also the famous river. Our Constitution is the cornerstone of Slovenian statehood and independence. At the time of adoption, as we know, it has experienced a high, more than two-thirds percentage of confirmation, and numerous international recognitions as one of the most democratic and modern constitutions. Parliament's double house was also recognised as a higher degree of democracy. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the abolition of the State Council as one of the fundamental democratic institutions would constitute the beginning and weakening of this fundamental stone of our democracy. Parliamentary democracy requires the possibility of cooperation and discussion of all segments of society, and therefore the decision of the fathers of the Slovenian Constitution on the duality of Parliament was one of the very good and blue solutions in our constitution, which contributed to such a high percentage of support for its adoption and also for its independence. It may be true, as the proponent says, that the abolition of the State Council would simplify the political system and state regulation, but by abolishing it would prevent and weaken the participation of many segments of our democratic society, civil society representatives and, above all, representatives of the local level in decision-making and regulation. With the adoption of the incompatibility of the parliamentary function with the mayor, the Council of State became the only representative at the national legislative level for local, municipal and provincial interests. In the Slovenian People's Party we strongly advocate the even development of all parts of Slovenia, because, after all, citizens live in their local community. We also have the right to influence decision-making on the development of our environment through representative bodies, such as the Council of State. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot support the abolition of the State Council until we establish the provinces in Slovenia and until we have another representative body within the provinces, in a second form at the national level, which will be able to take care of equitable regional development and enable local communities to better participate in the adoption of guidelines, development and legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Hello, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Both the party and the DeSUS Group take the primary position that a change in the mission of the State Council institution is necessary. In a clear presentation of the functioning of this institution, its powers and finally its purpose and the importance for the functioning of the legal and social state, both the party and the majority of the members of the parliamentary group concluded that the abolition and not only the transformation of the State Council made sense. The reason for and against the abolition of this consultative body, in which local interests prevail, and the functioning of which is already influenced by the political spheres, because of the political opacity of some actors, are important. Our Group of Members has largely followed the expertise and reasoning of the reasons for the withdrawal, and I will not repeat the latter at this point, as they have been extensively explained in the course of public debate in the media and professional editions, as well as at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission itself, as well as today in the presentation of the views of the Group of Members. In short, the reasons for and against the abolition of the State Council are reinforced by professional arguments. Our Group of Members will support the amendment of the Constitution with regard to the abolition of the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Richard Braniselj is next. Get ready, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u20	Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Under our Constitution, the Council of State is not a real second home, and I agree with a whole range of constitutional lawyers who claim so. So, in fact, we have an ideal opportunity to achieve in this mandate a change that has actually matured. After 21 years of formation, since the adoption of the Constitution, we have on the table all the legally relevant data, studies, analyses to actually make the right decision. This country is also over-ruled by different legislation – over 800 laws, 14,000 sub-legislative regulations, 23,000 international treaties, not to mention various EU directives and other acts. It is also extremely irregular, oversaturated with various institutions that do not have real added value. The Council of State – 44 indirectly, I emphasise indirectly, not directly elected representatives in this country are intended to represent the interests of all stakeholders in this country, only 44. This is impossible and, of course, such an arrangement cannot guarantee this. The constitutional rights or powers of the Council of State are very modest: it proposes the adoption of laws, gives opinions to the Assembly of State, requires the National Assembly to decide once again on which of the laws, requires the call for a referendum and an inquiry into matters of public interest, but does not have a veto on the budget and does not yet have a whole range of other instruments which the other home has. When we talk about the representation of stakeholders, which the State Council is supposed to provide, I warn, in today's society, in today's developed democracy, we have a whole range of civil society instruments available from referendum initiatives to human initiatives, not to say that any civilian group in this country has the opportunity to engage at any point in the country's importance, mobilise a certain number of people and exert pressure, of course, on legal pressure, on the authorities and influence the legislative process. Civil society is also extremely important in our country. We have a whole range of chambers, we have a whole range of societies, we have a whole range of associations in the public interest, and even a number of other NGOs, which at any time can still influence, express their opinions and influence the legislative process. In short, I suggest we support these changes. Finally, we will no longer be able to propose them in this mandate if this proposal falls. Let this country breathe transparently, so that this legislative process is simple, fast, transparent. Now it's time for change. And I don't agree to an excuse that we still have enough time to reconsider, twice, three more times. Anyone who is not in favor of change is, of course, a convenient excuse. Once again, I propose that we support this proposal for constitutional changes. I'll get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. [[You're giving up.]] Mag. Matthew Tonin. Get ready, Dr. László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u22	For today’s debate, perhaps it would be good to read an article from Dnevnik’s lens that discusses the origin and the reasons for the State Council. And one paragraph I read: "As Dr. France Bučar recalls, there were pressures from all sides, both on the right and on the left, because many wanted a two-home system. According to Dr. Mir Cerar of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, which was the constitutional secretary of the Constitutional Commission at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, we did not necessarily need and without it our policy could work successfully. But in 1991 we needed it in a way, because it offered a way out of the way of accepting the constitution. It was with the idea of the State Council as a specific representative of local, social, economic and professional interests that the President of the Assembly and of the Constitutional Commission, Dr. Frances Bučar, was able to reach a political compromise, which even then did not enjoy wider professional support or affection." That's what Mr. Cerar said. So much so that you won't say we're just in a coalition against the State Council. When I discussed in my position, I talked about the fact that the State Council had tried many times to end or transform itself, and that they did so – and I will now use the word that Mr Brulc had previously used when I left the speaker's desk, I called – in various ways they prevented 'the uncle from the background'. Maybe it's right for me to say the definition of "backstairs." I understand this as an influential citizen who in various ways influences politics, Members, Ministers and others, but himself is not directly elected or directly involved in the current political, but with his strong influence he achieves that politics follows his interests. That no one will say that we're talking about "backside uncles" even though it's been a very popular expression lately. It was these "backward uncles" that, in all these 20 years, prevented this State Council from being abolished or transformed. It makes no sense for me to lose my words, why it was not necessary for a two-thirds majority, but I would like to say two words about what the opposition is now talking about – that the State Council should be transformed. In what and how? I am convinced that as many as Members of Parliament are likely to be proposals for the transformation of the State Council or that everyone is looking at this matter differently. Some of you say it needs to be transformed into a congregation of landscapes. When is this gonna happen? When do we get the provinces? Twenty years from now, fifteen years from now, I can never do that. And it seems to me that this congregation of landscapes is just some sort of excuse to get along in time. Others say that there are now no more double officials, mayors and Members in this House, and it is therefore right that local interests be represented in another home. Okay. The argument seems to be understandable at first sight. County, I think it's 213. Are we going to have another home with 213 members? Already, those of us in Parliament, in the 90th National Assembly, are telling us that there are too many of us. Mr Ivan Vogrinec is even a little radical and says that we should be reduced by half or 40. I can't imagine the State Council with 213 members. If you say, no, no, no, those municipalities that have a thousand inhabitants and something else do not really need their representative in the State Council, then again the question is, how do the mayors or representatives of the local interest divide into who is entitled to sit in the State Council and who is not? Someone will say that they should be just representatives or mayors of city halls. Why is that? Why not hear a small local community as well? Why am I saying this? This is because when we talk about how to transform the State Council, many more questions are asked than answers. And that this transformation is much more complicated and much more difficult than the abolition itself. And because of a variety of 'backside uncles' political interests, I have the feeling that the State Council will exist even when I am gone, because it will simply never be possible to get this two-thirds majority. To finish, all I'd say is that the elections aren't that far back yet. If you look at the pre-election programs, you will find that some parties have changed their position. Why, they know for themselves, but I'm sorry that they do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz is next. Get ready, Dr. Gregor Virant, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I have expressed doubts about the need in the Constitutional Commission since the beginning of this mandate, about some Slovenian form of duplicity, which is in fact not, we all agree on this, but in spite of this introductory statement, I must say that I will abstain in this vote. This is due to the lack of uniformity of Slovenian policy in such a significant decision or decision as the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. To be honest, then, I must point out that most of the arguments in favour of the abolition of the State Council also persist in my opinion. And I also believe that a second home in a type of country such as Slovenia is in fact not needed in the long term. Personally, I think that as a home of local interests, it can also be quite a dilemma as to how to actually make this happen, because automation is not logical. For me, it is also a questionable method of retraining into a country's home if these provinces were, since the objective of the provinces or the actions of the provincial councils is decentralisation rather than some concentration within the framework of the decision-making. There's a lot of dilemma about that. There is no doubt also a problematic way to elect the membership of the State Council. We have to admit that the institute was being abused, there's no doubt about it. There have been these dilemmas in me since the beginning, and they are now, but I do not think we are ready to make this important decision. In fact, there are a lot of votes missing. I am sure that the matter will still need to be resolved and that a number of substantive solutions will need to be considered. The financial impact in what is also mentioned is not relevant to me. Perhaps, in particular, there is a minimum added value in this case. And I wouldn't even go into it to argue about it. Of course, it is not possible to deny completely any added value at the substantive level, and democratic decision-making in the legislative process has been possible, so we cannot rule that out altogether. However, as I have already pointed out, the dilemmas are greater, particularly in favour of the concept that the State Council should either be restructured or restructured. Why, I do not personally see certain ways or levers or actually need to be done in the long run. But at this point, as I have already pointed out, I will not vote in favour, but I will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant as a proponent. Get Mr. Roman Zveglich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u26	Thank you. My debate will not be a replica of Dr Gönch, because I understand him that as a representative of the national community here he does not want to play this role to be put on one side or the other. But it's the answer to a couple, not the arguments, but the excuses for not supporting the abolition of the State Council. The first very common excuse is that the Constitution needs to be changed with a shaking hand. But we have a little too much shaking hands with these constitutional changes. We all know that on some points the Slovenian Constitution needs to be rectified, that 20 years have passed and that some shortcomings have emerged and that referendum arrangements, the Council of State, the judiciary and other areas need to be addressed. But whatever we do, they start everywhere, they start shaking your hands so hard that we can't make a deal. And it seems to me that he will pass his term again, and the constitution will remain exactly as it is. Shake your hand. When we see something's wrong, stop. And it needs to be changed. That's when you have to have a firm hand, not a shake. If our hands shake too much, we'll have problems. Another excuse is, rather than abolishing the State Council, let us try to transform it into a congregation of regions, into a congregation of municipalities, in short, in order to be slightly different in order to restructure it, to change jurisdiction, the relationship between the National Assembly and the Council of State, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and so on. That reminds me of an old French proverb. The French like to say: Plus ça change, plus c'est la mumme chose. If I translate, the more it changes, the more it's the same thing. So we'd like to change so that the point remains the way it is today. We've had a constitution for over 20 years. We don't have a 250-year-old tradition of constitutionality, like the United States, for example. We don't have the 200-year tradition of constitutionality that France has. We don't need to be trapped in some shackles of tradition because we're a young country. And after twenty years, we can descend into an institution like the State Council, for which sparrows on trees chirp that they are unnecessary. Ask some people. The vast majority of people in this country are in favour of abolishing the State Council. And someone will also say that the National Assembly has been abolished. That's not true. You underestimate people. People know that laws must be adopted that we need an institution in which the democratic will of the people is expressed, despite all the flaws and anomalies that the National Assembly has, but not underestimated. The fact that the State Council is unnecessary, I have a large majority of people thinking rationally. However, I fear that it will not be rational to think in this house when voting on the abolition of the State Council. Then excuse me if this isn't the right time. Yes, sometimes, if not now that the mandate of the State Council has expired. It's an ideal opportunity. If we were to do this in the middle of a mandate, break the mandate of the State Council, dissolve it, and so forth, we would say, yes, of course, you have a grudge against the current President, you have a grudge against the current members, how can you send them home? That is why it is an ideal opportunity to do so by the end of one term. The state world ends this term beautifully, elegantly, in the fall, and then it is simply gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues! All these debates about the abolition of the State Council – or I agree with the predecessor, it is the perfect time to end, but we are too late to reshape, that is absolutely. Now, as I will vote, I have not yet made a clear decision on my own, although the Group of Members opposes the abolition. It would be easier for me to vote down if, of course, we had regions, if we had other matters, but not least, if we could still be mayors. Now that we don't have any of this, I think we need another security guard, even if it's not the best. If in the final stage, I'm going to say, let's ignore everything else, and if only two or three laws that need to be rectified, I think something has already done. I would agree, once again, with the abolition of the Council of State if there were regions, if there were a regional Slovenia covered and represented and if the mayors could still be Members. This is also how I will decide on the basis of these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, get Mr. Mirko Brulc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor! Even in my name a nice greeting and, of course, because I cannot say on behalf of the parliamentary group, on behalf of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! In principle, the arguments put forward by the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant, hold back. The country needs to be made thin, rationalized, spent as much as it can be created. And above all, hold the argument if we compare ourselves with other EU countries, that we must be comparable in all areas, even though we are not. Then it is usually so in politics – so in principle I agree, things need to be corrected – that the word 'but' appears. And that's where the trouble comes in. In fact, if the argument is rationalisation and other arguments, then I do not know why we hired an additional thousand 253 employees in the public sector this year, and on the other hand we are lowering wages and people are already living hard. The arguments, as stated by the motioner, can be cited precisely in my proposal to the President of the National Assembly to make the Slovenian Parliament comparable to the European Parliament and to move from 90 Members to 50. In Slovenia, we have a million people of 45. Austria, our neighbouring country, 22, Germany approximately 8, Italy 10. Wouldn't it suggest using the same criteria here? And the question arises to me, what is wrong with us, that we use so different criteria. So if our sincere intention is to make the state of Slovenia one where all citizens can live, then let us do it in all areas, but not only in part where it suits someone. And look, any other opinion from one dominant or, I would say, currently ruling, is condemned to some sort of conviction. I am glad that the human party that is a member of the coalition has a different opinion. And the number of Members in this Chamber shows that we are very uneven, that we have not yet experienced the catastrophe crisis, like many of our citizens living on an existing minimum. When that happens and when we feel it in Parliament, we will be able to do so. I agree that the country has been overrated, as Mr Richard Braniselj has stated, but let us start to make it leaner, more effective in all areas, not just one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Mirko Brulc's turn. Get ready, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much for a minute. The way this House works is a disgrace to democracy and a disgrace to that country. We're changing the constitution in front of an empty hall. The French president said the constitution was carved into stone. Ours is written on paper or what? The state council is the only one to stop the coalition's bulldozer roaring for at least a short time. I'm in favour of changing the composition of the State Council, but I'm not in favour of abolishing it, because it's all against it. And let's stop playing with this country. Last night we sat here, we were 7, 8, today we're changing the constitution, we're thinking of Positive Slovenia, where the coalition is, and we're really playing with this country, and I'm ashamed. I went home sad after last night's session, because it's not a job. We are adopting laws to regulate the lives of these citizens and citizens. Who accepts them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, prepare Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Have a nice hello again! More than trying to improve the legislative process, with legislative initiatives, the State Council, in its 20 years of operation, has been pushing ghosts with affairs, with irregularities in wages payments, in public procurement and, last but not least, in meetings, which are even phenomenal. 600 euros of permanent meetings belong to state councilors whether they show up in the State Council in that month or not. Such arrangements are unfair to the type of workers who do not receive this amount for a month of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Virant, as a motioner, please. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh. I'm sorry. You don't have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u36	Mr Brulc says we are discussing changes to the constitution in front of an empty hall. See how many Members of your Group are sitting in the Chamber? Three. Four. Well, since 10:00. How many Members and Members of the Civil Code are sitting in the Chamber? Everybody!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Hršak. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. There's not always a need for crowds, sometimes there's something else. We have been in pre-election periods, in fact all the parties we have come to the National Assembly have started with some rationalisation project. I think that the planned Jankovic coalition and the current Janšev coalition put rationalisations in the state system, in the state administration, at a high level. And I think that both proposals of the coalition treaties also contain solutions for the abolition of the State Council. Both. What has changed since then is that one party representing the largest party in the National Assembly would change so radically and say that they would not change now, but slightly later, or not change so, but slightly differently. This is now a fundamental starting point, practically for all the laws and constitutional proposals we have on the table. Not now, but a little later, although we agree. And not the way you expect it to be, but a little different. And this initiative of Positive Slovenia belongs to this category "not so, but slightly different." This rationalisation or proposal proposed by Positive Slovenia is invalid because it is an elephant in the composition of the State Council, which lacks the realization of a constitutional solution, that is to say, a provincial part. And to condition a solution or support for the proposal by supporting their proposal, which is disabled, is probably inappropriate. We will support this proposal to amend the Constitution or to abolish the Council of State. I'd like to draw attention to another fact. Those who are representatives of interests in the State Council are involved in many areas of operation of this country, directly. In the Economic Social Council, as representatives of interest associations, they form proposals for government laws. On the other hand, they're in the State Council, waiting for something to be taken in the National Assembly to veto. Same people. Same people. And thirdly, they're fighting to be in the governing bodies, in corporations, like Kadu or Kada companies and so on. Therefore, this system is ineffective because it is such a materially intertwined system cannot work. There's a whole bunch of conditional blockades in this system and we can't do anything in a clean way. First, you are involved in redrafting the bill or laws from certain areas, waiting at the end for what is being adopted, with a veto proposal – and now this is also happening in two areas, right now – and finally they are participating in the management bodies of companies. It's an uncontrollable system. And it is those who do not have property in these companies, but only want to have rights to participate, how certain things will be regulated. I think it is the duty of Members that it is the duty of the State to arrange these things, to make certain things transparent, to say transparent. And if they're transparent, there's a lot of chance they'll be effective. Until systems are transparent, they will never be effective, never because there are no elementary conditions. I agree with the need to take a step in this area, this first step is the abolition of the State Council. It is also necessary to take a second step, to develop the landscape system that is enshrined in the constitution, and to implement the first round of decentralisation of the country, to transfer what does not belong to the state level at a lower level, to bring it closer to the provincial and local environment, and to enable them to manage it, because it is probably repeated and also proven that the benefits of resources at lower levels are significantly better than at some common level where everything is disguised. If we are to introduce this landscape system, then there is no problem in joining the provincial regime in one way or another with representatives of local interests, either mayors or those under the authority of the mayors. That's where their role is possible. In some ways, however, it is illogical that we do not have and should not be mayors in the lower house, but the mayors can be in the upper house and decide, they are part of the decision-making process on certain solutions, laws and so on. What we accepted, and what some so vehemently supported, would separate the mayors who were supposed to privilege their degraded environment, the peripheral environment from decision making, was a half-step, the other half stayed in the upper house. This solution is not consistent. I think that these matters need to be regulated, that a constitutional solution needs to be implemented to the end, with regard to landscape regulation, to regulate these matters or to eliminate them, to transfer them to administrative units in some local governance system, that is, in fact, logically, that we do not have some duality at a lower local level and so on. I think it is our duty to try to realize what we have set ourselves. It is the duty of those who have similar ambitions to do the same things, and it is also likely that they will help in this matter. If a different coalition is formed and you come up with a proposal to abolish the State Council, we will support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that again. This is a good time to discuss this issue, this is what we are saying about this proposal to abolish the Council of State, so that this comment did not come from our side, and we are opposed to the abolition of the Council of State. The fact is that the State Council is at some crossroads, that it is at some crossroads, and that some organization, the reorganisation of the State Council, will absolutely have to be done. Given that the elections in the State Council are also held in the autumn, it is also on the ground that this topic opened at this very time. However, this time is important for other things at this time. When it comes to changing the Constitution, in the People's Party it seems more important to us at this time that the golden fiscal rule, which has been so much talk lately, is introduced into the constitution. This, of course, is given a significantly higher priority in the People's Party and, last but not least, the amendment of the referendum legislation, which is in fact necessary. But, no, it's right that we also opened up this subject, the abolition of the State Council. I am sorry that this very important point of this extraordinary session is hampered by such an important topic by the biggest opposition party, Positive Slovenia. I am sorry, in particular, for the fact that Positive Slovenia has been thinking about the abolition of the State Council, perhaps as well as in the People's Party, in terms of the reorganisation of the State Council. Although we are in the final stage, as far as this is concerned, quite different. Such a reorganisation of the State Council, as proposed by the Positive Slovenia, is, of course, only made sense when the provinces were established in Slovenia. The fact is that this provincial legislation was very well prepared in the 2004-2008 mandate, that we finally laid the groundwork for the adoption of this provincial legislation by amending the Constitution, but unfortunately then the political will to do so was lacking. We in the People's Party will continue to make every effort in this mandate to actually draw that provincial legislation out of naphthalene and to face this story very seriously in this mandate. The fact is, we still need the landscapes and, of course, we can get through the landscapes to an authority, to an institution that would replace what we are currently missing, and what we now see in the State Council is called the representation of local interests. Otherwise, it is only right that this topic opened at this time, the right time, only a real shame that we are no longer in the hall in such an important darkness. This would show some serious and responsible position of Members on this important topic. The change of constitution, as I said earlier in the introduction, is so long and so far gone. A thorough preparation should be made for the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioners, Dr. Gregor Virant. Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u42	I'm going to touch this famous hand-shaking parable a little bit more. The moon shows that we have too many referendums in Slovenia and that this institution has been abused and that politics has used it as its toy for mutual client bills, but when it has to be agreed that they should be limited, someone always starts shaking hands. Now the deadline of Positive Slovenia has been shaken, for example, we would like to postpone it to 2015, although we have already agreed. Then, from the moon, we are the only country in Europe, except maybe Romania, Bulgaria, where judges are appointed by the National Assembly, politics, but again, because we have a shaking hand when we change the constitution, it will take another 50, 100 years, forever. It is clear to all, in particular all financial experts, that a fiscal rule, if enshrined in the Constitution, would create credibility as a country in order to improve our ratings so that our interest rates would fall and so on. But once again, the entire opposition, the almost complete opposition, will shake so much that it will not go through. And sparrows, as I said before, on the trees are chirping that the State Council is an unnecessary institution that brings no added value. We all know that, the vast majority of people think that, all public research shows that, but again, some of the hands will shake. I suggest we don't go too far with this phrase. When something needs to be changed, it is necessary to call it a regulation or a regulation or a law or a constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing yes, that's why I'm collecting applications. Please sign up. Four reported, five minutes each. Mag. Majda Potrat,
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We demonstrate in our debates how critical we are of the variety of views. So much for the quality of democratic decision-making. A political party may have its position and therefore it does not need to be put on a pranger. As far as sparrows are concerned, there is also some sort of obsessive metaphor, what people think, then I would say that at the moment, it is decided to change the constitution without any prior thorough consideration in the professional public. The part of the population that enjoys the least confidence in people, according to public research, only the church is less trustworthy in Slovenian public opinion than political parties. So much for that. There is a list of 128 working bodies in the pit after removal, which the rulings have decided to abolish, even though they are also working bodies that must exist by law and are now being established and transformed into new ones because they have to work. In the pit after saving, after changing, by the thin state. Nobody closes their eyes before they block their decisions. Or, in fact, the State Council is the biggest blockade in decision-making, but it is the second question. And now putting someone on the pranger because they're pushing for change, not for abolition, it's not democratic for me, it's autocratic for me. Because you want us all to feel the same way. Why not think thoroughly about how this part of parliamentary democracy, called the State Council, can be transformed? After all, elections in the State Council can also accomplish something. A two-thirds majority is required for changes to the electoral law or elections to the State Council, as is the case for a change in the constitution. I think that direct elections would also be a step towards enhancing the reputation and acceptability of state councillors; they are a matter of negotiation. Now it's simplified to talk about the State Council as a representative of local interests, to see 213 mayors in the State Council. That's a lot of simplification. Who says local interests can only be represented by mayors? This argument that we do not know the state councilors – yes, you know, I would ask how many Members do people know by name and surname. Those who are party presidents or leaders of parliamentary groups who often perform in the media are known. However, a number of Members and Members are not known to people generally known. Thus, recognition can also be a very unrealistic and unacceptable argument. This is as if we demand from national television that ratings should be an argument to end or not to end any of the broadcasts. The talk was about the powers of the National Assembly and what it still calls judges. But, you know, the Romanian case, which was quoted, the Romanians have chandeliered the judicial branch of power. And after the chandeliers found that one of the fundamental weaknesses of their judicial system was the lack of experience of judges and also the method of appointment, and many more. Each thing can be viewed from one point of view or another, and the question is whether things are so comparable at first sight. There is a double home and there is a single home. Why should we now, because we are not all thinking the same way as we are trying to make one decision, because we cannot agree on any of the things in the National Assembly with 90 votes for? And why would my opinion be less valuable than yours, Mr. President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I don't think it's a replica. I suggest you end up with her as a proposalant. Otherwise, we have the rest of the time we've shared. It's mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u46	The financial impact of the abolition of the National Council at annual level is EUR 2 million. Great! However, if we take sides with the comparable countries of Europe and reduce the number of members of the National Assembly from 90 to 50, the financial impact will be significantly greater. So, I expect honesty on purpose to make a slim state. Such arguments, as on the proposal for a Council of State, are also for the amendment of Article 80 of the Constitution of Slovenia. And that's an essential argument. We're still shaking hands. Look, when I was mayor of Lenart Municipality, I once had a meeting of the municipal council obstructed by the saints. After a thorough reflection and analysis, I found that I was actually guilty, and I was responsible for leading matters from a position of power by using an argument of power, not the power of argument. I never let that happen again. I was once again elected mayor and allowed for a democratic debate. The fact that the hall is empty today is not so much a problem for those who are not, but for those who are, which means that, unfortunately, we are not able to handle things in such a way that people feel that they are also contributing to cooperation with their presence. Nothing else is expected in the democratic system. To be able to bend different arguments, then eventually someone has to make the last move, and so is – someone has to make a decision. But this democratic process must follow some normal course. And, of course, I expect this to be possible in the future. It is necessary to change the Constitution, for we all know this, a broad consensus. We must make sure that this consensus is reached. I have a feeling we're not trying hard enough and we're working from a position of power. Once again, if our intention is to make the country lean to rationalise it, then I expect an answer, and I will not say from who, all who are responsible for it, to my question, if I so express how it is possible that we have increased the number of public employees by a thousand 253 in all austerity measures, when we reduce all wages. It doesn't work together. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't working out. If I were speculating, I would say: 13 new ministers, each of them attracted 100 new employees, and there were about a thousand 300. But I don't know if this is the right way. If we are talking about the country being pre-sealed and we are going into the process of abolishing the State Council, then we must pursue this in all areas. Let's be honest and do what we say. Not in one segment, but in all segments. Then it won't be easy for people, like my colleague Dr. Göncz, to say: I will abstain. This will not vote, the other will abstain and, of course, will not have those effects, those decisions taken that should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. This debate today, although in the semi-empty hall, has convinced me to speak anyway and to express my opinion on whether I am in favour of abolishing the State Council or not. I believe that our country is a small country and that our country's parliamentary system is pre-mixed. I am convinced that the National Assembly could work with a smaller number of Members, as has already been said in several debates today, and in particular the parliamentary system and democracy would be sufficient to end the State Council. The Council of State as the second house of Parliament, with its current role, powers and work, in my opinion, does not really contribute to the functioning of the country's parliamentary system. If we compare the organisation of the parliamentary system of other comparable countries, the conclusion is that the second home in our parliamentary system is not necessary, is indisputable. At a time when we are squandering financial resources at all levels, saving 2 million euros, if we end the State Council, is not a negligible item. Look, we have also given up certain privileges, and with them we do not know how much we have contributed to improving the state of our budget, but we have contributed something and we have shown our will to sacrifice something to improve the financial situation in the budget. Therefore, I believe that it is also important that we abolish this State Council and that we save these funds. Of course, we do not all feel the same way about the abolition of the State Council. Some of our eminent lawyers too have the view that it is not good to remove it for various reasons, but I think it is acceptable that we also have a different opinion in the profession. The opinion that local representatives should be brought to the National Council by means of a reorganisation is that the mayors who no longer have the opportunity to run for Members do not convince me. The answer is that it is necessary to organise regions to which both the State and the municipalities are to transfer certain powers. Mr Tanko also discussed this in his debate today. I am convinced that this step that we have decided to take to abolish the State Council is necessary. However, efforts must also be made to adopt appropriate rules on the organisation of regions. I would like to say one more sentence, putting the following opinion on the soul of all Members. I believe that we should make every effort to reach as much consensus in this area as possible and that this decision, which is proposed, should be voted on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Recognizing that the Republic of Slovenia is a young democratic country, recognizing that global society is a European society, and especially Slovenian society in exceptional dynamic and turbulent times, which calls for a new social model, according to the new social paradigm, it is necessary to consider changing the Slovenian Constitution. When we talk about changing the Slovenian Constitution with a shaking hand, I may understand this shaking hand slightly differently. This does not mean that we should not change the Constitution too often, it means exclusively, in my opinion, just that a thorough thought is needed. The frequent changes to the Constitution of me at this very moment do not interfere with this new social model. We have new content that I believe should be incorporated into the Slovenian Constitution: the State Council, the golden fiscal rule, the referendum regime, these are urgent matters that should be incorporated into the constitution as soon as possible. We have discussed this a lot and I do not accept the impression that we are in a hurry and that there was not enough room for discussion. It's the state's world. The Slovenian public is very much in favour of the abolition of the State Council. Why do we people choose not to listen to most of the Slovenian public? Therefore, I can logically conclude that those who do not have this corrosiveness to end the State Council do not listen to the Slovenian public sufficiently. That the moment isn't right because the elections in the State Council are in the fall. This is exactly the moment, and here I strongly agree with the proposaler, or else I can think differently. Those who say that the moment is not right, because the elections are, I ask you whether maybe any of your friends, colleagues, acquaintances, relatives will run, this is a very good and respectable position in the country. I also support the abolition of the Council of State, as we have it today, because it has already been said in today's debate that if I look at who sat down, not just now in this mandate, in all the mandates in the Council of State, then we actually see what power, in fact, certain state councilors have. The only thing a Member can do, and only the chosen ones among us 90, can do the so-called fifth work. The Councilman of State has the same power as the Member of Parliament, there is no problem in collecting enough votes and breaking the law with a veto. So I regret seeing that today there will not be sufficient support for a constitutional change towards the abolition of the State Council. Obviously we're too calculating, obviously we don't have enough crust. I regret this, too, and I think this is the first time in the history of the Slovenian Parliament that almost one third of Parliament is obstructing the entire session. If this is a concern for the country, then I really do not understand such a policy as the Positive Slovenia claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioners, Dr. Gregor Virant, but please don't hesitate, because no one can replicate you back.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u52	Sure. I would like to answer just one more argument, which I also consider an excuse not to vote in favour of abolishing the State Council. Let us not end the National Council because we do not halve the number of members of the National Assembly at the same time. For the first time today, we have a constitutional amendment to the abolition of the State Council. If the idea is to reduce the number of Members, it is worth considering in every way, but it is necessary to submit, to write, to elaborate, to collect the relevant signatures of support, to submit to the Constitutional Commission, and then we will discuss this. But we can't say now that we can't solve one problem because at the same time we can't solve a hundred others. It is our duty to solve problems and we cannot take the excuse that we will not solve the problem because we are not able to solve all the problems of this world or of this country at the same time. That's a pointless argument. And just to get it over with, Comrade Potrat, it'll be positive, so don't take it as an argument. I think it was a good debate, I think we have exchanged arguments and because some of you will press a button against, it is against the abolition of the State Council, you colleagues from Social Democracy and also the Slovenian People's Party will not be any less respected. If we are in the debate when we represent our views, sometimes we are a little passionate, you should not resent that, it is an integral part of the policy that you are a little more passionate about your position. But it doesn't mean we despise your position. We respect it and it's legitimate and there's no problem with it. And I would end by saying, until tonight, it's time to think again on the basis of everything we've heard, think again, think carefully and say bob beans and let's say the State Council is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to anti-competitive laws, reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government, this is mag to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Happy Zerjava. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, all of you! The Law was prepared because, when establishing the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition or the appointment of its authorities, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology concluded that the manner and procedures of establishment provided for by law did not allow for a reliable transition from the Office for the Protection of Competition to the Agency. Therefore, changes to the law are necessary to ensure that the office acting as a body within the Ministry is transformed as soon as possible. We were practically ahead of a blockade that couldn't be resolved. That's why this change is happening. The main solutions to the proposal relate to the Agency’s bodies, their appointment and competences. In accordance with the proposal, the Agency’s bodies are the Board of Agencies and the Director of the Agency. The proposal, however, repeals the Competition Protection Commission as a specific decision-making body, as the provisions of the Public Agencies Act do not provide for such an authority and do not even know it in other agencies. According to the proposal, the Council of the Agency is a five-member body whose members are appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, which constitutes an amendment to the current regime. In fact, according to the current arrangement, the members of the Board of the Agency are appointed by the Government. Decision-making tasks in the administrative procedure of the amendment shall be delegated to a Chamber composed of all members of the Council, including the Director of the Agency, who shall participate in the decision-making process in accordance with the proposal as an expert in the field of competition protection. Proposal to retain the powers of the Board of the Agency under the applicable arrangements, such as the adoption of general acts of the Agency, the adoption of the annual report of the Agency, the annual work programme, the financial plan, the accounts and other acts for which the Agency is required to adopt them. In a new proposal, it provides that the Board shall appoint members of the Board of Criminal Procedure on a case-by-case basis on a proposal from the Director. It also provides that public servants employed by the Agency may be members of the Council. The Director of the Agency shall also be the President of the Council. The proposal does not specify the exact composition of the Council or the number of members according to the criterion of whether the Council member is an agency employee or an external member. The proposal also introduces an amendment to the manner in which the Director is appointed, providing that the Director of the Agency is appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. In accordance with the current regulation, however, the Director shall be appointed by the Government. It is thus intended to ensure that the Agency is as independent as possible of the executive branch. Until the appointment of the Director of the Agency, the Director of the Agency shall be acting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of the Committee, Mr Srečko Meh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Economy is at its 12th emergency meeting. 7. Considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Restriction of Competition. The Chair's College is at the 21st session of 29. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be considered following an urgent procedure, and the same decision was taken by the State Assembly at its 5th meeting. This year's 9th. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which notes that the proposed regulation deviates significantly from the system regime in the Law on Public Agencies. He then made specific comments to individual articles, namely 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 16, 18, 20, and to the transitional provisions of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to all others, which I have previously listed, except for Article 3. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce and the Legal and Legislative Services attended the meetings of the Committee. At the meeting, the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that most of the specific comments made in the written opinion of the services were taken into account in the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups. In particular, he drew attention to comments that were not taken into account in the amendments concerning the non-systemic derogation from the provisions of the Public Agencies Act. The discussion on individual articles of the bill raised the question of the meaning of the reorganisation, in particular in terms of additional costs and staff, and highlighted the possibility of conflict of interest. The question was also raised as to whether a comprehensive analysis of the current functioning of the Office had been carried out. In response, the Minister explained about the personnel that there would be no new employment, but there would be a staff reinforcement of the Office or the Agency with redeployments from the Ministry. With regard to the reasons for the reorganisation, he stressed that the Office has so far proved to be ineffective, which is also the result of an analysis or review of the administrative procedures of the Office so far. In doing so, the Secretary of State stressed that Slovenia had already committed itself to reorganisation at the time of entry into the OECD, which marked the current regime whereby the Ministry responsible for the economy also controlled or protected competition. The Minister and the Secretary of State also provided more detailed explanations as to the derogation from the provisions of the Law on Public Agencies. With regard to the analysis of the current functioning of the Office and the resulting agencies, the Secretary of State stressed that the analyses had been carried out and that good practice had been established in the functioning of the Securities Market Agency. The debate raised how the Government, given the possibility of derogating from the OECD guidelines, took into account the fact that the Chamber is composed of members of the Council, including the Director of the Agency, who is also the President of the Council. On this issue, the Secretary of State explained that the person conducting the procedure or having any conflict of interest would be excluded from the decision-making process, which would also apply to the Director of the Agency. A proposal for an amendment to Article 3 of the Committee was also put forward in the debate, setting out a public vote on the members of the Council and a proposal for an amendment to Article 10 setting out a public vote on the candidate for the Director of the Agency. Both amendments have been adopted and are reflected in the report of the Committee. The Committee's amendment to Article 4 was also tabled at the meeting, which is also apparent. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the new 20a by 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 13th, 16th, 20th. Article 21 and Article 22 of the draft law. The amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 4 has become irrelevant. The amendment of the parliamentary group to Article 12 was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 193 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u58	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention and Restriction of Competition is another law in the package that we adopt this week, which will improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in particular. The bill mainly provides for more efficient and rational governance. The proposal for a law removes uncertainties regarding the establishment of the Agency's bodies, which appear in practice. The Commission for the Protection of Competition, as a specific decision-making body, is hereby repealed and its powers are delegated to the Council of the Agency or to the Senate. The proposal will allow for the earliest possible launch of the functioning of an independent competition authority and, consequently, the establishment of an independent and independent agency. The functioning of an independent and independent competition authority is essential to ensure effective competition on the market and thus to ensure an appropriate business environment for the competitive functioning of operators on the market. The policy objective is to ensure that it adopts such legislation that will have a positive impact on the functioning of the Slovenian economy. We estimate that this law makes this possible, and therefore the SDS Group will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Meh on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u60	In accordance with the proposal, the Council of the Agency shall be a five-member body appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, which shall constitute an amendment in the light of the arrangements in force whereby the members of the Board of the Agency are appointed by the Government. A change in the way they are appointed is necessary in order to ensure greater independence of the appointment of the executive branch, as the members of the Board of Agencies are involved in decision-making in individual cases in which the Agency may, in accordance with the law, conduct procedures and decide on possible infringements of the law by undertakings in which the Republic of Slovenia is a participating capital. The members of the Council shall be appointed for a period of five years and may be reappointed. The proposal retains the powers of the Board of the Agency, such as the adoption of the general acts of the Agency, the adoption of the annual report, the annual programme of the financial plan, the closure of the accounts and other acts for which the law provides that they shall be adopted by the Agency. In addition, the proposal repeals the Commission for the Protection of Competition and its decision-making tasks in the administrative procedure, which shall be forwarded to a Chamber composed of all members of the Council, including the Director of the Agency. However, for the purpose of deciding on the criminal procedure, the Council shall appoint a Board of Members of the Council and staff of the Agency for each case, who shall be given an examination for the management and decision of the offence. The draft law also lays down the conditions for members of the Board of the Agency. It has been determined that members of the Council may also be civil servants. The Director of the Agency shall act as President of the Council. The proposal does not specify the exact composition of the Council or the number of members according to the criterion of whether a member of the Council is an employee of an agency or an external member. It shall only specify that the total number of members shall be five. The proposal introduces an amendment to the appointment of the Director of the Agency, which is to be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. When a proposal for a law provides for the Director of the Agency to appoint and dismiss the National Assembly, the Agency's independence from the executive branch is sought as far as possible. While the Director represents and represents the Agency, he manages its business and organises its work. The proposal also redefines that the Director participates in the decision-making of the administrative procedure, but may also be involved in the decision-making of the criminal procedure, with the appointment of a special three-member Chamber between members of the Council and employees in the manner laid down in the Rules of Procedure for each case. With regard to all other acts issued by the Director in the current regulation, there are no amendments to the proposed regulation. The Director of the Agency shall remain in charge of issuing all other acts to an unaltered extent. The proposal for a law in accordance with the explanation allows for a smooth transformation of the office into an agency. Social Democrats had a problem with the solutions to the law, where the Senate is composed of members of the Council, including the director of the agency, who is also president. This could also contribute to the decision-making of specific cases, which is contrary to the OECD guidelines. The separation of the directoral function, which initiates the procedure and issues all relevant acts, such as the summary of relevant facts, and the decision-making functions according to the OECD, enhances the independence of the Agency. With regard to this problem, it should be noted that the Government has found a solution whereby a person leading the procedure or having any conflict of interest would be excluded from the decision-making process, which would also apply to the Director of the Agency. Because of this Social Democrats, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Komar, on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, distinguished Minister! The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act governs the establishment of a Competition Protection Office within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and its transformation into a stand-alone and independent agency with the status of a person of public law. All tasks and responsibilities carried out by the Office shall be delegated to the newly established agency. At the same time, the draft law does not depart from the principles established by the basic law and its amendments to date. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition removes uncertainties regarding the establishment of Agency bodies which have emerged in practice. The Commission for the Protection of Competition, as a specific decision-making body, is hereby repealed and its powers are delegated to the Council of the Agency or to the Senate. The main solutions relate to the Agency’s bodies, their designation and their competences. The independence and expertise of the Agency are particularly stressed in this regard. Since we believe that the functioning of an independent and independent competition authority is crucial in order to ensure effective competition on the market and thus to ensure an appropriate business environment for the competitive functioning of operators on the market, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u64	Your Honor, good afternoon! Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the amendment of the law which provides for the establishment or transformation of the Office into a more effective and independent competition agency. The purpose of the law is clear and the solutions are professionally justified and ensure the effective functioning of the Agency. These two facts justify derogations from the system regime under the Law on Public Agencies. The urgency of amending the law and reorganising the office or agency is justified by the analysis or review of the administrative procedures of the office so far, which has been completely ineffective. It is also a fact that Slovenia committed itself to reorganising competition protection when it joined the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which has now seen the current regulation in Slovenia. We therefore believe that the current regime needs to be changed. In addition, the actual functioning of the Agency and its bodies has not yet been achieved despite numerous amendments to the law. The independence of the members of the Council and the Director of the Agency will be ensured by the appointment of members of the National Assembly, while the expertise of the members of the Council may also be public servants. With regard to the problem of incompatibility, it is appropriate to ensure that the potential incompatibility or conflict of interest is eliminated from decision-making, which would also apply to the Director of the Agency. It is also convincing to assure the Minister that there will be no new employment, that the Agency's staffing support will be provided through redeployments from the Ministry. Members of the Slovenian People's Party certainly support the effective functioning of the authorities and agencies, so we also support the amendment of the law, which will allow for an independent and more efficient work of the competition agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! In the past year, two amendments to this Act have been adopted with a view to transforming the Competition Protection Office into an independent, independent agency to be excluded from the Ministry of the Economy. It was the intention of the first novel. This should ensure greater operational, financial, organisational and professional independence of the competition authority. The transformation into an independent agency was also one of the OECD recommendations and good practices on the independence of competition authorities in most of the European Union are to be followed. The intention of the second, last year's adopted novel was to establish a mechanism in case the agency was not prepared to operate with 1. 1. 2012, which was set the planned deadline. Even after the entry into force of this last novelty, the appointment of members of the Competition Commission has not yet taken place, and the legal conditions for the entry into force of the Agency have not been met when not all the bodies of the Agency have been formed. The proposer of this law, i.e. the Government, has re-approached the amendments to the law in order to resolve problems with the establishment of the Agency's bodies and the establishment and provision of conditions for the early transformation of the Office into a separate agency. Thus, the main solutions to the proposal are aimed at improving the law in the light of the current regulation and relate to the Agency's authorities, their appointment and their powers. The Council of the Agency shall remain in place, changing the way in which it is appointed, moving into the domain of the National Assembly, which is better from the point of view of the independence of membership in relation to the executive branch of the Authority. The same amendment and for the same reason shall also be provided for in the appointment of the Director of the Agency. In addition to the existing powers of the Board of Agencies, the Council is still expanding, taking over all the powers that the Competition Protection Commission is supposed to have after the present regulation. This body is no longer envisaged under the new proposal. The new regulation in this respect follows the general regulation under the Law on Public Agencies and the regulation of the Securities Market Agency. The functioning of an independent and independent competition authority is essential to ensure effective competition on the market and thus to ensure an appropriate business environment for the competitive functioning of operators on the market. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! With amendments to the Competition Prevention Act, we will lay the groundwork for a new public agency that will work to protect a competitive economic environment. All the powers of the current Competition Protection Office will be transferred to the new agency. Greater independence will also try to ensure that members of the Council and the Director of the Agency are elected by the National Assembly. The basic objective of the proposed law-makers in the creation of a new agency was to ensure the functioning of an independent and independent body as soon as possible, which, by ensuring conditions of competition, can provide an appropriate business environment. This law is linked at this point to a package of some other laws that we are considering at this meeting, which are designed to create the basic conditions that the economy and also small entrepreneurs need in order to be able to operate effectively and efficiently. In Novi Slovenije, before the elections, we designed our economic programme, which we called the return to the Slovenian economy of competitiveness. We have seen the lack of competitiveness as an acute problem of the Slovenian economy. We need to enable people and businesses to work and thus use their knowledge and abilities. Only successful companies, craftsmen and workers stand our social security, material survival, culture, health and so on. The responsibility to ensure conditions where the economy can function normally is, of course, also and particularly on the legislative branch of government. Members and Members of the New Slovenia are aware of this responsibility and we will therefore support the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, that is to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear fellow minister, Secretary of State, all present! At the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space with the amendment of this law, we are somehow combining all the funds intended to subsidise public transport in various ministries. These are funds intended to subsidise the transport of students and students. The bill ensures access to education, in particular equality in this accessibility to all students and students, and of course aims to promote the use of public passenger transport and thus the sustainable mobility of the young generation. The modified system for subsidising monthly tickets for students and students is a joint project of several ministries, in addition to our Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. For the implementation of subsidised transport, €39 million will be provided for this year in line with the budget balance. In spite of the fact that we are in some way expanding this field, we are counting that we should not exceed this quota of funds. As I mentioned, from various investments, we pool resources for subsidies in one place and try to ensure, without increasing the resources available, accessibility to public transport at a favourable price for all students and students, including the use of urban transport, where negotiations on appropriate levels of subsidisation are still under way, but I am sure that we will successfully complete them. Amendments to the law provide students and students with the possibility of buying a monthly ticket for beneficiaries who drive daily from place of residence to place of education, at a price of 20, 30 and 50 euros, depending on the distance. 20 euros where this distance is up to 60 kilometers, 30 where between 60 and 90 kilometers and over 90 kilometers is the price of this ticket 50 euros. On the other hand, buying a monthly ticket for a maximum of 10 tickets for beneficiaries who are staying at the place of education during education, in this case the price is €15. There are two conditions for obtaining the right to a subsidised ticket. Status of student or student and at least 5 km away from the place of residence from the place of education. Beneficiaries will be able to exercise the right to subsidised transport in cross-border, bus and rail transport. We are very close to agreements, as I said, that urban transport can also be included in this subsidised regime in the two largest urban municipalities. During the first period of the introduction of a new system of monthly tickets for pupils and students, they will be separated from the carriers and the beneficiary will have to decide for one of them on relations where more carriers are possible. Exceptions will, of course, be combined tickets for those who cannot be brought from home to destination with one means of transport or carrier. The Ministry shall encourage interconnection between carriers in order to enable the passenger to use the most convenient transport, regardless of where the carrier buys the ticket. The draft law introduces the Register of subsidised transport solely in order to enable the Ministry responsible for transport to have an effective monitoring and professional control tool for the entire ticket system and the possibility of monitoring operators carrying out transport operations. Your Honor! I invite you to support this bill. The new law was to be established this year, for students from 1 September this year and for students from 1 October this year. At the Ministry, we are convinced that this is an important step, which will be followed by the next steps on the road to the implementation of an integrated ticket in public passenger transport. These experience gained through the implementation of this project will also be a valuable basis for continuing integration and a valuable basis for the final implementation of the project and the integration of public passenger transport, which has been under way for several years, as you know, since 2007. Our serious aim is to try to bring this integration into force by means of accelerated procedures in 2014, thereby bringing public transport closer to users and, on the other hand, to ensure the long-term financial stability of some of our carriers, especially the largest, these are Slovenian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The Infrastructure and Space Committee is at its 10th emergency meeting. Seven. 2012 addressed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal to deal with it under an urgent procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The amendment was tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. In an introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, said that the proposed law took over the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space with the task of subsidising the transport of students and students. Beneficiaries for the purchase of a subsidised monthly ticket are investors with student status, adult education participant and student who resides at least 5 kilometres from the place of education. The draft law gives the right to purchase subsidies for monthly tickets for beneficiaries travelling from their place of residence to their place of education on a daily basis and the right to purchase a subsidised monthly ticket for a maximum of 10 trips per month for beneficiaries staying in the place of education during education. The right to a subsidy relates to monthly tickets in the public line transport of passengers and constitutes a new form of transport subsidy for beneficiaries. At the time of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that their comments relate, in particular, to the nominal aspects of the proposed legislative text and to the warnings regarding the provisions on the processing and collection of sensitive data. The comments were largely taken into account in the amendments tabled. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposal for a law. The Commission agrees that the solutions proposed are an appropriate way to promote the use of public passenger transport, while adding that the problem of poor use of public passenger transport is complex and therefore a harmonised inter-resort policy needs to be pursued. In addition, the quality and accessibility of public transport must be ensured at the same time as the proposed amendments. In the discussion on the articles of the bill, the members of the committee expressed their support for the bill and considered the objectives and objectives pursued by the proposed solutions as positive. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the debate and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Marinič on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a road transport law, given that the content of the proposal has taken into account what was necessary. This is a content that takes a more rational approach to regulating this area. It is therefore an economy, an economy, an efficiency and, last but not least, an end to some of the unnecessary administrative procedures that have been in place so far. With 1. 9. 2012 and 1, respectively. Ten. 2012 for students will be able to easily buy uniform tickets at a subsidised price, which will also help to reduce the family budget burden, given that the uniform subsidised tickets are divided into three categories, depending on the distance from the place of residence to the place of education, education, into three groups. In the first group, up to €60 km 15 and up to €90 km 30 and over €50. Of course, it is justified here, as the Minister has already stated in his explanation, that those who carry out public transport, namely bus carriers, rail carrier, national transport, should now be organised, and there is also competition for bus carriers. And in view of the opportunities that students and students also benefit from at a time when there are no formal lessons or lectures, bus carriers can take advantage of this field and offer both students and students the opportunity and attract them. Of course, here will be some of the dilemmas and some of the content that have now been addressed mainly by larger municipalities that have organised public transport in cities at the expense of the municipal budget, even in a situation where they can upgrade it. We believe that this is a good solution, even because it is now under one roof, i.e. under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. So far, this has been divided into three ministries, with the Ministry now playing a key role, including the Ministry of Education, Science, Education and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Now it's only one ministry in charge. As the Minister has also explained, it is not an additional resource, it is a resource that has been planned in line with the budget's balance sheet and is now integrated. The value that the country will provide in the budget is around €40 million. We are confident that this will be enough for what the content of the proposed Road Transport Act wanted to achieve. We expect to support this uniformly, as is the case now, and thus enable the purchase of tickets for students and students with a new school or study year at subsidised prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u76	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. More than two years ago, three sectoral ministries launched a project aimed at establishing a uniform and transparent system for subsidising the transport of students and students, which will allow greater control over the use of public funds and increased use of public passenger transport, resulting in a reduction of negative environmental impacts. I must say that we will be supporting the amendment of the Road Transport Act in the Social Democrats Group, as it enables all students and students who meet the conditions within the distance class to purchase a monthly ticket at a uniform price in order to ensure access to education. An additional reason for supporting this novelty is the fact that in Slovenia, in the field of pollution with small dust particles – an important source of pollution is uncontrolled individual transport – in some ways we are already jeopardising the health of our citizens and citizens. Such measures also reduce this risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, less and less people use public passenger transport. The professional public warns that road traffic is also increasing fuel consumption, accidents, congestion, environmental degradation and greenhouse and other health emissions of harmful gases. The increased use of public passenger transport would certainly ease any of these problems, if not solved. The fact is that rail and bus lines are being cut off, existing lines are both spatial and time-discoordinated, and more settlements are becoming inaccessible through public passenger transport. The existing public passenger transport system is increasingly inefficiencies and inefficiencies, the quality of stay and mobility are deteriorating for a large part of the population. The current poor economic situation may also be an opportunity for us to change our mobility practices in the field of public passenger transport. A more numerous use of public passenger transport requires both a root and a stick. A step in this direction is the amendment to the Road Transport Act, which aims to change the form of transport subsidies for students and students, facilitate access to educational establishments and increase the use of public passenger transport, which will also have positive environmental effects. In the National Gazette, we support a new arrangement for the subsidisation of monthly tickets, allowing within the same distance class the uniform price of a monthly bus and rail ticket for all pupils and students in Slovenia. We expect the competent minister to continue with activities that will help to increase the consumption of public passenger transport and, in particular, to arrange for more equitable co-financing of the bus line, to pool all sources of financing and public passenger traffic management in one place, to remove bureaucratic barriers that prevent the merger of special services, in particular school services with ordinary line transport, to encourage the integration of municipalities and public passenger transport providers to unify timetables and to establish a portal where passengers will receive all information in one place. As we say, the Members of the National Gazette will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u80	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Madam Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us one of the few laws that we are considering this week, to which we express our support for both coalition and opposition Members, which we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party. We regret, however, that this type of cohesion is not also the case with the other legislative proposals before us, as this would be a positive message to our citizens and citizens that we Members are able to take responsibility unanimously for their future. But reality is different, that's how it is. The proposed law on amendments to the Road Transport Act provides two key solutions. The first solution is that all funds intended to subsidise the transport of students and students from the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport and from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are transferred to one administrator, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Another key solution is the establishment of a single monthly ticket price, which will depend on the distance from the place of education, which will amount to €20 for a distance of up to 60 kilometres, €30 for a distance of between 60 and 90 kilometres, and €50 for students or students who live more than 90 kilometres from the place of education. At the time of education, a student who resides in a place where he is educated will be able to buy a subsidised monthly ticket for a maximum of 10 trips at a price of 15 euros. On a specific occasion, this means that, for example, a student from Lendava who studies in Maribor and stays in a student’s dormitory on the Dostosvetski, he can buy 10 tickets for 15 euros, which he can use for Friday’s journey home to Prekmurje and Sunday’s trip from home to Maribor. A simple but resourceful solution that will save a lot of money in such a tight pocket. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are confident that the proposed solutions will even favor the most socially disadvantaged families and students. We believe that the number of cases of socially endangered students that we have heard about over the past months on radio and television and read through the daily newspaper will come to zero because of the solutions proposed. The positive thing about the proposed law is that the beneficiaries of ticket subsidies will be able to use them both in road and rail transport, with the introduction of a single ticket already showing that it is important to improve the popularisation of public transport. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we welcome the proposed solutions that improve the conditions for education of students and students. We fully support the proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act. We only hope that the promotion of public transport will continue in the direction of adapting to other categories of the population. We support the law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u82	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law by which the Government, together with the transporters of a student and students, wants to offer subsidised transport to school or college. According to the proposal of the novelty, the state would co-finance a monthly bus and train ticket and the price would depend on the distance. Subsidised monthly tickets will be available to all who have student or student status and live at least five kilometres from the school facility, with the ticket price tied to the number of kilometres. Those who are between 5 and 60 kilometers [5 and 60 km] away from school or college would count 15 euros for a monthly ticket. For those between 60 and 90 kilometers [60 and 90 km] away from school, a monthly ticket would cost 30 euros. For those over 90 kilometers away, 50 euros. The monthly ticket would apply to all days when the school has an institution where a student, a student, is taught or taught. It is expected that the carriers will offer students or students the opportunity to use the ticket in other days or during vacations when they have school or college obligations. There will also be certain benefits for all those who live in the very place of education during the week. There is also the possibility of a combination of both benefits when someone stays in another place during the week and returns home over the weekend. You could buy yourself a monthly ticket to a place where you're staying during the week and at the same time 10 tickets that you could go home with during the weekend. The benefits would apply to both the train and the bus. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that for students and students, and especially for their parents and guardians, any financial relief for the family budgets that are already overloaded is welcome, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! In New Slovenia, we are pleased to support the proposal to transfer money to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which will ensure transparency, rationality and effective control of money, to subsidise student and student transport for beneficiaries at least 5 kilometres from the place of education. This year, the country will spend poor €40 million on these ticket subsidies, which is not enough money. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is essential to ensure that money actually comes to those who are entitled to it and that abuses are prevented to the greatest extent possible. The new Road Transport Act is convincing as far as this is concerned. The price of the monthly ticket will be substantially reduced for beneficiaries, as we welcome. These changes may also increase the accessibility of education for those who are more distant from the place of education. Finally, this bill also fulfils one of the commitments in the coalition agreement. In fact, I would like to say that this is not only true for these students who are meant for it, but on this occasion, we can say that Slovenians drive too much with our own cars. This is once again a situation like when I was young when the Dutch made a fool of our roads to have beautiful cycling paths, only a shame to have cars driving on them. We don't use public passenger traffic much. During the previous period, I worked close to home, and I had no opportunity to notice this and went to work on foot or with a bicycle or behind a car, it was impertinent. But when I started going to the National Assembly, I'm amazed to see how many people are driving towards Ljubljana in cars. If I am self-critical, we are also Members and Members of Parliament with little worth of this criticism. During normal working days, I would like to take the train from Domžal to Ljubljana, but unfortunately the last train from Ljubljana to Domžale takes off at 20.15, so that if I wanted to, I would not be able to do so this week. It would be nice to read the newspaper from Domžal to Ljubljana or to watch the deer in the field towards Pšati. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the Mining Act in the framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, that is to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that again. Good-bye to all of you again! The Mining Act was amended in 2010, implemented by 1. 1. 2011, so it's a good year and a half. Its implementation has shown some inconsistencies, notably in the extension of those concessions and concession contracts for the exploitation of concessions on mineral raw materials which were ten years old and which expired after 1. 1. 2011. Due to the inadequate provisions of the law, these relations could not be extended or regulated in an appropriate manner, although the conditions for exploitation still exist. For this reason, a new law has been drawn up, which in some way regulates this situation during this transitional period, in such a way that for all the relations where concession rights have been established or have been in force at 1. 1. 2011 and are after 1. 1. In 2011, and for these formal reasons, they have not been extended, the amendment introduces an extension judgment of no more than three years or no later than 31. 12. 2013 However, there have been many other inconsistencies and inadequacies in the implementation of this Act, which in some ways prevent the implementation of the relevant economic initiatives, impede normal economic activity in this area and, with inadequate provisions, overly bureaucraticity prevent the normal realization of these concessions. For this reason, a new law will be prepared that will properly regulate these relations in the future. I suggest you support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Infrastructure and Space Committee as the parent labour body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Infrastructure and Space is at its 11th emergency session. 7. Consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Mining Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal to deal with it in accordance with an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 24th session. 7. decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In the introductory supplement, the explanation of the articles of the bill was given by the representative of the proposed Minister of Infrastructure and Space that the bill allows the extension of existing concessions for the use of mineral substances, irrespective of the conditions laid down in Article 50 of the Mining Act. These are existing relations requiring transitional arrangements under which existing concessionaires will be entitled to exercise the mining rights they had on day 1. 1. 2011 at the beginning of the application of the law. With regard to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, he said that the proposed amendments to the Committee addressed the concerns of that service and that the proposer supported them and invited the members of the Committee to accept them. Regarding the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, he said that they relate to broader matter than is regulated by this bill, so they will be examined by the Ministry in preparing more comprehensive and extensive amendments to the Mining Act, which proved necessary and planned this year. In its presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service noted in the introductory paragraphs that the proposed amendments to the Committee followed the opinion of their service, in which she pointed out that the proposed solutions should be more clearly formulated. Given that the proposed solutions relate to the transitional arrangements of the current mining law, a material basis should be laid down in the preliminary decisions of the current law and the transitional provisions of this amendment should be linked to it and the situations to which the proposed solutions relate should be adequately regulated. In the debate on the articles of the bill, representatives of the members of the positive Slovenia Group and of the Social Democrats expressed some concerns that arise when this issue is addressed. Among other things, they raised the question of the appropriateness of the solution, which allows for the continued exercise of mining rights to existing concessionaires who do not meet the conditions laid down in Article 50 of the Act. The applicant explained that at the Ministry they are aware of the necessity of more comprehensive legislative changes, but the existing relations cannot be regulated differently than by the legal determination of the transitional period until the new regime of these relations. The proposer therefore further suggested that the amendments should be supplemented by a set of deadlines, which is 31. 12. 2013 to which it will be possible to extend the existing mining right. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the amendments. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Happy Meh on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice President! For the reasons stated by the Minister in his own debate on the Committee and even today, this is a law that can certainly be adopted after this swift or urgent procedure, because it solves the problem of mining rights in the event that these rights are already problematic because they have not been regulated in time. This is a law that has two articles and in a very simple way regulates what should actually be settled earlier. There were also few comments, all taken into account in the Committee's proposal. Those who proposed this law also spoke of the need for this law to be fully regulated. What the Minister has also announced that we will do seems to me to be the right time, in some way also the beginning of everything that should be changed in the mining law. Extremely many problems may be in the area of mining rights, concessions and everything that is going on here, because it is likely that the matter is sufficiently messy, dispersed and because it falls under the so-called mining rights of much of what else is going on in this area. The Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Ms Katarina Hočevar on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. The Honourable Minister and the others present! Members of the National Gazette will support this short amendment of the Mining Act, allowing more than 10 companies to continue their activities or thereby allow them to extend the concessional relationship, but of course we hope that this area will be integrated and system-wide in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we highlighted the issue of awarding, rather than awarding concessions for the use of mineral raw materials, with a question sent to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space months ago. In 2011, the former Ministry of Economy rejected some 40 applications for the extension of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the year when the previous amendment of the Mining Act entered into force, resulting in a number of large economic damage to companies, while the municipalities and the state were deprived of concession fees. Therefore, we are pleased that the Minister has listened to our initiatives and has begun to prepare a novel of the Mining Act, which is short but in our opinion very strong. The novelty allows for the extension of existing concession contracts for the use of mineral raw materials irrespective of the conditions laid down in Article 50 of the current Mining Act. The extension of mining rights will be granted to both operators who have submitted an application for the extension of the mining right to the Ministry on the basis of an existing law, as well as to operators who will submit an application after the entry into force of today's amendment to the Mining Act. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that the competent minister has responded to specific cases of desperate economic operators who have been waiting for a long time to grant a concession. We also believe that the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be taken into account in the broader amendment to the Mining Act, which is expected to be prepared and adopted by the end of this year. For these reasons and for the necessity of applying the amendments as soon as possible, we will also support the proposed law supplementing the Mining Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will also support the proposal for a law supplementing the Mining Act in our parliamentary group. This is mainly the extension of mining rights for those who have not benefited from mineral raw materials on the concession already obtained, which expired from 1. 1. 2011. Like I said at the beginning, I won't talk for too long. We will support this proposal in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Vasle on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u98	Hello again! Amendments to the Mining Act are urgently needed as the legal regime in this area prevents the extension of concessions for the use of mineral substances on which the basic activity of mining companies is based. The Minister explained on his home working body that they were aware that a set of other legal changes in this area should be drawn up as quickly as possible, but the existing relations could not be regulated otherwise than by the legal determination of the transitional period until the new regime. On some other initiatives for further amendments to the existing law, the minister explained that the Ministry is planning to make more extensive changes and additions to the mining legislation this year. In New Slovenia, we support the amendment of the mining law, because we believe that in times of severe economic crisis we cannot afford to see companies whose primary activity is the mining of mineral substances fail due to bureaucratic barriers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u100	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party absolutely supports the addition of the Mining Act. It is a short but very important addition to this law, since this law or this supplement allows for the extension of existing concessions for the use of mineral raw materials. Of course, the extension is justified by those who already have the right to benefit from concession rights. This is a transitional period and we also support the start of a process of comprehensive regulation of the mining law. We will support this addition in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on road traffic laws after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u102	All in attendance, all in attendance! The Law on Road Traffic Rules governs three substantive areas that in some ways address problems in the implementation of the law, complement the powers of municipal editors and adapt or reduce fines for minor infringements of traffic rules. However, with the proposed amendments and additions, we do not change the content that is important in terms of transport safety, nor do we change the content that in some way ensures a safe and smooth traffic flow. In all serious infringements of traffic rules, to mention, in particular infringements relating to driving under the influence of alcohol or other prohibited substances, driving in the opposite direction, speed exceeding, escaping from the site of the accident and other serious infringements of the rules, fines remain unchanged in all these cases. However, changes have been necessary in some areas where the implementation of the law has shown that the provisions pose major problems and also material and social consequences to individuals, because when the law was enforced, it was somehow not envisaged what these consequences would be in practice. Let me give you one of these examples. This is the case for bus drivers who are affected by the provision of Article 89 in such a way that they are unable to carry out their professional work and are therefore socially threatened if they have suffered minor infringements of the rules with other motor vehicles. We're overcoming these mistakes. There is also a similar case in the driver of ambulances, fire trucks, police vehicles. We believe that in this way we are properly regulating the normative area in this area. We introduce a new concept: a car accident with a minor injury. It is a small, minor accident, where there is also minor material damage, in which a policeman may deviate from the fact-finding and evidence-gathering under certain conditions. This makes it possible for participants to agree on their own ways and ways in which the damage will be remedied and, in some ways, to relieve the work of the police in a number of smaller cases in small cases in the event of minor damage to vehicles or objects and where there is no dispute. Procedural problems encountered by the police in the determination of alcoholisation are also addressed. However, the conditions for detention also change in individual cases, in a way that we have already known in the past and is also effective. The law, on a proposal from local communities, clearly regulates the powers of municipal directors in such a way that they can also act on uncategorised roads outside settlements used for public road transport or where this public road traffic takes place. It is mainly shopping centres, the supervision of bikers, bike drivers with engines and, of course, on roads in the village and on municipal roads outside the settlements regulated traffic, where so far the problem of regulating this traffic has mainly been the case in some major events. The fines and collateral sanctions for minor violations of traffic rules are being adapted to legislation in our neighbouring countries. We make them comparable, and we also build on the principle of proportionality. Thus, fines for minor infringements will be reduced to €40 and in the type of infringements, where there was no reason for any harsh treatment, the penalty points will also be abolished, for example in the absence of directional thrusters. The proposal for amendments to the law seeks to set a milestone in the traffic of behaviours that arise due to the current irresistance and inattention of which the participants need to be given particular attention, since they can influence the safe decoupling of traffic rather than deepen in such a drastic way. The step we wanted to take on this novel will probably follow in further consideration of amendments to this law and broader legislation. It is a matter of having a series of minor violations committed by those who have not committed any offence for five, ten or 20 years. In such a case, we believe that sufficient warning is needed, but it is therefore necessary to amend broader legislation, and this amendment of the law will also need to be continued in the future. Otherwise, I invite you to support the novel that is on the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u104	Thanks again. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Infrastructure and Space is at its 11th emergency session. 7. as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, said that the draft law was aimed at enhancing the safety of all road users in a manner comparable to those of some comparable European countries. He pointed out that the review of the regulatory regime in comparable countries had found that certain provisions in the current law were disproportionate to the gravity of individual offences and that the amendment proposed a reduction of fines for minor traffic offences which, according to the applicant, would have no significant impact on traffic safety. In addition, the amendment of the law imposes a more unambiguous record of the individual provisions of the law, thus eliminating some inconsistencies which have proved inappropriate in the implementation of the applicable law. In its presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, although the amendment to Article 65 should be supplemented by an extension of the application of the law so far in the interim period from the entry into force until the entry into force of this amendment, would, in the interim period, not have any legal rules governing this area of road safety. The Vice-President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the proposed solutions on the draft law, in particular certain provisions which have proved to be inadequate and non-lifelike in practice. In the debate, members of opposition parliamentary groups rejected the proposed amendment of the law. They pointed out that the bill amends only a good year of law, without having previously carried out relevant analyses and assessments of its effects. They also consider that there are no valid reasons for its adoption under a reduced procedure. The Minister and Director of the Transport Directorate, Bojan Žlender, pointed out with regard to the comments made by the opposition member that, in the opinion of the proposaler, the legislation in force violated the principle of proportionality, which was the main reason for proposing a change to the existing regime. They pointed out that fines were reduced only for minor offences, while for heavier offences penalties remained unchanged, and therefore no deterioration in road safety was expected. However, they also pointed out some inappropriate and non-life-related solutions, such as the applicable regulation in Article 89 of the current law, which prohibits the carriage of persons to professional drivers if they are punished with more than seven criminal points, even though they were obtained when driving vehicles of the second category, which eliminates this novelty. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition groups. The Committee also adopted its amendment, which was prepared in accordance with a notice from the Legislative and Legal Service that the application of the regulation should be extended from enforcement until the beginning of the application of the amendment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Polonci Komar, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List, in the presentation of the views of the groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u106	Thank you for saying that again. All in attendance, all in attendance! About 1.4 million motor vehicles are registered on Slovenian roads, of which more than one million are passenger cars. For a long year, the number of road accidents from year to year has increased. Although the number of accidents has decreased in the past period, the number of deaths has also decreased. High penalties have also contributed to improving traffic safety and, at the same time, the behaviour of drivers has changed by means of prevention and awareness of drivers. After a few years of tightening the road traffic rules legislation, when we have a year-to-year fine and added non-monetary in the form of criminal points, this time we are dealing slightly differently with safety issues in transport. A few months after the implementation of the Road Traffic Rules Act, we have decided to reduce the penalties. Why? This eliminates the shortcomings of the existing law that have emerged in practice in the implementation of the law itself. The main reason for the drafting of the new law is the reduction of fines for minor traffic offences, which are not intended to have a major impact on traffic safety and the reduction of fines for legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and individuals acting independently, their responsible persons and the responsible persons of the public authority or the self-government local community. Thus, we follow the principles of milder sanctioning, more precise decisions of the jurisdiction of the municipal authorities and the elimination of the shortcomings of the law that have proved to be in practice. The fact is that currently fines for certain traffic offences in Slovenia are higher than fines in neighbouring countries. Given the standard of living of road users in these countries, the difference is even greater. We estimate that the penalties for minor traffic offences during a serious financial crisis are too much for family budgets to be paid in such a way. At the same time, we are confident that this will not negatively affect traffic safety on Slovenian roads. We believe that the level of traffic awareness in Slovenia is increasing and that the culture of behaviour in case it gains on its importance. Every life is priceless. When we're on the road, we need to be particularly aware of that. No fine can repay the loss of a loved one. With the aim of increasing road safety and reducing traffic accidents, we will support the amendment in the Civil Gazette. But we invite all the participants in the traffic, be careful, protect yourself and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u108	Your Honor! With the adoption of new legislation on road regulations in the previous term, Members of the Slovenian People's Party drew attention to some inconsistencies and non-life solutions in imposing sanctions on infringementrs of road regulations. With regard to the amount of the penalty, we have even pointed out the comparability with the penalties in some European Union countries, where incomes are incomparably higher than Slovenians. We also reiterate the fact that there is still a need to pay more attention to prevention and training for safety in transport. In spite of the crisis, however, it is also necessary to mention the urgent investment in safer roads and better quality infrastructure for greater safety on our roads, which in the end would also mean a relaunch of construction. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore support the proposed solutions to the amendment of the law, which do not interfere with major offences, but more proportionately and livelylyly lay down penalties for minor offences. We support the proposed reduction of the risk fines for offences at lower speeds or, for example, the conversion of vehicles, since they do not have a greater impact on greater road safety. In view of the experience so far since the adoption of the law, such high penalties have only meant charging the state treasury. It is also appropriate to increase the maximum permitted speed to 100 kilometres per hour for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of 3,5 tonnes by a trailer in accordance with the legislation of certain other countries. We also support provisions that complement the powers of the editors to be effective at all times and that they can take action from now on on also on non-tegrated roads outside the settlements, especially shopping centres, and to monitor bikers and bike drivers with a motor. Among other things, we support the law in order to remedy the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law so far. We supported the urgent procedure of the law because the law is certainly positive for citizens and entrepreneurs, so that for minor offences that do not have a decisive impact on safety in transport they can pay correspondingly smaller fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone. On 1 July, one year has passed since the entry into force of the new road transport legislation. Its effects, according to the Director of the Transport Safety Agency, are definitely positive, but the Government has decided to amend the Road Traffic Rules Act, which, among other things, reduces fines for certain minor offences, particularly speed violations. This is also comparable to some other countries with which we like to compare ourselves many times. In particular, our penalties for these offences were significantly higher than those of neighbouring Austria. I have also advocated these heights in the previous term, I am also defending them now, and they are also advocated by our Group of Members. As the applicant points out, the main reason for preparing a novel in reducing the fines at stake for minor traffic offences is that some shortcomings have been identified in the implementation of the existing law. The highest emphasis on legislative changes is on reducing certain fines for minor offences that, according to the Ministry, do not have a major impact on transport safety. The reduction is also promising for legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and individuals who carry out their own activities. The novelty ahead of us foresees a reduction in certain speeding penalties, while the penalties for driving under the influence of alcohol are unchanged, since a person driving under the influence of alcohol is fatally dangerous to other road users, so such carelessness and such behaviour must not be tolerated. One of the maximum penalties is a novelty for offences committed by a legal person who manages a device to disable the operation of measuring devices where the level of the penalty is drastically reduced. The fine for inadequate winter equipment would also fall from €120 to €40. As I have already said, in our parliamentary group we welcome the proposed solutions that regulate more clearly the competences of municipal editors, which are based on the proposed changes by local communities, so that editors can also act in accordance with their competences on uncategorised roads outside settlements. Above all, these are shopping centres, where traffic chaos often reigns, especially in the light of traffic, as well as the supervision of bikers and bike drivers with a motor. As the bill changes only fines for minor road traffic offences, Members and Members of our Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Vasle on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u112	Hello again! Although no more than a year has passed since the last amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, we must conclude that certain provisions in the law in force are disproportionately disproportionate to the weight of individual road traffic offences. The amendment of the law also reduces penalties for minor traffic offences that have no major impact on traffic safety. This does not compromise the sustainability of the transport safety system in Slovenia, but we are becoming particularly comparable to the transport arrangements of some other developed European countries. The new law we are proposing will prevent such illogical situations, and amendments and the abolition of other provisions will also be supported by the transport sector. The Road Traffic Rules Act will also change in those provisions that have proved to be inadequate and non-lifelike in practice. Thus, for example, the existing 89th Article of the Act prohibits the carriage of persons by a professional bus driver and a rescue vehicle which receives more than 7 penalty points, even though the driver of this penalty point was given another category for driving the vehicle. The New Slovenia programme also states, inter alia, that we will reduce the penalties for traffic offences, which are only in the budget charging function. The law before us, however, will end these high penalties for minor offences, and the proposal of the law is largely a reality of the view of the transport security policy in Slovenia. For all these reasons, Members and Members of the New Slovenia will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be welcomed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that the proposal for a new law is needed for several reasons. First time. The amendment of the law eliminates the shortcomings of the law that have in practice arisen in the implementation of the law so far. Another time. Threatened fines shall be reduced for legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and individuals acting independently, their responsible persons and the responsible persons of the public authority or the self-governing local community. Third time. The main reason for drafting the amendment is to reduce the fines at stake for minor traffic offences that have no major impact on traffic safety. The penalties for traffic offences, especially the smaller ones, are significantly higher in Slovenia than in other countries of the European Union in relation to the purchasing power of our population. That is why we want to make legislation on criminal policy and road traffic offences more life-saving and closer to reality. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have announced this change before the national elections, and this commitment and promise to the voters and voters are now being fulfilled. The planned penal policy, either because of budgeting or simply because of the unwise belief that an individual can be forced into a faultless driving, has been born into its absurdity. It is lifelike for every driver to have a minor traffic offence, which police officers are forced to warn him about, but not to the point where he is so incapacitated that his monthly budget is at risk. The new law on road traffic rules of fines and penalty points for minor traffic offences conforms to the laws of some neighbouring and Central European countries. The fines for minor infringements, in which we cannot really talk about endangering road users, such as speeding up by 10 kilometres on the highway, are falling to 40 euros. In the case of a type of infringement, such as the non-use of directional thrusters, the penalty points shall be abolished. To all those who are trying to convince the public that with the amendment of the law we will increase the risk of the worst traffic accidents, let me answer that the amendment does not affect in any way the worst infringements of traffic rules, such as severe speed limits, alcohol driving, driving in the opposite direction. For these cases, fines and penalty points remain the same. If we really want to achieve greater safety in transport, in addition to the introduction of a smart system of fines it is essential to invest enough energy in appropriate education of children, from kindergarten to primary and secondary schools, including colleges, on the one hand, and to improve road infrastructure on the other. In order to achieve significant shifts in terms of greater safety for all actors in transport, it is essential to approach this issue in a comprehensive, long-term and responsible manner. Non-lifely high fines are not the right approach, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we welcome this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u116	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, Mr Minister! Despite the kind of solutions that this reduces the penalty, the Law will not be supported in the Group of Social Democrats, as there is no preliminary analysis of what such changes bring for safety on our roads. We are concerned about the safety of people. For, as we have seen, a law from one year ago brought many good things despite being unconscioned. This is also recalled by the Public Transport Safety Agency. Although there are no accurate data yet, the first results show that the number of deaths decreased by 40 to 45% in one year, the number of serious injuries by about 30 to 40% and the number of injuries by 15 to 20%. The lower number of dead and injured also amounts to at least EUR 20 million savings due to the lower need for health services or a lower number of sick days. The police data also show an improvement in the situation in the field of transport safety. From 1 January to 28 June, police reported 45 fatalities of Slovenian roads, and during last year's comparable period the number of victims was 70. We all know that punishment hurts, but that is also the purpose of punishment. The competent minister and the government have estimated that the punishment hurts too much and is disproportionate to the offence. The responsibility for such an assessment lies with the Government and, in particular, the Minister, who must be aware that if the situation on Slovenian roads deteriorates, we will call him to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under a long-term loan of EUR 440 million, which is leased by a thermal electricity bill, D. O. O., for a European Investment Bank for the financing of a project for the establishment of a complementary block 6, with a power of 600 megawatts in a thermal power plant following a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members, with the first-signed Srečko Meho. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Srečk Meh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u118	Mr. Secretary, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are looking at the guarantee for Block 6, which is a project that provides reliable electricity supply for further years in Slovenia. Many debates and debates have been made and many arguments have been made for and against us have been heard and said in this debate. In all of this, I would like to reiterate some important points. Block 6 is the replacement block with which we replace the current blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and also 5. So old blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 have 750 megawatts of installed power. Block 6 has 600 megawatts of installed power and therefore the replacement block is mainly blocks 4 and 5 that work the most and also blocks 3. Blocks 1 and 2 are both necessary demolitions and no longer producing, completely inappropriate for production. Block 6 will consume a million tonnes of coal less and will significantly lower the pollution of the environment and will therefore be more environmentally acceptable. All emission values are within the licences that Block 6 has and CO2 quotas and CO2 will be less than a million tonnes because it will consume less electricity. The guarantee means cutting off the agony in which the engineers are, the organisations that run the production in Block 6 that run the investment in Block 6 and thus give support to everything that's been going on for the next few years. It is well known that three governments have already concluded on this bloc and that the guarantee for the construction of this bloc is too long. Block 6 is primarily an economic project run by Block 6 in the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and is paid in full or will be paid in full from electricity. Our guarantee, this is the guarantee we are proposing to the National Assembly, means that investment can therefore be cheaper. The Slovenian Government has been responsible for all the issue that has taken place around Block 6 and has taken appropriate measures and has also proposed appropriate conclusions, amendments that we have endorsed or also accepted as an integral part of the guarantee that we are making today. By what we accept as a guarantee today, we give the Slovenian Government all the powers that I believe it has had today to verify, within its powers and also its responsibilities, that all procedures are taken in the direction we agreed on and that the price of Block 6 is appropriate. It seems particularly important to me to say that we have talked a lot about individual costs and that these costs are now somehow limited to €300 million and are environmentally acceptable and that Block 6 is also environmentally acceptable for the valley itself or for the Valley of Shale. The fact that the inhabitants of the Shaleska Valley support the production or construction of block 6 as well as the further production of electricity means that the people responsible are in the coal mine, in the thermal power plant Šostjanj, and elsewhere also know how to talk to and show people what the real situation is. There was a lot of talk about whether there was enough coal in the Shale Valley. We all have assurances that for the production of Block 6 there is sufficient coal, that this is our only source and that also from this point of view the guarantee is appropriate and that electricity production also continues to provide us with smooth electricity supply in the coming years. Thank you very much and I suggest you accept this guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is 21. 6th also below 28. 6th and 13th conclusion 7. Consider the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the long-term loan for TES. The point was suspended twice on the committee for the purpose of obtaining additional information on the eligibility of the guarantee of this project. Within the framework of the work materials, the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, two opinions from the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. Holding of Slovenian power plants, TES submitted extensive material to the committee, provided a number of explanations with comprehensive answers. In addition, the members and members of the Committee have received a view of the confidential material TES and HSE by signing. The Committee also received a number of letters from the interested public's point of view. Mr Srečko Meh, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, representatives of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and TES, representatives of the Alstom administration, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, representative of the State Council, representatives of the Civil Initiative, participated in or were invited to the meetings of the Committee. At its meeting on 21 June 2012, the Committee began its second reading of the draft law. As the text was found in the extensive discussion at the beginning of the second reading that the Government and the Committee had not received sufficient assurance that the price of the project for the TES 6 in-house block was definitive or that the conditions adopted by the Government on 23 February 2012 had been met, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the acquisition of the relevant data, the Committee had been suspended. For the same reason, the first continuation of this point was also suspended at a meeting of the Committee on 28 June 2012. The Committee continued its second reading of the draft law and concluded its consideration. According to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, the Government has defined the guarantee law as a full responsibility for the TES 6 project, taking into account the high level of risk by requiring a consistent fulfilment of the conditions previously laid down. At the time of the findings, the Government examined the Special Commission's report with a view to the entire document and the state of the project and on the basis of the calculation of all the costs associated with the investment. According to the assessment given, government requirements will be consistently respected by the installation of the necessary security guards in the Committee's proposal for an amendment to Article 1, which also opens the possibility for the Government not to accept guarantees under unfulfilled conditions. At the hearing, the Committee also voted on three proposals for amendments to the Committee, namely new paragraphs 4a, 4b and 4c, on the initiative of the member of the Committee of Matthew Frangež. The Committee did not accept these amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the legislative proposal together. In the light of the amendment adopted by the Committee to Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which forms an integral part of this report, is prepared. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Committee adopted three conclusions, at the initiative of the Government, proposing that the TES prepare a peer review of the investment programme of NIP 5 endorsed by an independent and professionally qualified reviewer and supervisory board of TES and HSE. On that basis, the Government shall, before signing the guarantee contract, verify compliance with the conditions laid down in the guarantee law for TES 6. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government, first to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, and then to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Dejan Krušc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u122	Once again, hello to everyone. Your Honor! We are talking about TES 6, the largest investment in the Republic of Slovenia, which has increased from the initial EUR 600 million to a billion and EUR 300 million, so more than doubled and responsibly we can argue that if the Government did not take a responsible approach to this investment and the proposal for a guarantee law and adopted certain conclusions at the 3rd meeting on 23 February, today or a few years later, we would certainly be talking about at least EUR 200 million of additional costs in this investment. As I mentioned, at the 3rd regular meeting on 23 February, the Government adopted the relevant conclusions, which took note of the comprehensive information on the project substitutable block TEŠ 6 and adopted at this same meeting five conditions or starting points, if you wish, under which the Government is willing to take an additional risk by issuing a State guarantee for the TES 6 replacement block project of 440 million euros. It is therefore a law that we are considering today and which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by Mr Sreč Meh's Member of Parliament. The government has defined 23 to this guarantee. 2. positively, provided that the investor fulfils the previously defined conditions that will optimise the cost of the project, ensure its long-term financial stability and provide that a comprehensive review of the investment will be carried out, which will also give reasons for the increase in this value, as well as measures to enforce liability. I am alone as a minister in charge of the field of energy, 15. This year, he appointed a committee to prepare a report on TES 6. This was based on the previous reports of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the reports of the Commission on the prevention of corruption and the extensive documentation of the project. On 30 April, on the basis of all the indications, the Commission submitted a written report containing the findings and proposals in 18 points necessary for the correct and optimal continuation of the project. Let me point out a few essentials. The Commission concluded that the project in the past has not been properly managed at several stages in the past and that it has been neglected by the respective duties of the administrations and the supervisory boards. It concluded that not all the costs of the project were covered in a number of investment programmes. We have also found this in the following. As you know, the cost of editing has now increased from €89.100 million to around € 156 million. It was also found that the cost of financing was not properly evaluated. However, on the basis of all these documents which make available to the Government and the Ministry, as well as to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, a decision or conclusion was finally adopted in five points, which also stem from the Government's report on compliance with the conditions of 23 February. We estimate that, on the basis of all this, Members and Members of Parliament can decide on this law in a responsible and conscientious manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance to Dr Dejan Krusac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u124	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As we have already pointed out in the general debate on the law before you, the Government has had doubts about the implementation of the project process and has therefore adopted several conclusions on the conditions for the completion of the project. On Thursday, 17 May, the Government tabled an amendment to the legislative procedure containing those requirements. TES will have to commit itself in a contract with the Republic of Slovenia on the framework for the implementation of the project. This amendment of the Government was adopted at a meeting of the parent working body. The government is in session 12. 7. Take note of the information on the fulfilment of the conditions imposed on the investor. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, found that the investor followed the Government's conclusions and carried out a number of activities in terms of optimising the cost of the project. At the same time, it proposed to adopt an appropriate amendment in the law allowing the Government not to sign an appropriate contract if the value of the project is increased at the time of the contract. Such an amendment was also adopted at a meeting of the competent working body. In addition, the parent working body has adopted conclusions that require the TEC to adopt a new investment programme in the fifth version prior to the signing of the guarantee contract, which must be approved by the TES and HSE Supervisory Boards and confirmed by an independent reviewer. On this basis, the Government will be able to verify that its requirements laid down in the law are met. In summary, the law in the text, as amended by the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the Committee, will impose automatic legal obligations on the Government to issue the guarantee, but will oblige it to conclude a special contract before issue, for the first time, with TES and, secondly, to verify that all the conditions required are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u125	Mr. Secretary of State, time has run out for the government. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u126	It is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. Since the assembly in the second session has already held a general debate on the proposal for a law, we do not have any amendments to the amended bill, so we are concluding a second reading. I interrupt this agenda item and inform you of the continuation of the meeting. We will adjourn the session after the debate on agenda item 15, which is the proposed amendment to the Social Protection Act for one hour. Then we will vote on all the agenda items that we discussed yesterday and today, and also on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Work in Black, where we have only a vote, the debate was held on a regular basis. Tomorrow, the Commission will meet in the morning to prepare everything necessary for another item on the agenda and then we will proceed with the extraordinary meeting and conclude on Friday. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW FOR PENALTIES The proposal was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u127	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government is proposing a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, primarily for the purpose of complying with the amendment of the Penal Code, the KZ-1B, and the Criminal Procedure Act, the CAP-K, which began to apply in mid-May this year. At the time of the drafting of the amendment, certain shortcomings related mainly to the amendment of two foreign penalties were identified, namely points 15a and 15b of the Side Penalties Act, the first on the prohibition of participation in procurement tenders and the second on the prohibition of trade in legal persons' financial instruments in an organised market. With regard to the first harmonisations, it has been found that the foreign penalty is inconsistent with the Public Procurement Act and we will therefore correct this anomaly under this Act. However, in the framework of the ban on trade in financial instruments, it was found that the possibility of imposing such foreign sanctions was linked to the holder of the securities and not to that person or to that legal person who committed the offence. As has already been said, the amendment proposes a change in this direction. The law is of a material and legal nature and constitutes the basis for the imposition of criminal offences and sanctions on the courts, so we propose that you take it into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u128	Thank you. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. The Committee's report will be presented by Mrs Eva Irgle, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. At its 11th urgent meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the liability of legal persons for offences submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal to deal with it in a simplified manner. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 21st meeting that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, explained in a supplementary explanation of the articles of the bill that the proposed law was necessary to comply with the amendments of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act which began in May 2012. The proposed solutions offered within this novel also refer to two side sanctions. For reasons of non-compliance with public procurement legislation, a foreign penalty, a ban on participation in public procurement tenders, and a foreign penalty on trade in financial instruments in an organised market shall be changed to a ban on the possession of securities of which the legal person is the holder, as a result of inadequate formulation causing difficulties in implementation. Ms Mira Palhartinger, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that in her written opinion, the Legal and Legal Service had pointed out that the party was a party to a prohibition on the possession of securities whose holder was a legal person, but the method of enforcement was not specified. Therefore, in the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which is a legal place for regulating this issue, it is necessary to regulate its means of enforcement as soon as possible, as the Government has also announced in the introduction of the bill. He then spoke on the committee also to the President of the Commission of the Council of State for State, Mr Bogomir Vnučec, who said in his presentation of the Commission's opinion that the Commission supports the bill, since it is only to harmonise laws in the field of criminal law. The discussion of the members of the Committee focused on the deletion of the aside penalty of the prohibition of participation in public procurement tenders. The members of the Committee expressed their concerns about the envisaged deletion of this foreign penalty and, in this regard, asked the applicant to clarify whether this would mean that legal persons acting unlawfully could not be excluded from the procurement procedures. They considered it inconsistent with the Public Procurement Act to be more appropriate to abolish the amendment of the latter rather than to amend this bill. In response to the concerns expressed by the members of the Committee, the representative stressed that the appropriate place to regulate the procurement procedures and, in this regard, the sanctions that would prevent legal persons responsible for certain offences from participating, the Public Procurement Act. The Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Offences provides for offences for which a legal person and the type of penalties or penalties may be liable. The definition of a sanction prohibiting participation in public procurement tenders in the applicable law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences is therefore inadequate, since the place of regulation of this substance is public procurement legislation. Let me add that no amendments have been tabled to the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Crimes be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u130	Thank you. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes is to harmonise the law with KZ-1B and KKP-K, which entered into force or apply on 15 May 2012. The law mainly introduces changes in the area of two foreign penalties: the prohibition of participation in public procurement tenders and the prohibition of trading in legal entity financial instruments in an organised market. For reasons of non-compliance with the rules governing the exclusion from the procurement procedure under the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services, the proposed law is deleted. However, in the case of the prohibition of trading in financial instruments of a legal person in an organised market, the lack and ambiguity of the misnomer is eliminated, since so far legal persons and natural persons who are holders of financial instruments, i.e. securities, and not legal persons who have committed an offence and have been convicted. Furthermore, the proposal for a law addresses some further editorial errors, uncertainties and shortcomings in the regulation so far. At this point, we would like to point out that such good legislation in the field of criminal law is not a guarantee for the detection and sanctioning of offences committed by legal persons. In view of the increasing trend of criminal offences committed by legal persons, due to the increasing property damage caused by these crimes and the harshness of the situation in which legal persons commit crimes in the field of infringement of workers' fundamental rights, this is an area that needs to be given even more attention. We are aware of the need for urgent action if we want to change the poor statistics on exposed and later convicted legal persons. The 606 legal persons indicted in 2010, 55 indictments and only 6 legal persons found responsible, testify that changes are needed here and immediately if we want our citizens and citizens to still believe in the rule of law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the bill with the hope that we will soon have legislation and other measures on the matter of detection and prosecution of crimes and measures that will make our justice more effective and fairer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u132	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u133	Nice greeting, Mr. President, and thank you for saying so. Hello, all present! The DeSUS Group will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, with a view to harmonising this law with the rest of the criminal law, public procurement legislation and eliminating editorial errors, ambiguities and shortcomings in the current regulation. The proposal for the amendment of the Law for the DeSUS Group is not disputed either in the part of the deletion or regulation of permanent penalties, but in this place as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we also point out that it is necessary to accede as soon as possible to the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and to regulate the enforcement of the foreign penalty of the prohibition of the possession of securities of which the holder is a legal person. We point out that this lateral penalty is merely prescribed, and without the regulation of its enforcement, only a dead letter remains on paper. That is why we once again appeal to the competent services, it is said, to the Ministry or Government to approach the creation of a new law that will fill this legal void. However, the proposed law under consideration will be supported by the DeSUS Group, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u134	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and fellow Members! The Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for the Crimes of New Content Solutions does not give rise to a new law on the liability of legal persons. It only means to comply with the latest amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which were adopted in 2011. Nevertheless, the amendment is necessary and important in order to ensure internal compliance with this Regulation and to comply with other rules governing the area of liability of legal persons for offences. The principle of legality followed by the amendment of this law is one of the most important fundamental principles of law. In the field of criminal law, this principle means that a criminal offence must be defined in the law as a criminal offence and a criminal sanction imposed on it. The real area of criminal sanctions for legal persons has been incoherently regulated in the law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences and such inconsistencies need to be eliminated. For the effective work of the judiciary, the first prerequisite is good and internal harmonised legislation. This is the responsibility of the National Assembly and all of us Members. Of course, then we can ask and expect the State authorities, in particular the judiciary, to implement the laws adopted in practice. In the area of the conduct of criminal proceedings against legal persons, justice has so far not been successful. The proportion of pending criminal charges against the prosecutions is still too high. In particular, for the courts, it can be said that, in the area of determining the liability of legal persons for crimes of a number of years, they have also failed. Even in recent years, the situation has not improved despite all projects aimed at remedying backlogs in the courts. Procedures are too long, so that due to the general economic situation, criminal proceedings against a legal person are brought to an end either for the termination of the legal person or for the reason of the statute of limitations. No one takes responsibility for such a situation. While presenting the annual reports of the prosecutions and the courts, we are constantly hearing that the reasons for the backlogs are systemic. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of this Act, as this will provide the appropriate legislative basis for the conduct of criminal proceedings against legal persons. However, we will closely monitor the annual reports on the work of the prosecutions and the courts in the future, and will also, if necessary, require adequate responsibility for the proper and timely work of the individual prosecutions as well as the courts and judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u136	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that again. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, as it is said, introduced into the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes. In order to examine the law, the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted a reduced procedure under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since we consider it to be less difficult to amend and supplement the law and to comply with the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is why we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the reduced procedure is certainly justified. The bill amends nine articles of the current law on liability of legal persons for offences. The main objective of the bill is to comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force or applied on 15 May 2012 and with the Sectoral Law: Public Procurement Act, the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. Let me explain that we will also support these changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u138	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u139	All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a novel has already been prepared by the previous government. The procedure was halted due to the end of the term of office and it is correct that this matter is now again here in the National Assembly. The bill is almost identical to the previous government's proposal. And if a proposal were to be put into the legislative procedure early in the spring, it would be possible to follow the normal procedure in accordance with the rules of procedure. The significant difference, as already mentioned today, between the 2011 proposal and the 2012 proposal is in the so-called aside penalty. I quote: "Prohibition of participation in public procurement tenders or exclusion from public procurement procedures." I am surprised that the legal profession, not ours, but outside this House, opposes the deletion of this proposal. While the Ministry excuses the deletion by stating that this foreign penalty is not in line with the Public Procurement Act. However, Article 42 of the Public Procurement Act and Article 15a of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes are not equivalent. Pursuant to Article 42 of the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority must exclude the candidate who has been convicted by law from the procurement procedure. And here are the 12 cases listed, the line. These crimes, however, are deleted from the record after a certain period of time, which is good. In the case of Article 15a of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, however, there is a speech that the exclusion from the procurement procedure may be pronounced as a by-law sentence for a period of three to ten years. This novelty has been introduced by the first Janša government, which now says that we do not need this punishment. I ask who we want to protect by means of this change. Members of the Social Democrats will support the changes despite this issue I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u140	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u141	Nice greetings, distinguished president, minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes eliminates internal inconsistencies with the amendment of the Penal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure, all adopted in the previous year. The law that we are considering today is functionally linked to these two laws, with minor shortcomings that need to be addressed as a result of the uniform regulation in criminal law with this amendment. We will support the law in the Civil Code, and we hope that detection and prosecution authorities will be more determined and bolder in demanding criminal liability for crimes and will be significantly more successful in doing so. Regardless of the specifics of the effectiveness of detection and prosecution in legal persons, it deviates greatly from the performance of natural persons. Only 10% of all criminal charges filed in the Republic of Slovenia are brought by the State Prosecutor's Office into indictments and only 10% of all of them are tried in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u142	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, so that amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill in accordance with the timetable today in the context of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law on public finances. The draft law was tabled by a group of 22 Members and Members, with Mr Jank Webro, first signed. With regard to this bill, 27 Members and Members of Parliament requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u143	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. Today we are deciding on the implementation of the law, which is supposed to repeal Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. There are a number of reasons why I'm going to try to squander them in these five minutes. In Slovenia, since 1996, the state budget directly covers more than a fifth for normal pensioners. In other words, there is no pension in Slovenia that would not receive at least one fifth of its pension from the state budget. In addition to the general conditions, the rules also allow for the right to a pension under more favourable conditions. This is regulated by specific laws, agreement on matters of succession and in a legally binding manner also by the Basic Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law for its implementation. It is therefore pensions, not on the basis of specific laws imposed under more favourable conditions, and not on allowances or any kind of benefits. Article 232 of the ZPIZ provides that these items must be paid off. It is therefore so much less justified that the ZUJF only intervened in certain pensions co-financed by the State budget. The article is double selective. It distinguishes between all pensioners and those who are partly co-financed by the State budget and within this group further selects those who, on the basis of a certain incomprehensible principle of justice, which was nowhere to be explained, have excluded groups that reduce their pensions to up to 25%. If I quote Dr. Udet, "games for selective action, for discrimination and such an intervention is obviously unconstitutional". As stated, the main objective of the law is to restore all the rights referred to in Article 143, with the exception of the first paragraph. The main reasons why, we can scroll into a few points. The first would have been enough to change the law. Infringement of the constitutional linkage of the National Assembly is not a referendum. We decided before one year after the announcement of the decision at the referendum on STIZ 2. This constitutes a violation of Article 90(1) of the Constitution and Article 25 of the Referendum Act. Isn't it weird? Today we will be deciding on the Black Work Act, the decision we postponed for one week to respect this condition, and we did not have to respect it with the ZUJF. Only on the basis of this Article could the Constitutional Court essentially reject this article of the law. Secondly, a violation of the principle or right to social security and the right to a pension referred to in Article 50 of the Constitution. The pension has a dual nature, is economic and depends on the contributions paid and also contains elements of solidarity. By reducing pensions to 25%, there has also been an anti-constitutional interference in pensions, social security and excessive interference with the right to a pension referred to in Article 50. It is unfair and disproportionate that the burden of a reduction representing less than one percent of the value of all pensions must be borne by less than 5% of pensioners who are reduced under Article 143. We have chosen this target group as the biggest victim of the economic crisis we are facing. Infringement of the principle of trust in the law and expected rights. 155. Article 15 of the Constitution prohibits the retroactive effect of regulations. Exceptionally, an individual provision may be regarded as retroactive if it does not prejudice the rights acquired. Article 143 of the ZUJF does not refer to retroactivity in the sense that the law would reduce pensions backwards, but it does interfere with the rights provided for by the decision, by virtue of Article 158 of the Constitution. It is an unfair retroactivity, an act of trust in law as a rule of law and an expected right under Article 2 of the Constitution. Infringement of the prohibition of discrimination provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution, infringement of the principle of clarity and certainty of the rules. The anti-constitutional effect has its own way of executing the ZUJF. It's written in a way that everyone understands it differently. Spiz, we, Vlada. It is a violation of the standards set by the Constitutional Court and the European Convention on Human Rights in its case law. Colleagues and colleagues! I lay on your heart, make your own decisions and save you a lot of procedures, a lot of hours, a lot of trouble for pensioners who didn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u144	Thank you. To explain the Government's opinion, I now give the floor to Dr. Janez Šuštaršič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u145	Your Honor! Let me first mention a fact that is known, but it must nevertheless be said in the context of the consideration of this proposal for amendments to the law. The state budget spends about €400 billion a year in pension allowance, and public finances have to be balanced to see what we can do about it. This transfer from the budget to the pension fund is based on two articles of the pension law, namely 30 % of all pension fund expenditure, a billion of which is based on the fact that contributions from salaries and other incomes do not raise enough funds to pay the pension fund. The second part, a third, or 440 million in last year, is based on the fact that the budget under the Pension Insurance Act is due to cover PPIZ all those payments, which are not based on paid contributions but are based on specific rules, on retirement under more favourable conditions, of course all on the basis of certain laws, but on the benefits granted by the State to certain groups of people in the past. And it would be difficult for us to imagine any attempt to balance public finances if we did not in some way intervene in these 440 million. This is ultimately a large amount and we have estimated that something has to be done here. What we did in what we proposed in this law, we tried to follow the general principles that we generally followed in the Public Finance Balance Act, that is to say that we tried to act by affecting a lot of groups of people, and everything was about the same, and we were protecting those with the lowest benefits. This article, which is today a draft amendment, does not reduce the pensions of anyone who does not receive at least the average pension. For those who receive above average pensions, it reduces them in the part where they are covered by these 440 additional millions and also in such a way that the percentage of the reduction depends on the amount of the pension that someone receives. So those who receive the highest pension go down the most. That is why we have also been able to hear about the amounts of several hundred euro reductions. The ceiling set for pensions based on these special rights under Article 232 has been set at EUR 1,000 450, still 1.5 times the average Slovenian salary. In this follow-up to the general principle of recourse to remuneration, we reduce this transfer from the remuneration budget based on certain specific rights based on Article 232 it is also necessary to say that these rights, based on this Article, are very different. Very different categories of people, very different bases for some additional pensions are included in this article. This can come from some status of a person, something that has once been in the past, but it can also come from the lack of conditions for full retirement, such as mothers who were not insured in the first year of a child's age and so on. We have tried to write the article in such a way as to be proportionate and to intervene in those rights which are at least in some way justified, which are least related to the payment of contributions, by what is a pension by nature. There could have been a category too affected here, we are ready to talk about it, I think the government coalition has already expressed its readiness to agree on some meaningful amendment to this article. What is proposed today is difficult to support as the Government. The financial implications, which are not assessed in the proposal itself, would, in our opinion, be 60 million already this year, and we do not support this bill at the same time without the proposal saying where to save it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u146	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u147	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues and colleagues from the positive Slovenia Group, who have now joined us. In the introduction, you said that the budget must spend a billion EUR 400 million a year on the pension fund from the budget, of course. Yes, as long as the pension box office is not cleared, and this is what we want in our parliamentary group and also in our client DeSUS. I hope that we will also be able to achieve this in this mandate. For the start of the debate on this law, which deletes all the other articles of Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, the DeSUS Group, by the way, asks why the article is not completely deleted, i.e. in the key paragraph one. Let me explain that it is here that the opposition does not care about the coordination of pensions, because it does not propose that this year, at least in November, they should be harmonised. In principle, however, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the findings of the bill's proponents that the Public Finance Balance Act has not sufficiently intervened in a certain part of the pension. That is why we believe that certain corrections are needed in our parliamentary group. As far as I know, most coalition parties have such opinions. However, in the parliamentary group, we want these corrections not to rush, as we did with the law, because the repetitive bad solutions and mistakes would reopen dissatisfaction and cause the impact of pensioners. Our generally accepted position was, and is still, at the time of the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, that austerity measures can only be applied to those portions of pensions which are privileged and which are not due to paid contributions from the past work and are above average and austerity measures are necessary. We are opinions and still think today that saving in all the segments that are drawn from the budget is proportionate and smallly necessary in all areas, as it is only in this way that we will curb the excessive use of public funds and thus contribute to the stabilisation and sustainability of public finances and, consequently, to the resolution of the crisis. In this direction, I expect to see a government amendment to the law that we are looking forward to within a month of September. In doing so, the current impact of the savings law on pensions will be carefully examined, and the specific categories of pensions that have been reduced and the eligibility or ineligibleness of their reductions will be assessed. We also expect data from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group today, we would not want to discuss substantively what future changes are supposed to look like, but we will try to ensure that, in the event of the need to save rights to individual categories, they are linked to the condition of payment of contributions. The opinion of the parliamentary group on the amendment procedure under consideration, as proposed by fellow members of the opposition, is that it is unrealistic in view of the public financial situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u148	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u149	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! In this Chamber I once again welcome the Members of Positive Slovenia. I must say, we missed you. Without you, the debates are much more boring, so I hope that you will return and stop your obstruction as soon as possible. If I'm trying to explain or present our position through an illustration, I'd say the following. If we imagine that our beloved Slovenia is like a company that employs 10 people, and this company is able to pay only 8 workers and not two workers at any given time. And for these two workers, our Slovenia is in constant and constant debt. Somewhere it must be said that this situation is unsustainable and that this is no longer going forward. And ZUJF, which we accepted months ago, made us thank one of these 10 workers for their cooperation, and for one, we owed ourselves, and for the other 8 we managed to raise enough money to pay them. Together, we are aware that the ZUJF was painful and unpleasant. No one's denying it. However, he was urgently needed to have pensioners and also public servants at the end of the year of retirement and salary. ZUJF and I have tried, in one way or another, to shift the burden of this crisis to all social groups. This proposal, which came from the opposition, is somehow trying to give some ratings to only one social group, and these are pensioners. And the danger that could happen is if we bring down the ZUJF at this point, then the whole ZUJF can fall. And you know that very well in the opposition. This time, the correction of the ZUJF in the area of pensioners came. In a few hours, perhaps minutes after this law is passed, those who advocate family rights will come forward, and they too will want to have their own corrections. A little later, public servants will also call, and they too will want to have their own. And eventually this ZUJF is going down anyway. And before the ZUJF falls, Slovenia may fall before that. If this is in the interest of the opposition, O.K., if it is not, then perhaps we all agree together that this proposal was a bill tabled by the opposition overridingly radical and that the ZUJF is using all possible truths and non-truths in this debate. If I say just a few specific things that are related to the ZUJF and relate to pensions. All those who have low pensions, including my grandmother, i.e. those who have pensions of less than €414, have not changed anything for them, they receive the same pension and will also receive a full-time holiday allowance. Those with pensions of up to €622 will be reduced in some part of this recreational allowance and still receive full pensions. For those pensioners who have low pensions, virtually nothing has changed. The government's promise to protect the weak actually came true. But I would like to point out one more thing, the definition of a pension. I think we all agree that the pension should come from the funds paid. It's a pension, and it doesn't go down. Various additions are added to this pension, I do not know, the additions received by the fighters from the time of the NOB, the additions received by former employees of the former State Security Service, the additions received by employees of the former JLA, including the additions received by employees who worked in the republics of the former Yugoslavia and paid for those bills. Unfortunately, this ZUJF, and during this period of ours, is another thing that has fallen on us, but this is a matter of the former government, namely the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which was adopted in the previous mandate and entered into force on 1 January this year, which abolished so-called state pensions, which were slightly less than EUR 200. This is due to another law that no one will have the feeling that this ZUJF is interfering with it. If things get a little messy. I am convinced that the opposition's proposal in this part is too radical and therefore does not have our support. He's not even fair. Why? If you were monitoring only the media or the media, you could also track, among other things, the various individuals who protested and showed their letters saying that their pension or their revenues were falling from EUR 500 to EUR 200 and were justly or unjustly angry that they had lost EUR 300. Now let us ask ourselves whether it is fair for those with slightly higher pensions to be assured of these pensions, but those who have a pension of EUR 400, 500, which is a large group, which is silent and for which no one stands. I don't know, maybe by rejecting this opposition proposal, it's time for us to talk soberly over the summer and after the summer, to think things over, but maybe it's also fair that if we want to give the pensioners our own, that part of these things have been paid out of the budget, which is why individuals now have their pension or income reduced from a thousand 500 euros to a thousand 300 euros to give that money to those who are now receiving a pension of 400, 500 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u150	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Pandora's box is open. New scandalous cases of political games, manipulations fall from it, I hope. In this context, there is also a scandalous statement by one of the ministers of this government that the pension should be tied to the number of children. We listen to daily stories about the need to consolidate public finances, the President of the Government threatens us with early elections, threatened us with the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, and threatens us today. Some government officials, including Members, speak of privileged pensions, credit ratings that have been duly abolished. These statements, respected colleagues and colleagues, my assessment reveal the real purpose of government saving, which means ideological accounting with some categories of pensioners – with only some. For this price, the Government is prepared to cut into international treaties and overrun even its own constitution. Today, the Minister of Finance said he was concerned about the pension fund. In the same breath, he sets up a state holding company and presents, if you will, a cowardly flight over Kadu. We're saving non-equity state banks with a pension fund. Today, it is clear that the government coalition has caused new injustices through the mega-savory law passed by Parliament. At the end of last month, 26 thousand 341 pensioners, political electorates, were also deprived of that law up to a quarter of their income, pensions. 7 000 512 persons, participants in NOB and other war veterans, Spanish fighters, national heroes, partisan monuments, victims of war violence, 8 000 84 persons who were employed in the former Yugoslavia area, 3 000 953 persons, interns, refugees, labour deportations, a thousand 160 persons who received pensions under the Law on the Correction of Blame, 241 persons who received or receive extraordinary pensions, including top athletes, cultural workers for outstanding achievements, including miners. They're still working on MNZ, prisons, and the rest of them, not to mention everyone. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This temple of democracy was adopted at the May session by the Law on Public Finance Balance. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this law indicated the possibility of non-constitutionality in certain parts. We also pointed out this in Positive Slovenia when we asked you to take such extensive legal matter into account. Among other things, we have tabled an amendment to the pension work. Look at the outcome of the vote. You got him smooth! And when President DeSUS today says that, with support of lowering pensions, he did not know what he was doing, because the Government, his government, did not give him all the details of the law, I seriously wonder how far an individual's ignorance could go to the elections and electorates or citizens of this country. That a mistake has been made, today Minister Šuštersič also publicly acknowledges. While the government predicts changes in autumn, again only for some categories of pensioners. At the same time, the government is trying to find an excuse for its actions. While the president, as well as some others, are still talking about privileges, in Slovenia it becomes embarrassing to be a top athlete or – here I will use the words of the Saturday commentator, quote, "the party takes the money substitute for the blood and sweat they have embedded in Slovenia's sovereignty". Among other things, Minister Hoys said, I quote, "Constant talk about those who have been wronged by lowering pensions is not enough." So I don't say "temporary," specific story. I quote: "For the gradual abolition of coal mining in Slovenia, the Slovenian Government has passed the Law on Extraordinary Pensions in Coal." It's not about superstandard pensions. "I myself adopted this law and retired in 1999 with a 31-year working age. My entire working time was regularly allocated to the pension fund and the state did not contribute anything. Since I was still nine years old until I was 40 years old, my pension base fell by 18%, 2% for every missing year. The pension decision I received from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states that the Republic of Slovenia guarantees my pension and is paid in full from the state budget, but only until the retirement age is reached, then the pension payment is transferred to the STIZ." That was the law, that was the decision. This person was reduced by EUR 100 to EUR 641. Second story. My grandmother worked in Macedonia for seven years as a nurse. It wasn't another country back then, but it was the fraternal Socialist Republic of the same country. Then she came to Slovenia, got married, worked until she retired, and now she was reduced by 140 euros or six, because she is "missing" seven years. When she worked in Macedonia, she regularly paid all her contributions. Third story, then a 16-year-old boy had to work in Bosnia in a lignite mine against his will. This gentleman, today a pensioner, from his own country Slovenia, will experience a new punishment. He's got a 50-euro pension. The culmination of cynicism is that these people cannot demand differences from either Bosnian or Serbian or Macedonian pension registers, Slovenia has committed itself to an international agreement. Another 8,000 81 pensioners are in a similar situation. Guilts have been committed, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps these 8,000 Yugo pensioners, as I'll call them, are merely collateral damage that the government, which does not otherwise open ideological topics, may have reduced the fighting and military pensions, perhaps. In such cases, I ask myself about the value of human dignity and the value of my own history. I hope we're not talking about a new historical error. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law that we have drafted in the opposition, in Positive Slovenia and the SD, and which is before us today, is correcting all the injustices that I have been talking about, and also those that I have not been able to disclose because of the time constraints, but have undoubtedly occurred in the framework of the Public Finance Balance Act. And when we press the push button for or against today, it is good that we are once again aware that someone will feel the consequences of our action. Today is undoubtedly a new opportunity for those governmental parliamentary groups as well, and here I appeal mainly to DeSUS and the National List, which frankly acknowledge that mistakes have been made to correct these mistakes for the benefit of citizens and citizens of this country. Unfortunately for some, justice remains blindfolded. I hope that we will all close our eyes today and vote in favour of the law, because this allows us to correct the injustices that have been committed today, not the second year or never at all. Otherwise, at this point in time, I predict that we will also begin to collect signatures for the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to submit a request for a constitutional review of government law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u152	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we look at this topic, we must first look at the reasons why the law on public finances has come into play. And the reasons were obvious at the time. In the last three, four years, the country has spent more, two billion more each year than it has created. That is why we have committed ourselves, and this has led to a significant increase in the state debt, from 8 to 16, to 17 billion later, and public consumption in gross social product has increased from less than 3% to more than 6%. In fact, this could jeopardise the financial situation in the country and therefore public spending had to be reduced. The reduction in public consumption was carried out in a balanced manner. Various groups of people received lower incomes, including some pensioners, pensioners for whom no contributions were paid, and pensioners who had a higher pension than EUR 622. In other words, this means that after the previous system, some received money, received various supplements, even though no contributions were paid for them. We call that solidarity in the pension system. And it is right that there is solidarity. But the question is, to what extent is solidarity, which is the amount that means the amount by which there is no solidarity anymore. In this case, we opted for an amount of EUR 622 or, as colleague Tonin said, a lower amount for the so-called recreational supplement. In other words, this means that certain pensioners received various allowances, also received money from the pension fund on the basis of unpaid contributions, and on the basis of not working for 40 years of age, is valid for men, or less women. This means that the pension law itself gives some people the opportunity to get more than others. This raises the question of justice, whether it is fair or not. In my personal opinion, pensions and the amount of pensions should come from work. I want Social Affairs covered by the budget. And as the representative of Dessus said, the pension fund needs to be cleared. This is a task to be done in the coming months of the following year. Why? To give people a pension on the basis of what they paid, taking into account the principle of solidarity. Today, there have also been many speeches about violations of constitutional principles. It is very easy to talk about violations of constitutional principles. In any event, I would like to draw attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the requirement to assess the constitutionality of Article 2, paragraph 3, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. Among other things, it concluded that the contested decisions, these are decisions that are being amended today, for which this law proposes to amend these decisions, are not unconstitutional. I quote the third point, of course you can also read the other two, "the contested provisions regulate the amount of the pension of certain beneficiaries and the amount of the annual allowance to beneficiaries of pensions or certain benefits from disability insurance, but do not regulate the working position of workers. Therefore, the contested provisions do not prejudice the rights of workers." Here the Constitutional Court has not yet defined substantively, but we simply have a decision by the Constitutional Court, and this decision is adopted unanimously that the Constitutional Court rejects the request, meaning in other words that we are talking easily about non-constitutionality. I always say that the Constitutional Court should decide on unconstitutionality. I'm not qualified to talk about something unconstitutional. And here this decision of the Constitutional Court confirms that it has in fact rejected this request. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, of course, there may have been errors in the adoption of the law, that there have been possible irregularities in the law, which was quickly adopted. We will do our utmost to examine the effects of this law, to analyse and propose any changes based on analysis and such analysis that will be made for all the people and for all the inhabitants of this country. That is why we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u154	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u155	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. When considering today's draft law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance, we find that the parties to the ruling coalitions in the coalition contract have identified the values from which they are to come at the time of government management. The fundamental values of the coalition include, among other things, solidarity, concern for the fellow human being and ensuring equal opportunities for all, connectivity and constructiveness and patriotism, which the coalition sees as a debt to all those generations that have pushed the way to our independent country. Many beautiful, resounding words, but the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, which was adopted, show that the ruling coalition has put the above-mentioned value of the coalition contract completely aside and has opened the door wide to the practice of adopting reckless, restrictive measures in a swift manner and after the legal dispute is reduced by legal rights. We have already warned the Social Democrats at the time of the consideration of the savings law in the National Assembly that the law has a number of serious shortcomings, in our view also of constitutional nature. We have also pointed out that the Public Finance Balance Act is not balanced in terms of interference in particular areas, as well as in terms of the consequences of the implementation of the law for the majority of the population and residents of our country. More. We can argue that the savings law undermines the fundamental principles of solidarity in Slovenian society by being overly selective and, in some cases, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Convention on Human Rights and contrary to international agreements. We are confident of this and hope that the arguments will also convince the Constitutional Court. This is precisely why we decided in the Group of Members that we, together with the Members of the Positive Slovenia, should introduce a law whereby we want to amend Article 143 of this Act, since this article is certainly one that is selective, discriminatory and, in our opinion, a non-constitutional way of interfering with both acquired and expected pensioners' rights. The main purpose of the amendment of the law is to maintain the right to a pension under special conditions and the right to an annual allowance as exercised before the entry into force of the savings law. There are more reasons for us to return these rights; namely: The Government has created, in our view, the rights of special pensions under the measures of Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act in a non-constitutional way, because it has not only negatively aligned those pensions, as they would like to say, but those above EUR 622 have disproportionately reduced on a permanent basis on the basis of the scale. Thus, the pensions of some pensioners have been reduced by more than 24% following the entry into force of the savings law. In doing so, the law did not provide for solutions to ensure the legal protection of the rights of insured persons. The pension reduction was notified only on the basis of a notification and not by a decision. It's a disaster! Therefore, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance must also issue decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and not give notice as provided for by the law. So, in one case, the Constitutional Court has already complied with our warnings and demands. We would also like to point out that beneficiaries who receive pensions under special conditions are not treated in article 143 in the same way. Thus, on the basis of the provisions of the second and third paragraphs of this Article, pensions have been reduced by around 26 thousand 300 beneficiaries. However, in the same article of the Savings Act, the exceptions are those groups of pensioners whose pensions are not or will not be reduced. In doing so, the Public Finance Balance Act does not specify any criteria on the basis of which such a distinction between individual groups of pension beneficiaries would be justified under any specific conditions. So there are simply no criteria for such a decision. The law also encroached on the right to an annual allowance of pensioners. The sixth paragraph of Article 143 lays down disproportionate restrictions on the payment of the annual pension allowance, which is around 210 thousand, and simply provides that the 210 thousand beneficiaries are no longer entitled to the annual allowance. Therefore, the measure by which the savings law interferes with the right to a pension and an annual allowance is, in our view, inappropriate. This is not to be finally demonstrated through a number of complaints, objections that pensioners have so far submitted to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, as well as constitutional complaints that do not come only from individuals or interested societies, but also from the Ombudsman. Last but not least, that this law is not all right and this article recognises the very government coalition itself, which agrees that in the part of the savings law that interferes with pensions, adjustments are necessary. In doing so, we would like to point out that if you propose amendments to re-create additional discrimination and dissension between pensioners, of course they will not be acceptable. We believe, however, that this bill, which we have tabled in the procedure of the Member and Members of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia, will be maintained in the process and, even in the autumn, will form common solutions that would benefit all beneficiaries and thus prevent the great injustice that has occurred to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u156	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! It is not often that all political parties are so united, if not even unanimous in some kind of darkness. The need to limit public spending and the consolidation of public finances are among these topics. The professional public also shares the view that measures must be taken as quickly as possible to adapt state spending to what we create. And that's what we've done with the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. The measures taken by this law have also been supported in the Civil Gazette, because we believe they are important for Slovenia and for our future. We are aware that only healthy economic growth can form the basis for general prosperity and therefore it is essential to strike a balance between the social state and a more competitive and difficult economy. The measures taken by the Public Finance Balance Act have also addressed areas that are particularly sensitive for citizens; that is, education, health, social. And it is true that we have intervened in some of the rights already acquired, and we believe that these measures are balanced, temporary, fair and do not affect the rights of those citizens who have low incomes. Good fifteen days after the entry into force of the law there are warnings in the public about disproportionate interventions in certain areas, such as pensions. In the Civil Gazette, we agree that the Act on the Balance of Public Finances in Retirement contains anomalies or disproportionate measures and therefore, in view of the warnings, it is necessary to examine thoroughly the effects of the law in practice and to prepare appropriate corrections as they are clearly necessary. This needs to be done thoughtfully so that we do not create new imbalances. We cannot support the bill in the Citizens' List, as this proposal completely eliminates the austerity effects and creates new imbalances. However, we call on the Government to examine the effects of the ZUJF in practice and to prepare appropriate solutions. Solutions should be directed towards respect for the pension age of individuals, regardless of where the pension fund has been paid, without prejudice to the rights acquired being excessive. From the start, we have advocated the principle that reducing public spending must be balanced, evenly distributed between different social groups and fairly. It has been obvious that we have not followed this principle in pensions, so action will have to be taken. The National List expects coalition partners and, in particular, the Government to be the appropriate solution at the September table. If this does not happen, we will draw up a proposal for a new law, either alone or in cooperation with other parties, perhaps even opposition ones. Finally, let me stress once again that the excessive indebtedness of the state leads to the loss of its sovereignty and autonomy in the formulation of fiscal policy and must not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u158	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u159	Honorable President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Just a few introductions to start, because in the Slovenian People's Party we think that the obvious undeniable fact must be repeated several times. We are all more or less familiar with the economic situation in Europe and the world. All developed countries have embarked on a reformist path due to the decline in economic activity and the consequences of the recession. The wisest were done in the golden days before the crisis. In Slovenia we covered the economy expansion there with a large spoon until 2008. It's true, we haven't made a reservation, we haven't reformed until then. But we're not in the next three years. With the exception of the pension reform, which we are well aware of, whose votes have at all passed the vote in the National Assembly, there has been no serious structural reform on the parliamentary bench. Neither has there been any more serious interference with public expenditure. We replaced the manka in the budget by borrowing abroad and the crisis did not practically touch Slovenia in terms of living standards. These stories are over, and now we have no more dilemmas or savings, but where and how. If we want to compete at least roughly economically with other countries and not just live, then we need to reduce public expenditure and relieve the economic sector at first. With the Public Finance Balance Act, we have reached out to the widest spectrum of public spending. The purpose was to cover all categories of beneficiaries, and pensions were no exception. In the Slovenian People's Party, we were sharp against the linear reduction of pensions, so it is easier to put all pensions down by a certain percentage. No! No! First, because many of the pensions we are in are already so shamefully low, and secondly, it would be very inappropriate to interfere with the pensions of those who have earned them after they have been working their entire working life. We have thus reached into the pensions paid by the budget and which are above average in relation to most of the pensions paid. Today, the country is already providing 1.4 billion euros per year for pensions. I am convinced that, for this reason, it also has the right to restrict those who receive the most of this money to some extent. Why? Because the situation in our treasury is what they are. But it can happen that tomorrow's pension money won't even be there. The law provides for the deletion of the second paragraph of the legal article on the balance of public finances, where, on the basis of solidarity, there is a maximum of EUR 100 to EUR 933 for pensions paid by the state budget and above EUR 622 to EUR 777; for pensions up to EUR 933 for a maximum of EUR 150; for pensions up to EUR 88, a maximum of EUR 200, and so on. The higher the pension, the more we take. Isn't that an example of solidarity? Isn't that the case that should apply in the social state? Is it not what the Slovenian political left is supposed to be about to protect those who have the least, but at the same time burden those who have more. I think we did it in the coalition, but now you want the proponents to stop it. You also want to delete the third paragraph, which limits the maximum pension paid to the budget, to a thousand 450 euros. Your Honor, who is the one who deserves to be paid a month's rent on this sum? Is our standard truly so that we can afford such special merit awards? Not to be misunderstood: it is right to reward them for the credits and athletes for their outstanding achievements, culturers and so on. But do we have to pay them 2,000 euros in pension? Then there's the annual pension allowance. Isn't this supplement now arranged for solidarity to be obtained by the most in need? Is it not similar to the regression, where we also decided to settle it according to income, so the ones who have the lowest wages get it most? The MEPs of the Slovenian People's Party feel this way fair and solidarity. Dear fellow Members and colleagues! However, we cannot get past this change. In the changes to social legislation, some have abolished state pensions in the previous term. Almost 15,000 of the elderly have been taken away from exactly those fights of 189 euros. Most of it was the only income. With rare exceptions, a large majority of these 15,000 elderly rural women or households who have spent their entire lives working alongside their husbands on farm holdings and have had no opportunity to contribute; they have not been able to do so. This was also a right acquired, respected colleagues from SD, who interrupt me when I speak. At that time, none of the members of the then coalition in the previous term, today quite a bit in the opposition, raised your voice. Even when Members of the Slovenian People's Party asked you to at least leave state pensions to those currently receiving them. No, no, no. At the time, you were strong, and you sent these people for social assistance. Today you have taken sides with people who receive special, exceptional pensions from the state budget for special merits and so on. And these pensions are well above a thousand euros a month, some even a thousand 500 or more. So, where is your sense of justice, solidarity, social state now? There's something else that needs to be highlighted. Today, the changes in legislation do not pose a social threat to any of those whose pensions have been reduced. Because if he was threatened by a reduction, then what is less than €600 with 340,000 pensioners? And worst of all, most of these 340,000 people have worked their entire lives, worked in social factories, businesses, while most of the people who have lost their pension do not have the conditions to retire or are retired on another legal basis. So they're not the problem. But you are concerned about those who still have more than that amount under the new law. This concern does not seem logical to me that there are thousands of pensioners protesting on the road today with a thousand, thousand, 300 euros in pension. There's something wrong here. There's no dispute between pensioners here. Let it be clear that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will participate in the correction of the injustices that have occurred to some of these laws. The competent ministry is already examining the situation with regard to cases where contributions have been paid to some of the other Yugoslav republics. For this is indeed not a problem of the beneficiary, but a matter of agreements between countries. Corrections to the law in this direction are expected in the autumn. But as has already been said: the crisis applies to everyone, including to pensions under special conditions – with all due respect also for national liberation fighters, by the way. My father is also an active participant in the national liberation war, and ZUJF has not hurt him because he receives 49 euros of monthly rent, the difference between 420 and 470 because he is a farmer. If you were a worker, you'd have a higher base of 300 euros. We're talking about solidarity. Because he's a farmer, he's got a lower base, and it didn't hurt him. And my mom has 380 euros in pension. By the way, my dad's probably gonna spend five, six hours on the tractor today when I'm here. What I'm trying to say is that we're going to be involved in the repairs, and today we're going to reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u160	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič may be included in the debate on behalf of the applicant at any time. Here you go. You have the floor. The Government can also be involved at any time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, in my introduction, I really insisted on a legal argument, why we think it is wise to amend article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act ourselves. On purpose. You know that constitutional complaints are being filed, that the Ombudsman will also present them today, and this time the Constitutional Court will certainly not be able to find a perimeter so that it does not decide on the content, as procedural reasons are always becoming more important than content. The task of the Constitutional Court is to judge the content: whether the law is contrary to the Constitution or not is contrary to the Constitution. We claim that this law is contrary to the Constitution. I deliberately reminded you of your own concerns. Mr President, it was you who said that we could not yet decide on the law on black work today because the legal deadline for the referendum had not yet expired. We have different rules here. It doesn't work, does it? If there is a constitution, the Constitution applies to everyone. Another time. As far as pensions are concerned. We have Bismarck's model of the pension system, which means that current pensioners receive pensions based on the payments of those who are active. When we halved – halved – the contribution rate for employers began to rise in the hole in the pension register in 1976. At the time, this was partially compensated by taxes on paid wages or what it was called, and then we stopped it, and employers still pay half as much as workers. That's one reason for a hole in the pension register. The second reason is to work too little, given the population we have. That's clear. That is why we rushed through a pension reform that we know has been rejected. In this pension reform, Mr Žveglič, it has also been written that family pensions should be maintained, and this has fallen. Well, it's not our fault, but it's our fault those who have rejected this pension reform. Today, as it is said, there is no pension that would not receive at least 20% of its pension from the budget. That's over a billion. More than a billion! On the other hand, we have these pensions, which are based on specific rules, international obligations, the Basic Constitutional Charter Act, which provides for a certain group of pensioners to be given part of the budget. When I listen to this debate, I feel like these people have never worked in their lives. Please! These are the people who worked, some also full-time pensioners, but the legislation allowed them to count a certain part of the years double. That's what they say. They're not parasites like you want to show, but they're people who have worked and earned their pensions. What is the structure of the pensioners? As it is said, there are 8,000 people who have worked in other Yugoslav republics. They are guaranteed by law on the basis of agreements and regulations to receive pensions even for the part of the time when they were working in other republics. After all, they've been paying in the pension box all the time! We cannot say here that the budget is the one that actually replaces this revenue shortfall. They only paid off somewhere else, but we lived in another country. On the other hand, we have 7,000,500 people who fought the war for Slovenia. In their work, in their war, on their victims, our today's freedom is built up by Slovenia alone. Some have also been hungry for four years and have lived in the cold and fought for us to enjoy what we have today. The only thing the law gave them was a double count of those years. Is that too much? Is this guilt? Come in. 3 thousand 900 people: internees, refugees, working deportations — are they parasites? Are these the victims of World War II?Oh, my God! Come in. Employees in the Ministry of the Interior and in prisons. We can also count on those who have been administratively retired. I receive daily letters from people who are being wronged. First, the free Slovenia forced them to retire, and against this they had no right to object, and now it punishes them by taking their pension. What can we say about political prisoners? The people who have been wronged in the previous system are now chandelier again, once again! And let's take what we've confessed to them! Are those parasites? The pensions that people receive are largely the result of their work, such as their work for other pensioners. We must be aware of this, and if we are to strive for what a fellow SDS party said, that people should get only as much as they deserve – I have already talked about it, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! I told you that then the vast majority of pensioners, due to the destruction of the criterion of solidarity, will slip even lower than today and only those who are God-given will be lucky to have worked in well-paid jobs, have higher pensions and all the others are lower. This is the so-called individual account, which I always remind you of, and I am also asking you not to go in this direction, because in many countries this system has not proved to be good. Mr Jurša says, yes, if we clean up the pension allowance, we will all live on the basis of the contributions paid, pensions will be proportionate. It's not true, ma'am and gentlemen! This billion, which we are paying in the pension box, also allows those pensioners who are now at a minimum to receive at least this minimum. Do you realize that? Cleaning it up won't bring it. Come on, let's get some clean wine! Come in. As far as state pensions are concerned. That's what I'd say. State pensions were granted unconditionally, on the basis of the right under the Disability and Pension Insurance Act and when we abolished this desire we did not have, and we wanted to solve the problem with SPIZ 2, as I have already said. At the time of their abolition, however, these people were able to join the social security system, as let us be aware, they were not paid for their state pension contributions. And if people have received about €180 or €190 before, there is now a minimum level of social security under the Social Protection Act or the law on the exercise of rights from public funds of €460. This is said to be the right of an individual to have a difference between his or her income and his or her family income and that level, of course taking into account his or her property. Personally, I had a problem with this property, and I still have a problem with understanding today. If you suggest that this can be a criterion that we exclude from the law – I will not have problems in support of this. I think we've been running too fast at this point. You say 26.7 million euros will bury us. See how easy it was for us to give leave to employers or owners of investment relief companies and so on. 170 million — when it will, if it will, what it will be! It doesn't have to bring one job alone. 170 million! Six times the amount! [[advertising from the hall]] The income tax — yes, the two — is that we do not go in detail. And we had no problems there — 170 million. Here 26.7 million will bury Slovenia. And I'm not saying we don't have to find this money. We can find ways. For example, just pull out of Marusic's drawer the law on the taxation of unhealthy diets, and you will get enough money for these purposes. Put him in place! Why don't we enforce it? Unhealthy lifestyle also affects our health and so on. You'll get that money. Or something else. Let us talk, but not in a way that violates the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, and that we somehow know what it means. See, the changes you will make – yes, new selection, new discrimination, new anti-constitutions! Is it really necessary to end this story in the European Court of Human Rights? And believe me, this epilogue will reach if in this country we do not have the wisdom and courage to admit – we have made a mistake, it is right to correct something that has been wrong. Then, together, we seek solutions that are more just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u162	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u163	I cannot believe how easy it is for some in this Chamber to tell about cases, using only those extreme cases on purpose and forgetting that they receive, say, agricultural subsidies. But this rent is fair? This rent, however, is just — because it is received by a person who speaks with a balance of scale about the injustices that occur in society. I'm sorry, I don't think that's right! What I would expect mainly from the coalition Members is a minimum awareness that there has also been some injustice in the Bulldozer way of adopting the Public Finance Balance Act. At least that's how much you hope to confess. By the way, family pensions were only about changing the title with the possibility of achieving the same income from another cash register, in line with what some had already promised in previous discussions – the clearance of the pension register. In particular, those who swear to the law have to look at a number of cases, virtually all the notices of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance, where there was no legal instruction in the notification of the reduction of the pension due to the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, no possibility of any legal remedy. Does this mean a final settlement with the rule of law? Does this mean that the authorities have become completely arbitrary and that there is no means against this authority, even if it beats your individual right? No! No! I respectfully ask that the Law on the Balance of Public Finances and its way of adopting into horror, recklessly, without any of us having the opportunity to really consider what the individual provisions of the law mean and what its consequences for the fates of people will be, in this way, to teach you that we will no longer adopt laws in the National Assembly. And please take this lesson in the coming days, when we will vote on the laws that she has proposed in an even faster way, with even less debate on this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u164	Mr. Franz Puksič has been reported, but he is not. It's mag. Majda Potrat, followed by Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. ZUJF is a leap into an empty pool, it brings injustices, but the crisis is a time when solidarity and justice must be emphasized in particular. Without the criteria that were not explained in the bill or in the debate, she did a great injustice to 26 000 pensioners. And now, as you may hear, you will make a new selection — only by what criteria!? Perhaps, though, that criterion on children will at least bring to a child a father who will acknowledge fatherhood without [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u166	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. For her, the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I would briefly comment on this proposal tabled by members of the opposition. First of all, I'd say that the ZUJF's mistakes were undeniably done. There have been disproportionate measures, and I believe that this proposal is justified. The reduction of pensions for some groups, such as pensioners who receive a pension for a working period that they have worked in the former SFRJ, is unacceptable to me. SFRJ was the country we all lived in, and the people who worked in that country at the time cannot be punished for it. That's not right. Nor is it right that we have affected the fighters of the NOB, the Spanish fighters, the master fighters who fought for our northern border, that we have harmed the refugees of the internationals. It's also not right for us to have hurt the former military guards. That former workers of the internal affairs authorities, the detention agencies and other employees who carried out military service are affected. Other errors that have been identified should be taken into account and these errors corrected. There are people in the regression, I have to tell you, I'm very hurt. In fact, one who has two euros more than the limit doesn't get the regression and this man can understand why he didn't get it. There is a difference here and we have violated the principle of equality in my humble knowledge of law. Mr Šircelj said in his presentation of the SDS Group's views that they would analyse the situation and study the effects of the ZUJF, for all the people and residents of this country, and make changes, so I understood it, and I also expect that the coalition will engage in this direction. I hope and expect the Government to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the UUJF, which will remedy these mistakes and violations of this error, violations of constitutional rights and violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. Now, I would like to say a few more words about unconstitutionality; that some in the National Assembly feel that the constitutional court should decide on the unconstitutionality of the acts, the laws to which we adopt them. Yes, it is, and that is why we have the Constitutional Court to judge the conformity of laws and other acts with the Constitution, but I cannot agree with it, and I believe that Members of the National Assembly must not forget that we must adopt such laws as we believe to be in conformity with the Constitution and that we may fail to have a Article contrary to the Constitution, but not that we already know in advance that we are in violation of the Constitution and we say that the Constitutional Court will find it. This, in my humble knowledge of law, constitutional law, is not acceptable. I would also point out that it is also high time for us to stop adopting laws in the National Assembly in short and urgent cases where laws that need to be discussed are broader and more thorough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u168	Mag. Ivan Vogrin, it will be Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u169	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm starting to think it's human to be wrong. Everyone who does a lot of work sometimes gets confused. The government has already announced that the Public Finance Balance Act is likely to have some errors and will need to be amended. This is a good forecast, and it shows that we are aware that some beneficiaries may have been wronged and that they need to be corrected. The law that is now under consideration runs by normal procedure, if I understand it correctly, is the first consideration, so there are plenty of opportunities and opportunities to find good solutions. Together, not everyone on their own. I believe that there is much chance of saving and that the Government has rightly approached when it has put the savings law into procedure and into reception, but I think that it is necessary to do so in a very sensitive and very delicate way. It is difficult to understand, or difficult to understand, those who have minimum wages, who have minimum pensions or who have very low pensions to take from, given that we have huge structural differences, which no one hopes or is unable to cope with. How do we explain the fact that in a public health institution, the director has twice as much salary as the Prime Minister? Wouldn't we be saving up here? Shouldn't we be saving up here?Oh, my God! Such structural anomalies are enormous. Next. In the period 2008-2012 public sector employment increased by 4.9% and in the economy, the full budget fell by 14.1%. Let's make these changes! Next, he's crying. Gross public sector wages increased by 17.3% in the period 2008-2012 and decreased by 1.1% in the economy. Do you know what this is like in comparable European countries? They're different relationships. So the savings options are huge. I will tell you the story of where we make the mistakes that the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia told me two hours ago – which has a direct connection to saving, which we will learn. His daughter was four years old when she decided to buy a Mercedes. He really told me that. I can tell you his name. The child is now 12 years old and has saved 10,000 euros. And since she had saved her money and she was good and her parents were, of course, referring her to saving, her mother, because you have to put on a social data centre, was at 30 euro of a child's allowance. Is this the right way to promote savings? Do you know how many wrong solutions we have? We can talk one way and we can do the other. We call this child not to be saved because he's going to lose that. And what's Dad gonna do? I'll tell you that. People are smarter than we think. He's going to set up a society. My daughter will lend her loan to this company and she'll avoid it and she'll do the circuitry. This country has become a terror for citizens. Such stories, what we do wrong, are thousands, just listening to them we don't know and we don't know how to react. Let the people live. Who are we to keep taking them? And we don't do anything else in 21 years like scare people: you can't work because you can't organize into an appropriate economic branch; if you're saving, you're damaged. Wait, there's a lot of opportunities and opportunities. This law at first reading is a retrial. I did every exam in college the second time. The second time I passed every exam, and the first time I fell on one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u170	Mrs Romana Tomc, it will be Mr Jože Tanko's turn, if of course he comes to the hall, and otherwise Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Today we are talking about 26,000 pensioners who have been affected by the Public Finance Balance Act. That's 26,000 stories, not three stories, or five stories that we can present to the public here. I'm sure each one has its own background. To anyone who has been deprived of any right, of course, this is difficult to accept. However, every time it is used in this space for these 26,000 fates and people the term "parasites" compresses me at heart – in any context! These are people, these are pensioners who have been deprived of their rights or are affected. And no, we are not embarrassed to admit that if in this great law, trying to save the Slovenian treasury, our budget, and also the social state, there has been some injustice; we will look at it, we will fix it. That's why I wouldn't panic too much here. However, in the context of these individual fates, we should still look at the numbers a little bit. These numbers say that today we have 722 thousand employees who pay in pension bills, and we have 586 thousand pensioners who receive pensions. In addition, some 50,000 additional beneficiaries who receive a fraction of the pension from that widow’s pension work. So how is our Bismarck system going to hold up, I'm asking all of you who are such advocates? The Bismarck system is based on those who work and pay contributing to those who receive it. Now we will have to decide whether those who work will contribute even more, or whether those who receive will receive so much less. It's about fighting pensions, even though it's not my favorite topic. But out of 20,000 and a few fighter pensions, excuse me, there are more than 15,000 who are not given by the fighters, but by their families. Thus, blood and such heavy words should also be spoken with greater caution. Since time is running out, let me just say that, in fact, in the Public Finance Balance Act, we have followed the basic principle that at least those who have the least should be affected and that these measures are as fair for everyone as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u172	Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. After him, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Because I only have a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u174	Mr. President, just to clarify one thing. You can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it and it's impossible for me to misinterpret your debate. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u175	It used to be a good minute, but now it's bad. So the situation in public finances has certainly been such that some measures have to be taken, but I agree that measures in the area of economic promotion are also needed. The harmonisation of the law has been a long time and the fact is that some solutions are also criminal and have no logical basis, so I support the Government's views that it will re-examine certain solutions and make appropriate changes. However, once again, dear colleagues, and in particular the representative of the applicants, I must draw attention to state pensions. It is true that, thanks to us, state pensions have been reintroduced into the pension law, but they have already been deleted in the law on social transfers, according to the domestic statement. I have already warned at least a hundred times that it is not only state pensions that do not have a basis in paid contributions, but that the list is much longer; I think it is about 40 such special laws. And here we see the consequences today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u176	Mr Kavtičnik, procedural question or proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Because I am personally affected by this because it was mentioned that there was no blood flow, etc. My cousin, Praper Otokar, was commander of the 16th Troopers in Holmec, he was shot, eighteen gunshot wounds — I don't know if it's blood or not. He is a disabled person – he was taken from him 300 euros in pension. I don't think we should talk about blood running around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u178	Okay, Mr. Kavtičnik, you know I couldn't stop you from telling this story. But you've abused the rules of procedure, and you know it. Good. Does the proposer still want to take advantage of the time in this first round of discussion? Here you go, Dr. Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'll be back. I have drawn your attention to the unconstitutional consequences and to the use of the same criteria for equal anti-constitutions. That's the first thing I want to say. You're obviously not ready to listen to this. Another time. I used the word parasites because from the interpretations of some of our fellow Members, it was as if these people who received pensions under special conditions did not work. I only warned that they were working to ensure that the bulk of their pensions came from the working age, but they were done in different ways, but they also had some ratings on the basis of this work that we adopted by law. Another time. How will he handle our pension system? Yes, we have proposed a pension reform! Three times: "No," you said, gentlemen and ladies of the SDS! This pension system we proposed would solve the problem. I would prevent pensions from continuing to fall because that was the first assumption. And second, because we live longer, we should also work longer, we would all receive pensions at a relatively decent level. So you said, "No." Then what are we moving around for? We heard, "We want to change the pension system, instead of Bismarck's, we're going to introduce individual accounts." I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, where this is going. Fifteen years ago, Poland introduced individual accounts, it turned out that they do not yet have an orderly disability pension, that women have been subjected to total misery and that the majority of pensioners live at a minimum level. We come from a central European space based on its tradition. From the fact that we have what we have to build up. Probably the best model would be the Bismarck model that would be complemented by a point system, as my great friend and specialist in Tina Stanovnik's pension systems would tell you. But under the conditions that we wrote in the pension reform. This pension reform will have to be bitten if we like it or not. Before, it'll be better for us. Of course, I hope that, in agreement with the social partners, you will skip the mistake that we have made, but mea culpa, that is what happened. Perhaps this, Mr President, has spoken about many pensions that are not the result of paid contributions – yes, these things need to be regulated, but in a comprehensive, systematic way, in agreement with all involved and so that this will be maximum fair. This is our commitment, not our handiwork, as we do today. Yes, I support what Mr Vogrin and Mrs Porotat have said: let's support this law in the first reading, let's harmonise if this content is not the best, for now. Because today a complaint will be brought before the Constitutional Court by the Ombudsman; from now on, pensioners will have to receive decisions and will appeal to the court on the basis of these decisions. Of course, those who complain will have to have the money to do so. Let's save them, let's save ourselves, and let's face it, we have to respect the fundamental legal acts we have in this country. This is our fundamental duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The time for discussion has not yet come. That's why I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. The President has just moved because I know he will discuss and open the way for others to apply. Here you go, report. President, this time it was a mistake, you didn't have a card. Can we do it again? They say we can do it again. Please, we'll open the debate time again. Check in. So we have seven applicants. Mrs Majda Potrat will be the first to debate. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! When I said that the ZUJF jump into an empty pool, I mean that the ZUJF wasn't only painful and unpleasant, but that in many components it was unfair and harmful for development because what is unfair in this law is that not all the population groups were treated the same and in a masterly way argued among themselves individual groups. Just remember the controversy between the public sector and the real sector. As with constitutionality and legality, another story, and about it, my colleague Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič spoke a lot. Only what worries me in all these discussions is when I listen to Members and Members of the Coalition, what will happen if we experience the proposed pension reform on their part; whether it is expected that they will reach legal certainty so far as to require a new pension for all. Because, as they speak, there is no other option than to think about it because people were retired at different times under different conditions. And I am on the side of those who had no opportunity to make use of the agreement that Dr Virant and I were arguing at the time when he was still the Minister of Public Administration so that a public servant could exercise the right to continue working, but I argued that a public servant was a weaker article in the agreement; and this is now happening. Just look at what happens to those public servants who, according to their superiors, have to retire because they break their employment contracts. But Minister Visjak claims that no one is forcibly retired, but that they only terminate their employment contracts. How they stop it, it's a story for themselves. The cops are calling for help, too! At the time of the ZUJF, probably no one overlooked the fact that Minister Vizjak had made special arrangements with some groups, and if he found that there was a special change, if they were convincing and strong enough, they might have survived something else. But a particular problem in relation to what we are now talking about is the debate on high pensions. Can anyone tell me the definition of a high pension? What's a low pension? Like anyone, because poverty is an individual perception of poverty and probably what is a low pension for whom and what is a high pension for whom there is a high pension, it is also linked to individual perception. Retirement is an individual right and it is therefore understandable that we expect a pension based on the contributions paid, but here we cannot ignore the importance of solidarity embedded in this system and justice. And I associate justice with legal certainty. What is happening now is the destruction of the rule of law and is not a guarantee of legal certainty. We keep hearing that if any injustice is done, the injustice will be corrected. But why does a person who is a machined right have to put forth so much effort to prove this wrong? What about that one? You're not guilty until proven guilty? This is where you have to do the reverse procedure. I think there's a lot to talk about, and you're not convincing, so I'm sorry when you say you're going to make a new proposal. Who are you going to take out? Some say these, others; some say that they think they have a particularly disadvantaged group of former political prisoners, others say that it is wrong not to get those who have worked in other republics how did you get those who have not received pensions that are not based on paid contributions? [[...]] These are fundamental questions. You don't have any answers to them, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. It is certainly necessary to say that there are certain answers to certain questions, but the question is whether we are correct in speaking about each other and what one thinks and what the other thinks. First. I've talked a lot about solidarity today. I haven't talked about an individual account once, and I haven't even thought about it, even though some people think they know what I mean. I'm afraid that's not the case. I also explained the solidarity principle of the current regime and, in particular, the solidarity principle that was applied when the Public Finance Balance Act was adopted, and I talked about the amount of €622. I was talking about nothing being taken from anyone under this. For this reason, I would ask that even when it comes to at least the content, it is necessary to be a little more accurate here. The other thing I would like to say is that some of the things that have been said here in connection with pension reform simply do not hold. He doesn't think anyone's rejected the pension reform. The pension reform fell on the referendum. I think that should be said – people have decided at the referendum that that pension law was not appropriate. I think that in a democratic country, the Institute of Referendum should be respected. If not otherwise, history teaches us that this institute has sometimes been much more valuable than it is today. For example, we can go to Greek history. Secondly, what must be said is that the referendum procedure has begun — why? Because there was no agreement with the social partners. Very simple! It is entirely justified if someone does not agree with the social partners to raise the referendum issue. That's where people decided. The Slovenian Democratic Party was not the initiator of this referendum; it supported the referendum clearly and loudly and also said why. Thus, there is a need to be a little more convincing, consistent and precise in these matters. I do not claim and have never claimed that this law has been passed without any error, that no injustice has occurred to anyone, and if so, it will also be corrected. This has also been highlighted on several occasions, as a result of which some big words are not needed, of course much more must be taken action and much more must be done. Because the worst part is if a government doesn't take action. I don't know if the previous government has taken any essential measures in the last nine months to bring about economic development or to get out of the crisis faster. When we talk about individual perceptions of poverty – no, it is not just an individual perception of poverty, it is also a social perception of poverty, and sometimes you have very precise data on how many people live below the poverty threshold. But today we are not talking about these pensions, today we are talking about pensions worth more than €622, which are also worth more than a thousand euros, which are also worth more than a thousand 500 euros. Here you need to be solidarity and it has nothing to do with any individual accounts or anything. However, the fundamental problem in this country, which we will not solve today, is how to ensure that pensioners receive benefits, given that the relationship between those who work and those who enjoy pensions is getting worse. For their benefit, we need to think about this. It is difficult to work on individual postulates, as if something was cemented for all ages and ages. That's not how it works. Things change. If we weren't in a crisis today, we probably wouldn't be talking about it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u185	Thank you. When we received the ZUJF, when we were preparing the ZUJF, we went into this with a very clear purpose to reduce the budget deficit. This was an urgent matter to be done. For many years, the country has lived in a high budget deficit, started to increase public debt too quickly, too critical, and this had to be stopped. This is the goal of which, I think, there can be no dilemma. At that time, however, we also said that, in view of this objective, we would not be confused about what these measures might mean to specific individuals who are prejudiced to their rights. That is why we said that the principle that measures should be balanced is that they reach out to all social groups roughly evenly and that they must be fair. And most of all, ZUJF followed this principle. Not here with pensions. Here it is very clear to admit that some of the interventions were too severe, too grave, that there were also 20%, 25%, and that is not right. The story, which Mr Kavtičnik said, a bit of abusing the rules of procedure, is indeed criminal. I find it difficult to agree that someone will sacrifice 20, 25, 30% of their pension to balance public finances. It's not working. And that's gonna have to be fixed. While not in such a way as to completely destroy the savings effect of the ZUJF, it will be necessary to find some medium variant, which is primarily the responsibility of the coalition, or firstly, the government, in particular the Minister of Labour, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, must find a solution to these problems, and we have said that we should give time by September. The citizens' list awaits until September, if there is no solution by then, we, as a parliamentary group, will table a bill, donkeys in cooperation with others, including the opposition ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Schuline.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u187	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! In all of today's debate at this point, and also at some others, it seems to me that some people do not understand what kind of country we are living in or what situation we are in and that it was absolutely necessary for us to accept the ZUJF. It is also somehow true that the ZUJF took something for each of us, but if we wanted to cut costs by €800 million, then this was also necessary. Nevertheless, as we know, we will have to commit to one billion euros this year. I am also of the opinion that the correction of the injustices that have taken place is necessary and that they are also going in the direction of rescue and elimination, which will happen in the autumn. At the same time, we forget that the measures we have taken in the ZUJF have been agreed with the social partners and the Economic Council. It is true, however, that the correction of those mistakes that have occurred with the ZUJF is necessary and that there is probably no one in this hall who thinks otherwise. When I listen to some, it seems to me that we would not change anything, but at the same time we would like to have less debt, better economic conditions, better salaries and more pensions and more. But it's not working. Without the changes in the system we have, I hope everyone knows that this is not going to work. As a country, we are also lagging behind because of a system that is bureaucratic, which is not marketed and is not economical. The Minister of Finance is constantly asking whether Slovenia will apply for international financial assistance. Now I ask, is it really easier or is it somehow easier to limit ourselves to agree in our own country how we will save, how we will change some systems. Nor should we forget that our country's assistance from Europe is not free, nor will it be that international assistance, if it occurs, but I hope not. For you must also accept certain programmes and commitments before you receive assistance from the European Union, and the country's credit rating in doing so is falling dramatically. There's something else I'm worried about. As it may seem, some of you are unaware of the importance of the fiscal rule. For if it is not entered into the Constitution, we will not receive loans from abroad or for these regular needs that we have and for which we ourselves are not able to create enough to cover everything. So, until we know all this and understand it, then we really don't know which way we really want our country to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know and I believe that it is very difficult for individuals and very difficult for families when a country cuts part of it into a family or individual budget. I sincerely feel for all those who have been affected by the Public Finance Balance Act. That is what I thought about when we adopted this law. The principle in the New Slovenia Group is that public finances must be stabilised. We say that stabilisation is essential for economic growth, but of course growth is also essential for stabilisation. These things are probably all very well understood, extremely organically connected. Even before the coalition agreement was signed, I had the honour to work with Dr Šuštaršič on behalf of Members of New Slovenia, which I greatly appreciate. When we were working on the framework for the rebalancing of the RS budget and when we came to the result, or our task, that on the expenditure side we should reduce the total amount by around 800 million euros. We have failed in full with the Public Finance Balance Act, but we have managed to reach consensus with at least most of the social partners. With the adaptation of the Public Finance Balance Act, I have no problems, but I myself have suggested that we take one, not too long, short, but an optimally observed period, let's say it will be three months, and then we do a thorough analysis. Some analyses already exist and we can see that some people have actually been affected by their injustices, but it's not general, it's for some people. I was alone with my first employer in charge of calculating wages. During that period, I worked with my colleagues to calculate monthly wages, about 800 thousand, and I was employed by a relatively large corporation. It was a great responsibility and a lot of bright nights when we were counting wages. What do I want to point to? I would like to point out that, I say, there may have been some mistakes when accountants in the text of the law were making software algorithms and there may have been errors in understanding the legal provisions. This is the task, for example, of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and SPIZ, let's say they check these algorithms and see if they are actually consistent with the law. I also expect the Minister of Finance to come up with data during this observed period, where the financial effects of the Public Finance Balance Act will also be demonstrated. As we say, and I would like to report this to the Slovenian public, we will bring it to the National Assembly on the basis of analysis and all of us together, 90 of us, will adapt to change the law in those provisions that some individuals have hurt families according to the principle of unfair laws. I don't have a problem with that; I have a problem with that because the state money is empty, ladies and gentlemen! No one talks about this today, and neither will I, because I am saving; I am saving in words that might be sharp and very unpleasant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. No one has said today that pensioners are willing to contribute to this bailout. No doubt about it, they said it publicly, but this law for some pensioners is actually lustration and say what you want, you're against opening up ideological themes, but you open them every day. You started fighting. My colleague Tonin, who is not here now, but he has discussed earlier, might otherwise, if we did not win the partisans and allies, speak Italian here. Karl Erjavec, the great protector of pensioners, says that Mira Cerar, the Olympics, needs to be looked at, but maybe he has a good asset because he was a lawyer, and then we can make him a pension. It's a disaster! Or Karl Erjavec says that it is necessary to examine who was in the guest but who was not. Yes, leave them alone for the few years they have before them to live in peace! They too are willing to contribute to the austerity measures. Why don't you decide, I don't know, linearly, except for the lowest, to take 3%, 4%, 5% of your pension? Nobody would say anything. I agree with my colleague Shirtzl, who said, "There have been referendums, people have decided so," but I do not agree that the SDS has not worked very hard here. Your colleagues, who are now ministers, if you look at the magnetograms, will stand up your hair, because you will have to bring these marriages to life now. And that's my pleasure, and I'll help you. But also unions, including Semolič and others, organized the throwing of stones into parliament: as bad as possible, the better! And now we're on it. I'm sure with some smart marriage you can fix it very quickly, fix it together, reach across, take something away from everyone, and not look at who was where and where he added it to. You know how many people in Goriška have Italian pensions. And this country admits, they paid into that fund, they suffered in the Italian army under duress and so on, and Italy does not take that away from them. And we will prevent those of us who have worked in some companies after Yugoslavia from getting a pension from this fund. People who are old people who have built this home run — if you know what it is — who have built new factories. I know about the furniture, when they built the building, there went a voice around who had hammers, saws, and something else to come work at the furniture and created a furniture that was a concept in Europe. That's the way it was. And these people are now going to be taking some of the pensions that I think they belong to without further ado. It's worth saving, yeah! There's a lot of reserves still in this country that wouldn't hurt if we reached for them. Not lastly corrected those laws that were passed just before the elections of the previous government, which gave incredible ratings. Let us tax the rich today, tax them — don't raise your hand for it! We tax those who have hidden money in tax havens, and we tax those who have assets like me, the house, and I don't know what's not worth a million euros; we know who has that kind of money. Do it! My colleague Irgle, I know you don't agree. The rich have to be squeezed behind their necks and taken a little. Okay? Thank you. If you don't mind, we'll have coffee. Bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much for this conclusion. Now it's Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u193	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We've done a lot of bad things with ZUJF. In Positive Slovenia we have warned, and also the opposition has warned, of the rush and when they are hurrying, mistakes can be made and mistakes are made here, obviously, in various areas. Now we are talking about 26 thousand 341 pensioners who have been wronged. As many as there are of these pensioners, there are so many personal stories. Some are very sad. In this way we have trampled on their courageous actions, and we have trampled on their excelling achievements. Not because of the money we took from them, especially because of the actions you did. It's a message. I tell you, when I spoke to individuals, they weren't angry, but they were sad and disappointed. And that can't be fixed by making a fix now and returning the money. You know, by the time you put a nail in the wood and flush it out, there's a hole. When you say an evil word, when you do an act, it remains hurtful; and it hurts. This cannot be rectified by a new solution, but there is something we can do: let all who live in our country know that when we make a mistake, we are prepared to correct this mistake in the National Assembly. The achievements of our top athletes – a colleague mentioned Mir Cerar. You know, he's gonna survive, he's not a problem, but it hurts that his work and his efforts were somehow put to nothing by this act. And what is the direction for other top athletes, for other young people? So it's not a problem, you're just trying, but it's worth nothing. The case I told you before, my cousin also received a medal for bravery, but he did not go to the presidency or to the president because the story was over for him and there were many stories for him. And that's not right. These are such things, these are such injustices that we can only eliminate by acting to confess, admit that you have made a mistake. Look, Comrade Shirtzelj was talking about solidarity. Yeah, I agree. I'm in for solidarity right now. And everyone. And let the Prime Minister be solidarity. He drove from Rhodes with his private plane for 20,000 euros in this crisis. We still don't know where that came from. Is that solidarity? Is that a good thing? Is this the real message for our people who received their pensions to reduce their pensions, etc.? No, we don't! Nothing's been cleared and there's no need, but 20 grand is some money. Comrade Virant said he was willing to cooperate, and the list is ready to cooperate, and in September he will also make his own law to eliminate these injustices. Why? Let them join us now! Let them join, for the law is in the first reading. Let him now join in if this purpose is really what he said it would be, and with their contribution they contribute to make this law as it must be. So you are invited, join us and eliminate these injustices, which of course we will not be able to undo, because they have already been done, but it is certainly clear to our people that if we make a mistake in the National Assembly, we are willing to acknowledge and remedy this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. You want a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I propose that we take advantage of these 12 minutes and open another round to report to the debaters, because you yourself have introduced this practice and I think that these 12 minutes will not, I would say, make it impossible for the normal part of today's session. I therefore propose that we make use of this time and 100 % as envisaged for this agenda item, since we have already saved almost a day or two.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, but this time I'll make a different decision. Otherwise, as I've decided before, you'll get another procedural one. I know that this is my decision, and I also somehow owe it to explain why the decision last time was different. I was explained that both the grammatical interpretation of Article 71 and the parliamentary practice so far were such that only one time-sharing cycle was allowed. That is why I will take this determination forward and take this parliamentary practice into account. Now, first of all, Mr Bevk has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u197	I am also a cosigner of this law, and I suggest you give me your word as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u198	The same applies to you as a proposaler, to the government, to anyone in this Chamber; when the possibility was to apply in the time-sharing framework, you had the opportunity to apply. I'm staying on to my decision. Mag. Shirtzel, you've also had procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u199	What I will say with the first sentence is that my procedural proposal is to speak in the context of a point in the National Assembly and not interfere with other matters which are not the subject of the agenda item in the debate itself. For it is not right, it is not fair, nor is it simply that the relationship between a father and a son is mentioned in the law on the balance of public finances. If you are saying what a father has done for his son, then this is a particularly different matter and has nothing to do with the Public Finance Balance Act. Probably any father would pay for a ride for his child if it was a matter of life or death or even if the child was not harmed. For this reason, Mr Kavtičnik, I really ask that if you are already giving the numbers, please provide them correctly. You gave an incorrect number, misleading number, and not entering personal relations into this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. This time we had twice the abuse of desire for procedural explanation, so I also let you finish this time, or I ask everyone to stick to the rules of procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before that, I'm sorry. The notification that we will decide whether a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration in accordance with the meeting's timing today in the context of the votes. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive motion for a bill to supplement the Social Security Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Patricia Chular, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We are proposing a new Law on Social Protection in its 98th Article. Currently, this article provides that investments in social security institutions are financed exclusively from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that the proposed amendment adds an article to allow social protection institutions to obtain investment funds independently in the financial market. This means that, in fact, public institutions acting as social security institutions can rent loans on their own for investments. What do we want to do with this bill? We would like to make it possible: firstly, to make investments that social security institutions can make with the help of European funds, namely the Cohesion Fund, with a view to energy recovery of existing homes. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already completed an invitation to tender of 20 million and, by amending this part of the law, we allow institutions, those who are beneficiaries of these funds, so that they can rent their own credit for their own participation in the implementation of the investment. Secondly, we also allow these institutions to rent loans for those investments that they decide for themselves or for which they themselves find that they will improve their accommodation conditions for their own or their own users. In the Committee's debate, the issue of the price itself was raised so that, in fact, by allowing the borrowing of credits from institutions, we could indirectly increase the price in that part of the loan of the institution. Here I would like to point out that the Ministry or the Ministry is responsible for designing the price alone, for agreeing on the price. However, the decision whether or not the institution is going to invest is on the side of the world of the institution, which will first decide whether a certain investment improves the conditions, whether it is necessary and, consequently, whether this investment would contribute to such an increase in the price that it may not be acceptable for their residents. For the purpose of borrowing credits alone, the proposals of individual institutions must also be addressed by our opinion-giving department and by the Ministry of Finance, which then, in a step or a last step, also gives consent to the investment. Last but not least, this proposal also makes it possible to make investments, not only by using the European funds available for this purpose, but also by making investments with which, as has been said so far, we are opening up opportunities for certain works: investment works, construction works and consequently strengthening the economic sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Alenka Jeraj to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 9th emergency session. Seven. 2012 as a parent labour body, considered the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Protection Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. Accordingly, the Committee has examined the law on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the proposer, Patricia Chular, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service Valentina Marolt participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The present text has made comments to Article 1 where it has pointed out that, since the proposed supplement governs the provision of investment funds differently, the exceptionality of the scheme in Article 98 must be defined more clearly. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to Article 1 of the draft law have been tabled by SDS, the National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and Nova Slovenija. The representative of the applicant stated in the recital that the amendment of the law only covers the amendment of one article which allows social welfare institutions to obtain funds for investments in the financial market, enabling public welfare institutions to maintain, restore and expand their infrastructure for the implementation of institutional protection. It stressed that all public institutions that carry out institutional protection for older persons and adults with special needs should be able to meet the conditions under minimum technical and regulatory standards for the provision of minimum technical services by 2012, with the essential energy savings of facilities and the achievement of appropriate standards to improve the conditions for the stay of guards. The proposed change will not increase the burden of the State, as the change represents only the possibility of borrowing credits from public institutions for investment in public institutions' infrastructure. She stressed that the investment country would also be subject to supervision following the proposed amendment, as both the prior consent of the Ministry of Finance and the consent of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, without which it would not be possible to rent a loan from a public institution. At the time of her presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendment tabled summarises the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. In the debate, members of the Committee pointed out that loans from public institutions were also transferred to public service providers, with the supply day price increasing to a maximum of 2.6 euros per day, which is not followed by an increase in pensions. It was also pointed out that the capacity of public institutions to provide care for the elderly in relation to the European standard is above average and there is a lack of development of other alternative care for the elderly. It was further stressed that conditions should be provided to enable investment and thus improve the living conditions of the suppliers, with the main thing being that each individual public institution also operates well and economically. The representative further explained that the proposed amendment sought to enable the public authorities to invest in energy recovery, with a large amount of funding available from the European Cohesion Funds. It also stressed that the Ministry responsible for work and social affairs had foreseen the highest possible increase in the supply day price of 2.6 euros, which is not the rule, since the possible increase in the supply day prices would depend heavily on the investment and management of an individual institution. In doing so, she stressed that a large part of public institutions wanted to provide themselves with 15% of their own funds through credits to run for European Cohesion Funds. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 of the Social Protection Act. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law which includes the adoption of the amendment is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam President-in-Office and Madam Secretary-General! In Novi Slovenija we welcome the proposed amendment to the Social Protection Act, as the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs estimates that a good half of the social welfare institutions will allow them to make urgent investments in infrastructure. Many buildings in these institutions are in poor condition when they urgently need energy recovery, adaptation to standards and improvement of the quality of living and life, or because of the health inspection decision they must urgently restore the kitchens. The current law provides that investments in social security institutions are financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of the economic crisis, investment in public institutions has decreased significantly in recent years. However, such a situation is not expected to improve in the near future. Investments in these institutions will, on the one hand, improve the living conditions of the tenants and the conditions for the provision of services. On the other hand, Slovenian companies will be able to obtain work in the field of construction and services, which will certainly have a positive impact on job conservation or growth. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems very important to us that the investment country will also be monitored after the proposed amendment, as the amendment preserves both the previous consent of the Ministry of Finance and the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, without which it is not possible to rent a loan from the public institution. Due to the many positive effects of the proposed amendment to the Social Protection Act, we will only support this in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u207	Have a nice hello again! Under the current legislation, funds for investments in public institutions operating in the field of social protection can be provided mainly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. By means of the proposed solution, those operators that acquire part of their activities by direct payments to users may acquire investment funds on financial markets, thereby ensuring the maintenance, renewal and expansion of their infrastructure. In accordance with the proposal for a law, all operators in charge of the financial market will have to obtain an appropriate opinion from the Ministry of Finance and the consent of the Ministry of Finance. In the SDS Group, we are aware that the country is obliged to take care of all categories of citizens; in this case, or in the case of the home of older citizens for the category of older citizens. We estimate that it is necessary for institutions to be able to rent credit, since it is only by doing so that they can run for European funds and not only wait for the Ministry's resources, which we know are always too few. Investment and investment in energy renovation of buildings reduces costs over a long period of time, resulting in a cheaper day of care, and it is most important that investment improves the standard in homes, as suppliers deserve suitable facilities and adequate care. We will support this amendment of the Social Protection Act in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u209	Hello again! Under the Social Protection Act, the State is obliged to ensure and develop the functioning of social protection institutions. In view of the austerity measures taken by the Government to balance public finances and budgets, there is also a reduction in public investment. On the basis of the change proposed by the Government following an urgent procedure, public institutions in the field of institutional protection in infrastructure maintenance will have to find themselves to a greater extent, as the State will only maintain supervision of investments in nursing homes and other social security institutions, the means to modernise the social security network and improve the quality of institutional protection for a while. We can also monitor this from the supplemental material. Thus, the drafter of the law found, in the assessment of the situation, that, I quote, "because of the economic crisis, the funds for investment in public institutions have decreased significantly in recent years and it is realistic that such a situation will not be improved in the near future." There is nothing wrong with allowing the State, through a proposal to supplement public institutions, to borrow loans for investment in public institutions' infrastructure and the possibility of finding alternative sources of funding. But not all gold is sacred. It is important to be aware that this will burden the day of care. Although this can also bring about rationalisation and a reduction in the price of the service, we must be aware, on the other hand, that the complete transfer of this burden to the day of care could mean up to 15% price increases in the homes of older citizens. It is said that the burden can be passed on to users to a large extent. I drew attention to this at the meeting itself, because we must be aware that we have also been confirmed several times in the Public Finance Balance Act, when we passed most of the burden on supplementary health insurance, so that the burden will not be passed on to the insurers. It turns out that this is not true, so I am obliged to warn you today at this point that these burdens can become very difficult for users. As this story will not end here, as it will also continue to modernise in the homes of pensioners, which is of course absolutely necessary, it must be borne in mind that we will have to be very careful when effectively overseeing the implementation of this measure. The fact is that the Government should address such issues in a comprehensive way, which would redefine the implementation of social protection activities in our country, but not repeatedly propose partial interventions justified by urgent procedures. Social Democrats will not object to the proposal to supplement the Social Protection Act, although we do not agree to transfer the country's financial obligations to institutional protection service users. It is for this reason that we will closely monitor that changes in legislation under the emergency procedure also in the social field will not lead to the privatisation of public services step by step. Providing publicly accessible social services for all groups of citizens and residents of our country, including the most vulnerable, is one of the foundations of the social state that we must preserve, regardless of austerity measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mag. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u211	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleague, colleague, distinguished secretary! The amendment of the Social Protection Act includes an amendment to only one article which allows social security institutions to acquire funds for investments in the financial market, thereby allowing the maintenance, renewal and expansion of the infrastructure for the implementation of institutional protection. The adoption of this Article will enable public institutions to obtain funds quickly and to draw on European funds more easily. The non-acceptance would mean that public institutions would not be able to obtain funds from the European Union for this purpose, as the financial perspective is running out and would therefore have severely remediable consequences for the functioning of the country. In the area of social security institutions, it is urgent to ensure the possibility of lending public institutions quickly, which will not be possible without amending this law. In this way, institutions will be able to restore and expand their capacities without the funds being provided by the founder and indirectly by all taxpayers. The bill is therefore financially neutral from the point of view of the State budget and does not represent any burden for the country. The State will only monitor investments on the proposed amendment through the prior agreement of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. The amendment of the law indirectly also makes it possible to develop the economy, as economic operators in the area of construction activities will gain work and economic growth will increase. In view of the urgency and in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, the Members of the National Gazette will support the proposal of the law. Havela.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I remember the time when we adopted a national programme in the National Assembly, after home, to build homes for the elderly, where we wrote it down at the end of the last century, that the goal was to cover 5% of the population over 65 years of age. This objective, which was then ambitious, has already been achieved in recent years, but it is true that this coverage is not uniform across the country, that in some areas this coverage is too weak, such as the Ljubljana area, Primorska, as far as I know, and in some areas this coverage even exceeds demand. This law is now only one part of that that allows effectively those institutions that have the means to do so, which have the needs and opportunities to benefit from other ways of investing, to benefit European and state resources for the energy rehabilitation of buildings and so on and so on. Many institutions look forward to this law, and it has certainly also been created on the initiative of institutions in Slovenia, which is why I think that this law is good and that it should also be seen from this point of view. Of course, in all possible investments and the use of credits and the use of grants, it will also be decided by the saints of the institutions and so on, so that we do not see any serious fears about such a way of investing in homes in the sending group. That is why we will also support this minor amendment of the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u214	Thank you very much. There is also the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u215	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! The proposed addition to the Social Protection Act introduces the possibility of obtaining funds for investments in the financial market, allowing public welfare institutions to maintain, restore and expand the infrastructure for the implementation of institutional protection. Since the European Union's calls for self-sustainment by public institutions to draw on European funds, it is, of course, necessary to amend the law. This law seeks to enable the indebtedness of social security institutions with a view to investing in the maintenance, rehabilitation and expansion of home infrastructure. As a result, this means improving the living conditions of users and the conditions for the provision of home care services, which clearly leads to improving existing standards. A positive salary will also be a re-incentive to construction and other service activities, since at least new jobs would be maintained or even opened. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the quality of institutional protection of older persons needs to be improved and the financial consequences of this law are disturbing. Given that the financial aspect of crediting social security institutions poses a risk to the burden of credit on the user, some Members or Members of our parliamentary group are skeptical about supporting this law and therefore we do not have a uniform opinion in the group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, and since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the bill will be made within 1 hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and inform you that this suspended 16th meeting of the assembly will be resumed in 1 hour or at 3:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u217	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is 3:30, as agreed, that we continue the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We will vote on the proposals for decisions. Mr Bevk first spoke in favour of a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! During my break, I was horrified to notice that the New Ljubljana Bank ATM was taken away from us from the National Assembly. The argument is that Nova Ljubljanska Banka has too much cost with its protection and is not profitable. Today there are over 500 people in the National Assembly. Even when the holidays are shorter, we do not have time to go outside the house, so I call on the leadership of the National Assembly to ensure that the ATM is returned to the premises of the National Assembly immediately. In the case of 6.6 billion claims, this cost for NLB is a drop into the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. But if this was a procedural proposal tied to today's session, fine. [[...]] We're continuing our adjourned session. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We continue to end the 13th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the only amendment tabled that we will make on the basis of the review of 18. Seven. 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 8. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since we adopted the amendment in the second reading, I ask qualified candidates whether they want to announce the amendment. If not, I note that no amendments have been tabled and we can move on to a full vote on the bill. I also did not receive any notice from the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that there would be any non-compliance, so we can vote. There are 59 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue to end the 14th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Prevention of Late Payments by Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 58 present, in favour of 49 votes against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction of Objects by Emergency Procedure. We're moving to third reading. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, so that we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The 59 Members and Members present voted 48 against 9. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Spatial Planning Act. We'll proceed with the second reading. We have an amendment. We will therefore decide on the amendment tabled on the basis of the review of 18. Seven. 2012. This is an amendment to the 29th Article of the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. 58 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Since the second reading of the amendment has not been adopted, we are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law, to a decision. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any non-compliance due to the amendments adopted on the home working body and we can vote on the proposal of the law as a whole. We're voting. The 59 Members and Members present voted 48 against 9. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space. We're moving to third reading. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 8. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. We've finished this point, too. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection by Emergency Procedure, the third is under consideration. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The 59 Members and Members present voted 49 against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. The point is closed. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Water Act by emergency procedure. We'll proceed with the second reading. We will vote on the amendments, based on the review of the amendments tabled of 18. Seven. 2012. First, a decision on the amendment of Article 12 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 17. We're voting. 58 Members and Members present, 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 26a. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 27. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. This concludes the second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, we have adopted amendments, so I ask qualified applicants if they want to announce any amendments. If not, then we can move on to the third hearing, which is to decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 9. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Law. We're moving to third reading. The amendments were not adopted in the second reading of the amended proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. Ended agenda item 9, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products, third consideration. In the second reading, the amendments were not adopted so that we can move on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, which is the decision on the amendments that we will make on the basis of the review that has been prepared today. First, a decision on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 15 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. We're moving to third reading. Qualified candidates might want to table amendments? No, no, no. There are no amendments, nor are there any inconsistencies and we can decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. Dot's closed. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, there were no amendments and we can move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Agenda item 18 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Promoting the Development of Tourism, Reduced Procedure We'll proceed with the second reading. We have an amendment. The decision will be made on the basis of the review you received today. We therefore decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. This concludes the second reading. Would you like to submit an amendment to this article in the third reading? No, no, no. I have not been informed of any non-compliance, either, so that we can move on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the law has been passed. The point is closed. And we are already at the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship following a reduced procedure, the third is being considered. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The law is adopted and the point is closed. We move on to agenda item 2 which is to be considered Proposal for the initiation of a procedure for the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Group of Members of 17 April 2012, EPA 267/6, to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law. I don't think you need to be particularly reminded that this is a proposal for a constitutional amendment on the abolition of the State Council. The Constitutional Commission has not reached the required majority for this decision, so that the Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt this decision. I must remind you that, under Article 168(2) of the Constitution, this decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We vote on the motion to initiate the procedure [[...]] Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I suggest you take five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u221	Good. I'm adjourning the session. You can tell me why, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u222	It's a dedication.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u223	It's a dedication. You can do that. We'll pick it up at 15.53.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u224	Given the fact that the brief consultation has been concluded [[...]] Mag. Tonin, we have to wait five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u225	He's not five minutes away, and not all of us are present if we can wait two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u226	Good. So, we're on at 15.53.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u227	Before we proceed, just two explanations. First, to avoid any doubt. There have been some doubts in the professional services, as well as among Members about whether a parliamentary group that obstructs a point can then end this obstruction in the vote. My opinion is, "Yes." So, as there is a right to leave, there is a right to return. I just want to be clear about everything. Second thing. We will now vote on the proposal for a decision to continue the process. So we are voting on a proposal for a positive decision, we are not voting on a proposal for a negative decision. Most of the Constitutional Commission suggests that we do not support this decision. So whoever wants the procedure to abolish the Council of State forwards is voting in favour. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly adopts the proposal of a group of Members to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 37. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the necessary two-thirds majority of those present have not been reached, so that the decision has not been adopted and in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure, this procedure is concluded and cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate, nor is it possible to deal with the content of the same proposal in the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition by Emergency Procedure. We're moving to third reading. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that the proposal for a law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act by Emergency Procedure, the third is Decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. The point is closed. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Mining Act by an urgent procedure, the third reading Decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. The point is closed. We are at the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules by Short Procedure, the third discussed. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term loan liabilities of €440 million, leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the replacement block project 6 power 600 MW at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies and we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a guarantee act of TES. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 20. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Offences under Short Procedure, the third is We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. The point is closed. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Public Finance Balance Act is suitable for further consideration. Before the vote, I saw that there was some interest in the explanation of vote. Who, on behalf of the parliamentary group, wants to explain their vote? Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, then Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of Positive Slovenia and so on. Here you go, Dr. Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Colleagues and fellow Members! In the introductory address, I have tried to give you at least five legal arguments why we must support the law or the amendment of Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances; legal arguments that have a constitutional weight. I didn't make them up. I took it from experts. As colleague Popotova said, we do not have to wait for the opinion of the Constitutional Court, our task, our Members' task is to reflect on the implementation of the basic act in our country. So I ask you, and I call you, step in front of the mirror and consider the weight of your decision. Support the law. If we completely disagree on it, we will coordinate it further. This is just the first time. I'm inviting you to actually come to this point together. The fact is that you yourself have found that the law is not all right or that this article is not all right. I'd like to warn you about something else. Human dignity, which is the fundamental legal and ethical and constitutional principle of many people, has been violated. It's a crime. Do we have to go this way?Oh, my God! But we're looking into what's not right. And what she would say in the end. At today's meeting, we are again deciding on matters related to the decisions taken at the referendum. In one marriage, we postponed our decision, not in this law. That's all that's breaking the Constitution. Therefore, I hope that this time we will be able to take courage and make a decision that will allow the law to continue its course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u229	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Positive Slovenia is also proposing the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. Why? Because, as we have already identified in the debate at the meeting in fact in all the parliamentary groups, the basic government law on the balance of public finances, which was adopted in May, has resulted in injustice. If you want, these are the culprits, specifically, when we're talking about pensioners, over 23,000. It is not right for us in our country to agree to divisions, to those pensioners who are desirable, and to those who are not desired. It is not right to delete the rights of pensioners up to a quarter of their monthly income. It is wrong to talk today about what is ideologically acceptable and what is not ideologically acceptable. It is not right to try to redefine Slovenian history with individual, partial measures in some respects. In the debate, I mentioned that 23 thousand 341 pensioners were affected – 26 thousand 341, I apologize. That is why we have decided to introduce a new law that corrects injustices; the injustices caused by this national assembly. To plead today with the Constitutional Court, which, if it decides to do so, will be irresponsible by the legislator if all pensioners who have been wronged complain to the Constitutional Court. We have a chance to fix what we've done wrong. And you don't have to point your finger at whoever's responsible. I say that today we have the opportunity to take responsibility for all of us to correct our mistakes. I'm going to appeal again, including on the National List. The president said he would wait until autumn for the Government to draft its proposal for a law to remedy the injustices committed, otherwise his parliamentary group would table a proposal for a law. President, no! Today's your day! The new law is on the table, don't wait, the wrongs have been done! The same appeal goes to the Members of the DeSUS Group, they are the first to boast about the Slovenian pensioners. Today, we all have the opportunity to correct the injustices that have been committed. If you want, of course, you can fix, add, change the law, so I say not to reject it at first reading. We will support the Group of Messengers [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will oppose and oppose the law going forward. We agree that the ZUJF went into interference with the rights acquired, as did the law on the end of last year to abolish state pensions, and they were also deprived of the rights acquired, and they would need an advocate. When I was doing a response and looking for people and people asked me to help, there was this show on TV, and the journalist asked me to find someone to say to the camera -- because of the shame and shame these people didn't even want to perform publicly because of the EUR 189 they took. Among them were the most rural women who suffered during the war and who gave through the postwar mandatory broadcast, when they were taking pregnant pigs so that the yoke of the gentleman could be greased; they had nothing for their children themselves. That's why I'm surprised by the distinction, the acceptance of ours and yours. You know, we're all on the same page. I also say that this law does not make any difference and that this law, the ZUJF, is solidarity and takes on those who have more. There are 344 thousand pensioners who have less than €600 a month's pension, let's imagine that. I agree, however, that SPIZ should give them – and I hope that they too will have decisions as soon as possible. I will tell another story from 10 years ago when we received a farmer’s call that we should not give milk without every decision – we could not complain anywhere! At that time, as president of the union, I also asked legal experts to help us. No one has helped us, nor has the guardian of human rights. Nothing. Again or because we were farmers! We will not support the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u233	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to inform you, colleagues and colleagues, and the Slovenian public that we have no problems in the New Slovenia Group with the adaptation of the Public Finance Balance Act, but our approach is slightly different. We want to take the observed period, not too long. This area, with which we have intervened in the family budgets and individual budgets, is extremely sensitive, so we want to review it, analyse it during this observed period and then bring about adaptation, i.e. the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act to the National Assembly. I now urge you all to work together in this constructive way. Why we, or why the Government brought the Public Finance Balance Act to the National Assembly, is it clear to everyone. The Treasury is empty and we need to stabilise the public finances. Stability is essential for growth, and growth is also essential for stabilising public finances. We in the New Slovenia Group reject this law, this amendment to the Public Finance Balance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u235	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Your Honor! When we adopted the Public Finance Balance Act, we were aware that mistakes could happen and we made that clear. We accepted it quickly, we accepted it in, if you want, two or three nights, including on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Why? Because this was a key issue for the financial existence of the State. There may have been mistakes, and if there have been mistakes, we will correct them. We will correct them in order to determine whether a mistake has occurred elsewhere, or whether it has happened with any other group of citizens and citizens, and we will correct the mistakes for all. In doing so, we will take into account solidarity and solidarity criteria, in particular by correcting mistakes first in those who have the least and then in those who have more. Today we are talking about a group of citizens and citizens, who also have something more on the basis of the data of the bill-makers; I am not saying what is more, nor can I talk about whether this is too much – I agree that we can all have too little, we just have to do more to have more. This means that we must create such conditions that the pension register will have more money on the basis of paid contributions. Nevertheless, today — or we are talking about people where the main criterion was that contributions were not paid. I agree. It could have been someone's fault. This guilt will be repaid to him. Given that we are proposing measures on the basis of analyses in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will analyse the full effects of the Public Finance Balance Act and propose changes within the shortest possible time frame, due to the Government's analysis of September. This time, given that there is only one group, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u237	More explanations for the voice in its own name, individually. I'm opening the application. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u238	Thank you, President. Nice greetings to all present! Of course, I will accept the amendment of this "crisis law" and support it. First of all, because everyone here finds that he has mistakes, and then I don't know why you don't accept our hand to fix these mistakes together. The second reason why I will support the change of the so-called crisis law is that it is also an opportunity to eliminate the ugly way of lustration you have gone. By the way, did you tell Giorgio Napolitan, the Italian President of the Italian Republic, who was in the National Assembly and who was ruling so gladly in his vicinity, that he would be a partisan and a communist in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u239	Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u240	Thank you. I will also uphold the law; contrary to many who said it was a mistake, I say it was not a mistake. These amendments to the ZUJF were not in the basic text, but we received them at night at two, three. We then deleted some things on the second day because the union response, such as the fact that a pension reform was introduced into this mine, was that there was no longer any possibility of military enforcement and a study. Some things were left in there. I myself was the first to use the term to discriminate or to introduce covert lustration. That's exactly what I think. Here today it has been said that we have some judgments of the Constitutional Court. We do, but these judgments, referred to by Mr President of the Committee on Finance, relate to the fact that representative unions have not filed constitutional complaints, not to the content. The Court did not rule on the content. The second point is that yesterday the court also adopted that it was not possible to take the rights granted on the basis of an individual decision only with notices or decisions, but with the same manner as they were given. Once again, it's not a mistake, and I think it's a good idea to know it and try to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u241	Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Today, the situation in Slovenia would be much more manageable if the opposition supported the reforms of the Pahor government in the previous term. Thus, the leader of the then opposition, Janez Janša, went to an early vote before the Super Referendum Sunday and announced to the world and the city that he had voted against all three laws and against the government, saying that Slovenia could do much more. He voted three times against reforms and once against the government. That this government can do much more, it is an indicator of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance and the intervention of 26,000 pensioners. It reduces the partisan and veteran pensions, the pensions of the fighters and activists of the Liberation Front who liberated our homeland. It reduces the standard of veterans of the 1991 war of independence for Slovenia and for many of the fighters it will not be a temporary but a permanent measure. You went after 80- and 90-year-old partisans, veterans of the self-serving war, deserving athletes and artists. However, this is not only a non-constitutional reduction in the highest pensions, but also a disproportionate reduction in the wage and other pensions, which are only slightly higher than €622, as they have also decreased by €100 or 13.85%. I will therefore vote in favour of a law that cures an unhygienic and incorrect solution in government law, which, at a symbolic level, lays down a tangible financial penalty for participating in a national liberation war and for winning the world anti-fascist coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u243	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Even in my own name. Excuse me. Sometimes I say, some thing is really messed up. Even in the National Assembly. Because someone was wronged, he asked me, but at the time I had no power to help him, was my man, or was close to me ideologically, and I don't know what line I'm going to play today, and I'm not going to help someone else today who's asking me to do the wrongs and fix them. It's overturned. We have caused guilt by the Public Finance Balance Act; those who voted for it, and others who were not strong enough, at least not to vote you. That is why we are warning you today and asking: there is a new bill on the balance of public finances on the table that corrects the error that has been made. I'm asking rhetorically whether this government's mistake is guilt or maybe guilt is the fault of this government. Either way, don't get carried away today, point your finger at someone else, the third, the Constitutional Court, to take responsibility for some inappropriate time, fall, September, maybe the second year. We have a chance today. I will absolutely support the law at first reading and allow it or try to enable it to proceed into the procedure and to correct the mistakes that have been made in this Parliament. However, I absolutely say that because I forgot to say earlier, in the introductions I gave in the presentation of the position of the parliamentary group that if the law does not receive sufficient support today, we will absolutely in Positive Slovenia join the gathering of support for constitutional review.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u245	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The proposal to amend the law, i.e. the ZUJF, at first reading means that this law can now be supported by all here. Why? We will, as the coalition Members have discussed, be able to supplement the law and correct it and see who else has been wronged by this law to put an end to it. History is a fact. We cannot change it and it is wrong for some to want to convert it. The struggle against fascism and Nazism was largely linked by the Slovenian people and led them to victory. Next led by the Slovenian nation to the victory of the self-sustaining war, veterans of the war for Slovenia, also led us to the victory of our top athletes, the Olympics and many times also important achievements by artists. There have been many others who have been plagued by this law now that we are living in peace and freedom, injustice. I propose to my coalition colleagues, this is a proposal to amend the law at first reading. Whoever is in favour of the pensioners, whoever, irrespective of ideological belief, will certainly vote in favour of the injustices committed by this law being abolished. That's why I'm going to support the proposal. I want to know who is the one who thinks differently, especially because there are many things we can do in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u247	Mr. Josie the Great.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I also support the proposal to amend the law. With the debate on the bill's proposal, some coalition MPs have also found that more than 23,000 pensioners have been wronged. You've also shown the will to change the law. Today you will prove how ready you are to support the opposition's proposals. Otherwise, the law is at first reading, so that fear of the appropriateness of the content of the correction is superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u249	Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u250	I will not support the law because it is not just and was made in haste. While many have lost state pensions in early 2012, without the €180 law on the exercise of rights from public funds, this law, which is advocated by the opposition and submitted by the opposition, favours those who have lost 300 euros in thousands of 500 euros of pensions. It's the budget part of the pension. It seems fair to me that we would advocate that this part of the budget pension be devoted to those who have lost 200 euros of state pension in the beginning of the year, because I am sure that those who have lost the budget portion of the pension today will also be able to survive with a thousand 200 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u251	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. I'm going to support the law because we're going to go to heaven alone with a screaming problem, the inequality of the pensioners. The proposal retains the first paragraph, which puts all pensioners in the same position, means that they do not comply by the end of the year. Everything that follows in this Article has no basis in any concrete criteria, only for ideological reasons. These are those who carried out their duties outside of Slovenia, to punish those who, according to the ruling coalition, were where their co-thinkers were not, it is said in the anti-Hitler coalition, and could also be listed. How strange! When our athletes achieve success, we all applaud them, we advocate excellence, and here we pose a problem if someone who has their creativity or their sports talent and opportunities to rise above the average, we do not allow that to be part of the pension. In all of this, proposals and coordination are under way to help current athletes regulate pensions. But the ones they already had, are we going to take it now? I do not think that all the injustices of this world will bring this bill out of the face of the earth. But he can eliminate the injustices of $26,000 and some more to the pensioners and pensioners. That's why it's right for me to press the "yes" button and let the law go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u253	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u254	Thank you very much. It is difficult for me to understand that, despite the fact that the Government recognises that certain changes will be necessary in the law, we do not, in fact, support the law at first reading. It doesn't prejudge any final solutions. It only prejudges that the matter goes forward and ultimately those with scissors and linen in their hands could eventually accept in the third reading what they would like. Well, that's hard to understand. Furthermore, I think it will be difficult to accept future wise solutions when we are unable to cooperate. Look, the change in constitution that happened is actually the first very cold shower. We have not been able to reach consensus in order to initiate the procedure. Furthermore, how can we expect, even though I am severe for the golden fiscal rule, to be voted down if any reasonable proposal is rejected? I think if you keep beating on someone's head, it's gonna be hard to reach into your hand. But I am asking you, on behalf of the citizens of Slovenia, to take your mind into our own hands. It's the first treatment, it doesn't prejudge anything! Let us also give a symbolic gesture of goodwill to those who are not currently in power and have, I am sure, good intentions. They have good intentions, just as the opposition had in its previous term. I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u255	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u256	Thank you. Of course, I am also on the side of national liberation fighters, on the side of the participants in the self-sustaining war, on the side of the workers who have been given a decree to work in other republics, I am on the side of the top athletes, the top artists and, of course, also on the side of the political prisoners who have been rehabilitated. I support the bill. However, it is not clear to me that with this infringement, in fact, the error that has been made and also recognised by the proposer that he does not have the power to correct and correct this error. You know, the wrongs that are done to someone always have to be settled and that's why the bill is always paid. If Mr Horvat spoke of this as a austerity measure that would bring a lot of money saved – there will be no! We will have to correct these injustices, and we will also have to pay retrogradely to all those who have done wrong what they are doing. I fully understand and fully expect the Constitutional Court to rule in their favour. I do not understand, however, that the proposaler insists so persistently that he would not have already done this at this stage and made corrections. It seems to me that all of this is a powerful slap in the face of the rule of law, so that we can't get enough power, so positive energy, that we can fix these injustices right from the start. After all, it is about citizens and citizens who have done something for this country. It's about them who have some reputation. And it's not just material damage, it's primarily moral damage that we've caused or caused. So, I expect and I want this injustice to be rectified immediately and healed so that trust in our country of law is as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u257	Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. Since the colleague had previously run out of time and had not fully explained the position of the Group of Members, let me say that the situation in public finances is such that certain measures in the area of economic development and also of reducing public spending must be taken. And this law is aimed at this second, in reducing spending. However, some errors, some injustices, some illogicalities to individual groups, individual categories, including pensioners, have also been adopted after relatively rapid adoption, although many coordinations have been carried out. For this reason, in the Group of Members and also personally, I support the Government's position to re-examine certain solutions and make appropriate changes. We expect that the Government will actually prepare these changes by September, and then we will consider an appropriate amendment to the law. Until then, we will vote against or I will vote against, even after all, because we do not introduce some false expectations – it is harder to step back than a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u259	Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u260	Your Honor! Of course, I will also support this law, which is proposed by our party together with the Social Democrats, especially because I know precisely that it is not a saving part of the law. It is clear to every child that if we wanted to save on the highest pensions, we would have cut all pensions, we would say that the limit is, say, a thousand euros; all that is over 1,000 euros is reduced by so much and so. No! No! Here it has very thoughtfully reached out to certain categories. However, in that hurry, when everyone who had anything with NOB and the former country wanted to be hurt, it was overlooked that some of the victims were also present. For example, people who conquered themselves after 1991 began writing history for half of this national assembly. History started writing a little earlier. For example, you say they didn't pay any contributions. A good part of these people paid contributions and had paid contributions for the whole working time. For those who did not have one, for example, I would suggest to my partisan father that it would be better if, instead of defending his homeland, he worked well in Ljubljana under the occupying army to pay him contributions, and today he would not have had a reduced pension to thank him for sacrificing his health and the life of his colleagues and friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u261	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of the law because I adhere to the principle that when someone is wronged, it must be abolished. Today we have the opportunity to eliminate injustice, not to one, but to 26 thousand 341 pensioners. But I wonder when individuals talk about the fact that certain contributions have not been paid — to whom, when and in what way should the partisans pay their contributions in order to be entitled to the pensions you took from them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u263	Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u264	Thank you. What saddens me is that you're actually doing the wrongs to your citizens that you don't like. In this mandate, you account for a segment by segment with everyone who is socially critical: from schoolchildren, culturers, trade unions, if you want, and also pensioners; under the cover of saving, you mirror people and those who are the worst of them, you walk into poverty. The blame hurts those to whom it is committed, not you, because the vast majority of us who sit in this hall have not lived a month of 620 or 900 euros a month for a long time. All of us get the sums that are four times those pensions, and at the top of that, we cut our salaries by 6%, their pensioners by 20% to 30%. That is why I understand that some of you do not understand what 150, 200 or 250 Euros were taken away from them – also those we have not talked about today, in addition to the partisans and all others, those who worked in Slovenian companies, but were sent to the countries of the former Yugoslavia. This is unacceptable, irresponsible, bad, unfair, has nothing to do with solidarity and is unjust. We have accepted all obligations under labour law by owning and concluding bilateral agreements with the countries of the former Yugoslavia and this country has become a country that respects human rights. This country is being dismantled at the point of its identity, the human rights you are violating from day to day.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u265	Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u266	I will vote in favour of a change for the reason that the current law has created an ideological distinction. Ideological Distinguishing — Why? Apparently, the current Central Committee has decided to select those 26,000 chosen to do anything with a five-legged star, and I cannot accept that. Another mathematical absurdity. A well-known case where the pensioner had EUR 623 in pension was taken away from him by the current law, amounting to EUR 80. His pal with 622 – nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u267	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u268	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of amending the Law on the Balancing of Public Finances, for diametrically opposite reasons, as presented by colleagues and colleagues of coalition types. It is simply a matter of correcting the mistakes that have been made here in the National Assembly, and it is only right that we follow a regular procedure. Maybe it's our fault that we didn't propose an emergency procedure, because you are only accustomed to emergency procedures in coalition types. Just this law, this amendment should be made by emergency procedure, and the one you have adopted by regular procedure, and perhaps not so many mistakes. In view of the arguments presented and the government measures that you have presented and adopted in the Public Finance Balance Act for the exit of the crisis, the government team is acting as rescue workers from the water that cannot swim. Unfortunately, there is no water in this pool that has already flowed through underground channels, into underground sewers, with the help of some politicians. It is not right to put accounts at the expense of missed mistakes and wrong decisions by politicians and greedy rich people, once greedy rich people who are no longer rich, on the account of the socially weak; on those who have retired and receive pensions for their deserved work. I don't think so. We are doing wrong to those who should be proud to have allowed us to continue living in the Republic of Slovenia. It's a mistake to make, and one day you'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u269	Thank you. I've seen my hands raised yet, so I'm gonna open another round of pleadings for reasons. You can sign up. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u270	26 thousand 341 people 26 means 526 buses, meaning train compositions of 20 wagons. These are the numbers of how many people were injured. I don't think that's a cough. I will therefore vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u271	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague said earlier that last year we had adopted a marriage when we abolished state pensions. There were 14,000 of them. We also have this country because we have had on this earth long centuries of the cursed Slovenian farmer who kept this land and for nothing in the world – he was also willing to give his own life before he was willing to spend Slovenian land. Some people today talk a lot about some ideological things, and I don't know what divisions. That's not even what this is about. By the way, if we look at that basic mathematics of calculation up to 100, there are also many questions as to whether there are still 7 thousand 500 — and if, then, I am absolutely in favour of pensioners — participants in the national liberation struggles that were in 1940 — if they were then 17 years old, would they be 85 years old today, or 7 thousand 500 people 85 years old? I don't believe it. But I believe there's a lot of people around here who just attach themselves to it. Well, privilege. We only talk about certain privileges, not ideological differences. And if you, colleagues and colleagues, forgot about 14,000 Slovenian farmers last year, mostly mothers, a woman who worked on Slovenian land until 75th to 80th years ago, we were working to create this country after 1945.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u273	Mr. Stanko Stepišnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u274	Thank you very much. This deficit, which has been emerging in recent years in the state budget, I do not think is due to the fact that they are pensioners. In fact, a big mistake has been made here, and I think that this mistake needs to be corrected because only more than 26,000 people are affected. I think something more needs to be done on the other hand in order to create economic growth or enough money to start covering this hole, so I'm going to vote in favour. For everything else, I think it's a waste of words, and we need to fix that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u275	Thank you. We will now vote on the proposal for a decision. Well, it's procedural to explain, because I think we're all clear. We are voting on the draft law at first reading, not on the adoption of the law, but on the law going to second reading, because it is a regular procedure because a group of Members requested a general discussion. We are now deciding whether the law is going to be treated differently. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure is therefore terminated. But I think we'll talk about the same subject early in the fall. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Social Protection by an urgent procedure, the third reading Whole vote on the bill. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u276	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! At the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly, I believe that the Head of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has announced obstruction in voting for the entire parliamentary group at all points of the agenda, except for two. Cooperation and obstruction. One of these points was the last point that we have now considered. The obstruction was also announced at the time of the agenda, when we voted on the continuation of the constitutional procedure concerning the State Council, and obstruction was also announced at the point when we voted on the guarantee law for TES. I regret to note that, despite the obstruction announced, some members of the Positive Slovenia voted on both agenda items without any of the parliamentary groups predicting a change in obstruction. Mr Kavtičnik voted against the announced obstruction with TES and 24 members of the Positive Slovenia Group on the 2nd agenda. I think such an act by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is unacceptable. The mere prediction of obstruction to all items of the agenda is unacceptable, since the second paragraph of Article 65 specifically commands that obstruction should be announced at each point of the agenda. I propose, Mr President, that you warn the Group of Members that if it obstructs, obstructs and corrects the votes to these two items of the agenda, because they have been carried out in contravention of the forecast, there should be no member at this point in the vote of this Group. In this way, it is likely that it is impossible to work in the National Assembly to order obstruction and then vote without calling off the decision of the parliamentary group. As President or as President of the National Assembly, however, you are obliged to ensure that the votes are held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For these two agenda items, the vote was not carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I propose that, before we continue to work in the National Assembly, before we vote, we clarify these two votes, which were carried out in contravention of the forecast, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. My position at this point – and as President or as Chairman, I have this right to interpret the rules of procedure during the meeting – is that no Member may be deprived of the right to vote, whether or not the obstruction is announced. It's a matter of political culture, political responsibility. If the obstruction indicates how the Group of Members is holding on to it, after all, one of the Members or Members of the Obstruction may not agree and wish to participate in the debate. That is what I think or I am convinced that I should give the Rules of Procedure the explicit right to prohibit voting to anyone, let alone to cancel a vote. We can talk about this next time in college or on a business committee, if you like, but for now this is the position. Once more procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u278	Madam President, what can I say to your explanation? In the National Assembly, you're probably one of those actors that makes no business arrangements apply. If the second paragraph of Article 65 commands that the Head of the Group of Members may order the absence of all members of the Group of Members in the examination of a particular item on the agenda, then it is likely that such a decision must be announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There was a bat. The absence of all members of the parliamentary group for all agenda items, except two, was announced. I would like to know how it is possible for a parliamentary group that is obstructing to vote on the points without anyone warning or saying, "We shall no longer obstruct the agenda on these items." That is not possible, Mr. President of the National Assembly, it is not possible! I propose that, before we continue this meeting, this is my procedural proposal, you take the time, if not, and I propose a recess before the vote to clear up these matters associated with this vote or with these two votes. 45 minutes off, I suggest we clear this up. Before the vote on the next item. Yes, I do. Because this means a violation of all procedural standards in the National Assembly. In this regard, I should like to point out that the Member of their Group, Mrs Kociper, voted twice at the working body's meeting, although she was not there with a mandate or was an additional member at this meeting of the Committee on Finance. At the end of the second time, she even apologized. I think that such conduct by Members of the National Assembly is unacceptable. If you are not able to provide parts of the National Assembly in accordance with the prescribed standards, then it is better that this State Assembly be dissolved or given a new leadership that will be able to conduct procedures in the National Assembly in accordance with the rules of procedure in force. Mr. President, you're surprised, but that's how it is. We have a Rules of Procedure solely to work on it and not to have the chairman inventing explanations left, right, up, down, two hours so, half an hour so, etc. That's why it's the rules of procedure. Read Article 65. No one called it off, announced the other conduct of the Group of Members was no one, but a vote took place on these two agenda items. I propose a suspension to clear up these matters before we continue to vote on the other items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u279	Mr. Tanko, two things. First time. The leader of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia said this morning that the parliamentary group would participate in the vote on constitutional changes; in this Chamber, in the morning, we heard those who were present. Although I did not lead, I was in the hall because there was a point where I was proposing, and I heard it, he predicted. As it is said: I think the Group of Members has the right to go and come back. It's not a mouse, so it's a two-way trip from the National Assembly and to the National Assembly. That's one thing. Second thing. Indeed, I would not hope for any of the 90 members of the National Assembly to withdraw the right to vote because no business provision allows me to do so. See, the second paragraph of Article 65 says: "The leadership of the Group may indicate the absence of all members of the Group in the consideration of each item on the agenda, with reasons for absence." As a lawyer, I would have expected that, if it was suggested that a vote should be taken in such a case, so that the next sentence of the Rules of Procedure would be drafted, then no member of the Group of Members should participate in the vote. I can't agree to an explanation like that, and I'm not going to interrupt this session. You, of course, have the right to request 45 minutes for consideration, for advice, but you will take us all 45 minutes for this before the vote, so – decide. You want a 45-minute break? Good. We're just before the vote. 45 minutes each Member State has the right to a recess and we will do so. We'll pick it up at 5:37.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u280	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session! We are now at the end of the 15th item of the agenda. First of all, I ask Mr Tank, the leader of the parliamentary group, if he wishes to explain the position of the parliamentary group? Yes, you do. No, no, no. Good. Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. Mr. Weber, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I would like to say that the Group of Social Democrats will not participate in this item on the agenda, because we want to leave the coalition to agree on how it will work, vote, whether it takes into account the proposals of the President of the National Assembly or not, by predicting the absence of a vote on this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u282	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. We're voting. For reasons of indiscretion, we will repeat the vote. We have to re-vote. Please be careful if there are 46 of us, pay attention to the vote. My colleague Janja has joined us. Check the voting device. Once again, we are voting on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Be careful. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, all 47 voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm moving to 22. Agenda item — Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the prevention of works and on employment in black, summary procedure The second hearing on the draft law was held at the 5th ordinary meeting and, in accordance with the first paragraph, Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure decided that we should take a decision on the proposal for a law at one of the following meetings. We're on it now. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, there are more and more of us in favour of all 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Friday, 20 July 2012, at 8 a.m. with the 27th item of the agenda. On Friday, at 11:20 a.m., we will also be addressed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. See you later. Thank you.
