ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-25-SDZ6-Izredna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr Minister! I begin the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Romana Tomc, Iva Dimic, Saša Kos, Janja Klasinc, Jožef Kavtičnik, Roman Jakič, Roberto Battelli, Jakob Presečnik and Matevž Frangež. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting, I welcome the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, and I also welcome all the others present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on 24 April 2012 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose that we set the agenda as you have received by reference. We're moving to decision-making, please, if you check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting on the agenda. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 2. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against two.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is in line with the request of the Group of Members and Members to decide on the decision of the College of the President of the State to propose a law on the balance of public finances to be drawn up in accordance with the procedure in question. At its 14th meeting, on 23 April 2012, the College decided that the draft Law on Public Finance Balance should be considered on an urgent basis. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Within a time limit of business, a group of 27 Members and Members have requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly be taken again. The first to be signed is Mr Jani Möderndorfer, who is also given the floor to present the request or position. Please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-25-SDZ6-Izredna-12.ana.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In Positive Slovenia, we strongly oppose the rush by which the Government or the ruling coalition tries to force the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act as soon as possible. We note that the proposed law, which together with its explanations covers almost 300 pages and intervenes in 45 other sectoral laws, is full of inconsistencies, even the personal opinions of public servants who have written the law in such an haste that they have even forgotten to delete them behind them, contrary to the provisions they have laid down, incomprehensible, because the applicants themselves did not even have time to translate texts from English into Slovenian, and in particular it is not consistent with the social partners. In addition, the opinion of the Government's legislative service is unknown. We are also surprised that the professional service of the National Assembly has not been identified to the extent of these inconsistencies. Such a way of working as is imposed on us, including the Government itself and the ruling coalition, is, in our view, extremely offensive and unworthy for the National Assembly. Reduction of expenditure on public financing cash. Of course, the very execution itself leads to the fact that it is very important to draw attention to the following. First of all, let me mention that we have already opposed Monday's College of Presidents of the National Assembly to the urgent procedure by which the National Assembly is supposed to decide on the law on public finances balance, but unfortunately, despite all the shortcomings mentioned in the law, of course, we have failed. That is why in Positive Slovenia we have requested a re-decision on the procedure to be followed. In so doing, I would like to point out to you, President of the National Assembly, that despite our request yesterday, some of the working bodies led by the Presidents of the ruling coalition have continued. The latter, in our view, constitutes a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and we expect you to take action against those mentioned. The Government, by means of the proposed law on the intervention of temporary regulation of rights regulated in collective agreements, is also interfering with the content of collective agreements concluded and in force. In incorporating such measures into the law, the Government would be expected to conclude negotiations with the social partners first, especially after the general public sector statement had been terminated, and thus offer the social partners an unusual way of continuing social dialogue through the legislative process. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we propose that decision-making on the budget balance, the proposal for the Public Finance Balance Act, be postponed until social dialogue continues, while at the same time allowing more time for political debate and better solutions. In doing so, we would like to remind you – especially those coalition partners that, like all of us in Positive Slovenia, have concluded an agreement with the unions between the social partners and parliamentary parties on the 2012 Act on Additional Interventions – that yesterday the trade unions addressed an initiative to organise a consultation on this law to harmonise the necessary reforms and changes together with the entire package of austerity measures. In Positive Slovenia we support the initiative and intend to attend, and the consultation will be possible to organise and carry out, of course, dialogue with the social partners only if the law is dealt with on a regular basis. Our request is therefore well-intentioned and is not made with a view to obstructing or blocking the treatment of the law. I hope you are aware that, otherwise, it is likely that a referendum initiative will take place, which we witnessed in the event of the recently adopted amendment to the Law on Interventions, but it was only a regression and perhaps even a decision on the law at the referendum. For all the reasons mentioned above, we therefore urge you to vote against the treatment of the law on an urgent basis. Finally, let me mention only one fact. All of you, both on the left and on the right, are well aware that in the National Assembly, if we count ourselves, of course, vehemently, you can automatically reject this proposal. However, it was not intended for us to just count each other again. In particular, it was one purpose – that all Members and Members of Parliament together realize that this is a special law that has never been dealt with in the history of Slovenia in such a way, to the extent that it would so reformably intervene in rights. That's why I'm calling for reason. The reason you've all stood up for and we've stood up and I believe and I hope we'll move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-25-SDZ6-Izredna-12.ana.u3	Thank you. There is no debate on this request and there is no explanation for the vote, so we are moving on to a decision. Please check for voting devices. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a Public Finance Balance Act shall be considered on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 31. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the National Assembly will therefore consider the draft Law on Public Finance Balance in accordance with the urgent procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
