ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! We continue the 9th regular session of the National Assembly. Today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Polonca Komar, Jožef Kavtičnik, Srečko Meh and Gaspar Gaspar Mišič. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, that is to speak of the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister for the interior of Dr. Winko Gorenak's case. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 27 Members and Members with a first-signed Janie Möderndorfer. I now give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer's representative to explain the interpretation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! Interpellation on the work and responsibility of each minister is an important instrument for parliamentary supervision of the work of the executive branch or in today's specific case on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Let me, at the outset, state the purely basic and basic evidence of the interpretation itself, which has led to such a level of dissatisfaction with the work of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, that we propose to the National Assembly that the Minister be dismissed. It is the Minister's meddling with signatures under the initiative of voters to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks – I will then use the word referendum on a bad bank. We have tabled interpellations on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to attempt as Minister of the Interior to prevent the referendum initiative of voters for a referendum on the bad bank by deliberately delaying information from the National Assembly and, consequently, the initiators as to whether the initiative meets certain conditions under the law. It has thus prevented instigators from supplementing the initiative in accordance with the law within legal time limits and thus resulted in the completion of the procedure to the detriment of the initiators, the initiative being rejected, and citizens and citizens being prevented from exercising general and equal electoral rights under Article 63 of the Constitution and the freedom to vote in the referendum provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution. Furthermore, due to the objective and political responsibility for the work of the Ministry of the Interior, as Minister, he left his due diligence in handling the signatures under the two electoral initiatives for the referendum, in view of the referendum on the bad bank, where 36 letters with copies of signatures on which 394 signatures were collected disappeared, as well as the referendum on the Slovenian State Holding, where 104 letters with copies of signatures disappeared. This conduct is contrary to articles 2 and 90 of the Constitution, to the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative and is controversial in terms of transparency and due diligence in handling signatures. Last but not least, due to objective and political responsibility for the operation and conduct of the Internal Affairs Department, which has resulted in the loss of the confidence of voters and voters and the general public in the legality of the work and integrity of the Minister for Internal Affairs, which is also evidenced by current public opinion polls. The Minister has caused difficult remedial consequences for the state of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia by his work and conduct, and therefore we ask him to resign or propose to the National Assembly to discharge him as Minister of Home Affairs. Now, allow me a little further explanation of the reading from the interpretation itself, which concerns mixing with the signatures of the initiators for the referendum on the bad bank. Wednesday, 10. Ten. In 2012, a group of voters, or union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries of Slovenia – I will continue to use the KNG Trade Union – presented to the National Assembly an initiative by voters to apply for a legislative referendum on a bad bank. On the same day, the Council of State adopted a request for re-decision on the law, the procedures for the treatment of the KNG Trade Union initiative were thus settled until the re-voting of the law, which was reaffirmed by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 23. Ten. 2012. The president of the National Assembly is on Thursday, 25. Ten. 2012, the Ministry of the Interior, as responsible for keeping the register of electoral rights, forwarded the initiative with the attached list of signatures of the electorates and voters for verification. The letter also gave the Minister of the Interior a deadline, which was Monday, 29. Ten. 2012, to verify whether the initiative meets certain conditions under the law, at least 2 000 500 voters signed it. The Minister of the Interior is on Tuesday, 30. Ten. In 2012, therefore, following the expiry of the deadline set by the President of the National Assembly, in order to be able to take account of the statutory deadline within which he should inform the initiators of their initiative, he forwarded a notification concerning the verification of signatures in the Bad Bank referendum initiative. Out of a notice dated Friday, otherwise. 26. Ten. 2012, it was concluded that only 2 000 346 signatures met the legal requirements. Although the notice was dated 26. Ten. The Ministry’s headquarters, which is approximately 150 metres from the National Assembly, was forwarded by the courier and the competent service, which verified the signatures, is located on the opposite side of the street, received a notice to the National Assembly just before the expiry of the law of the specified deadline. By the way, the Minister's response to the interpellation came within a short period of time, and the Minister is longer than the National Assembly. In the Information System of the National Assembly, the Ministry's notice was filed on Tuesday, 30. Ten. 2012, around 15.45 p.m. The deadline expired the same day, i.e. 30. Ten. 2012 at 4 p.m. when the time of service of the National Assembly expires. Following confirmation by the President of the National Assembly, the courier of the National Assembly in cases where the National Assembly transmits photocopies of signatures shall make the journey, including the tasks provided for in office operations, not more than 23 minutes. Who, in fact, does this period apply to? As soon as possible, the National Assembly made sure that a signed letter from the President of the National Assembly was sent to the Ministry of the Interior. The National Assembly therefore sets a seven-day deadline for the submission of an initiative supported by the signatures of 2 000 500 voters to ensure the conditions for the effective exercise of the right to a referendum initiative – Articles 12a and 13 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative. The second paragraph of Article 12a provides that the initiator of the request shall, within seven days of the adoption of the law, inform the President of the National Assembly of his initiative in the manner set out in Article 16. Article 13 provides that "if, on the basis of the request of the Council of State, the National Assembly has re-adopted the law at the time of the re-decision, the period of seven days for the filing of the request and the notification of the initiative referred to in Article 12a of this Act shall be counted from the date of the adoption of the law in the re-decision". In this case, the signatures collected to support the initiative before re-decision shall also be taken into account. How, then, can the President of the National Assembly send something that he has not yet checked? The deadlines set by the law in this case are intended for the initiators of the referendum and not for the President of the National Assembly. This means that the initiator had the right to collect signatures until 29. Ten. 2012 and that the President of the National Assembly could send the signatures collected to the Ministry of the Interior 30. Ten. 2012. The President of the National Assembly, although receiving a report from the Ministry of the Interior on the insufficient number of signatures to the initiative and that the deadline for submitting the request for a referendum had already expired, did not send the law to the public because he was aware that this would have incorrigible consequences for the referendum initiative's proponents. It is precisely by its active, swift and consistent conduct that it has prevented the possible illegal conduct of the State authority and by re-checking the number of duly entered signatures on the basis of the saved original that the electorate may continue the procedure for submitting a request for a referendum. Given that the time limit laid down in the law, the Minister cannot plead that he did not know or that he was not covered by the law. If the Minister does not respect the time limit set for the President of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly not to notify him in due time of the initiative and its signatures, then, of course, this time limit cannot be respected by the President of the National Assembly himself, as he received the notice too late. This was also one of the reasons why the President of the State Council asked the Minister in his letter to review the signatures by Monday and not Tuesday when it was the last day. If the Minister were to respect the deadline set, for which he would like to say that he is not concerned, this would mean that the KNG Union could complement its initiative with the missing signatures. Thus, the President of the National Assembly has no other choice but to inform the initiators of the conclusion of the procedure or of the fact that the initiative does not meet all the legal conditions. The President of the National Assembly was therefore unable to set a calendar time limit for the collection of signatures, thus completing the procedure under law and allowing the President of the National Assembly to make a declaration to the President of the Republic. In the case of the Bad Bank referendum procedure, we cannot go beyond the noticeed delay of the procedure, especially when comparing it with the procedures for other referendum initiatives. Just for a better idea of how quickly these procedures can be completed, let me give an example of the referendum initiative on the guarantee law for TES 6, which is well known to everyone when the process of verifying signatures was completed within two days of the initiative being tabled. While the Minister will plead that the Ministry has never been in such a situation when two initiatives have been taken at the same time in the verification, I would like to draw your attention here to the double criteria for addressing both initiatives. The Minister states in his reply to the interpolation that the signatures of the initiators for the holding referendum were reviewed on Friday, 26. 10th, that is, on the same day that the notice was also delivered to the National Assembly. If, with regard to the initiative on the referendum on the bad bank, only the control carried out on Monday was really necessary, the question arises why a notification was not signed to the National Assembly immediately and not only on Tuesday, just before the end of the business time of the competent service of the National Assembly on the last day of the deadline. In this regard, I would like to draw attention once again to the remarks made by the President of the National Assembly that such a post, transmitted by the National Assembly to the Ministry of the Interior, is a notification of a referendum initiative requesting the verification of signatures and a photocopy of the list of signatures between the two national authorities travels for a maximum of 23 minutes. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission found that, at the Ministry of the Interior, more business time was spent at the Ministry of the Interior to obtain the Minister's signature and to open the verified signatures of the supporters of the referendum initiative than just to verify signatures. The Commission therefore notes that it is a matter of ceasing due diligence for the proper, timely, effective and quality implementation by law and other regulations of certain tasks, as well as the obligations of the Ministry, which at the same time entail the realization of an important democratic and constitutionally guaranteed referendum right of the electorate and electorate. Double criteria are more than obvious. In addition to the double criteria, the annex to the notification concerning the verification of signatures on the initiative itself to call for a referendum on a bad bank submitted by the Ministry of State to the Assembly will be made public. This is a report from the Register of Permanent Populations that clearly indicates that the verification of signatures has already been completed 26. Ten o'clock in the afternoon. No one checked that register after that. It follows from the annex that at the Ministry when the election rights are checked in the Register of Permanent Populations, of all signatures collected for the 2 000 346 signatories of the initiative are already 26. Ten. At 15.39 they found that they had the right to vote and that they also listed the correct and statutory personal data. According to the Minister of Public Affairs, the verification of signatures under both initiatives was completed on Friday 26. 10. all doubts about the Minister's manipulation were raised, and his explanations were then increasingly unusual, as for example, that the worker, the leader who worked on this, decided that 154 signatures required control – a check carried out for four days, although the Ministry of Verification needed more than 2 000 543 signatures under the holding referendum initiative and 2 000 733 signatures under the Bad Bank referendum initiative, which required one and a half working day and 28 public officials to verify the signatures. Therefore, the Minister's assertion that it took another working day to control 154 signatures is unreasonable, in our opinion, unfounded and too obvious that it was only for the purpose of obstructing the referendum initiative. It is clear that the SDS Minister was not successful after negotiations between Minister Šuštersič and the KNG Trade Union in order to withdraw the referendum initiative, as was the case with regard to the other holding initiative, and by this delay and manipulation he was trying to conclude the referendum procedure due to non-compliance with the legal conditions. It is also worth recalling the fact that Dr Janez Šušteršič, Minister of Finance, has terminated negotiations with the KNG Trade Union because he was early aware that the initiative did not comply with the law of certain conditions; this means that in addition to the Minister of the Interior, some members of the Government were informed of the conditions of the referendum initiative before the National Assembly and, consequently, the initiators themselves were informed. In view of everything that has been said, it will first be necessary to determine whether or not it was a political agreement and thus a crime itself. Because political agreement is also addressed by the fact that notices about the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Slovenian State Holding in the National Assembly 26. Ten. 2012 was not sent by the Minister, but by Secretary of State Barbara Brezigar. The Ministry, as already mentioned in the agreement, apologized for the reply to its behaviour, stating that both separate letters with a reply to the National Assembly were prepared on Friday and that only a letter was sent concerning the verification of the list of signatories for the first request. However, the second letter, which was sent later, was not altered. The Ministry’s statements appear to be doubtful, since the sign code or the number of both letters indicates that the letter signed by State Secretary Barbara Brezigar, letter number 042-9/2012, was followed by a letter signed by the Minister, with the number of letter 042-8/2012, is a clear order of introduction of documents. By the way, the minister says Friday, 26. Ten. 2012, he was not in Ljubljana, but was officially absent all day. Since he spoke at the conference of the Association of Administrative Workers of Slovenia in Maribor at 9 p.m., the document was signed by the State Secretary. But such a speech requires the Minister's absence for a full day's service, for each to judge for himself. But force is an unusual and, of course, a very convenient excuse, especially if you have a signature that you do not perform every day. A whole bunch of questions are opening up. Is there really a mix-up on the date the Ministry claims? Why are two competent persons signed under two letters of the same date? Why was the notice of invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on a bad bank sent to the Minister and not to the Secretary of State? Why was the first letter sent that came from the others? Why was it decided to carry out a verification of the appropriateness of the verification carried out in the coming days, although there was little credible signatures and it would be possible to verify them on the same day? Of course, it is suspected that the Minister has signed the minutes with a non-real content, leaving due diligence in signing, which is a power to be considered negligence and thus is also the subjective responsibility of the Minister, and not only objective, of which today and the last days are so much talk. The Minister of the Interior has violated the fundamental legal principle of equal opportunities that both the initiators and the opponents of the referendum must have by delaying the treatment and information of the National Assembly. This principle, which is explicitly demanded and recognised by the Council of Europe, is realized by the debt neutrality of the public authorities in the consideration of the referendum initiative. The conduct of the Minister of the Interior was a restriction on holders of political rights to collect signatures for the submission of a referendum initiative. However, this restriction had no basis in the law was not in the public interest, was not proportionate and was not based on the principle of equality. The Minister, who thus attempts to prevent citizens and citizens from exercising general and equal electoral rights, freedom of expression in the referendum campaign and freedom to vote in the referendum, shall not hold any public office. At this point, it is worth quoting the Minister of the Interior, who wrote on his blog: "When I make a mistake myself or my subordinates will make it, there will be no interpretation. In this case, I'll offer my own resignation. Honesty and responsibility with my constituents shall apply." Minister, the mistake was more than obvious. That's what I think you know. When and how you will recognize it publicly, of course, it is up to you. After we ascertained whether the Minister deliberately delayed by informing the National Assembly of the initiative and the signatures collected, since the annex to the notice actually proves that the checks at the Ministry had been completed on Friday, 26. Ten. 2012 and the notice only arrives in the National Assembly 30. Ten. In 2012, KNG 2 is a union. 11. 2012 addressed a protest to the President of the National Assembly because he had not yet received the notification and expressed doubts that the number of signatures was wrong, as the initiators submitted 3 000 127 signatures, which means that, according to the conclusions of the competent ministry, more than 800 signatures were invalid. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly invites the initiators to check with the professional services how the procedure for signatures has been carried out in the National Assembly and to verify the signatures or conclusions of the Ministry. The internal investigation showed that the competent service of the National Assembly of the Ministry of the Interior had received 36 letters of signature less than it had sent there. The National Assembly sent 307 letters with signatures, received back 271. The internal investigation showed that two lists of initiatives by the Energy Workers' Union to call for a holding referendum were also tabled during the initiative. Following the verification of this initiative, it has also been shown that there is a difference between the number of sheets with original signatures and returned lists with photocopies of signatures by the Ministry. The difference was 104 sheets. The President of the National Assembly is 7. 11. 2012 resubmitted an application for verification of signatures with a photocopy of the initiative and a list of signatures to the Ministry. 307 missing signature photocopy sheets were issued. According to the findings of the internal inquiry in the National Assembly on the procedures for verifying signatures for the initiation of the proceedings for the referendum on the bad bank, the Ministry of the Interior also put in place supervision of the work of the Directorate of Administration and Home Affairs, where they carried out the counting and review of signatures. The Ministry of the Interior is 7. 11. 2012 made the public aware of the results of its internal investigation. It is worth noting that the group that proposed the implementation of the signature verification procedure was appointed by the Minister himself. He also appointed two public servants from his cabinet, who are linked to the Minister's personal trust. I do not think that it is necessary to stress the independence of its findings by simply meeting in the supervisory group. Doubts about the findings of control are also triggered by the exercise of control itself, especially because we estimate that the control has been inadequately carried out. The Monitoring Group conducted interviews with only five public servants and staff members who examined the signatures under the initiatives, and you know that they were much more involved in the review. In addition, it was found that all the letters of signature were not processed in accordance with the office order of the competent person, which means that it was not possible to determine who verified these lists with signatures and that the informatics examined the subsequent records of the indisputable 271 letters returned by the Ministry to the National Assembly, which is absurd. Why would someone check out lists that aren't controversial? In addition, the Commission notes in order to prevent corruption that the internal investigation was carried out relatively quickly, but according to the Commission’s assessment, incomplete, incomplete and superficial. The findings, as it is said, are appropriately incomplete, flawed and do not reflect the actual situation. According to an assessment by the Commission at the Ministry of the Interior: for the first time, they did not fully review the logbook of activities in the register of electoral rights in order to determine with certainty the actual number of persons examined. Secondly, it was not found that among the 271 lists signed by the supporters of the legislative referendum initiative are also 2 lists of 18 relevant supporters with the signatures of the supporters of the second referendum, namely the legislative referendum for the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thirdly, they did not check and determine when or why the letter with verified signatures was sent to the National Assembly only on Tuesday, 30. Ten. 2012. Fourthly, they did not compare the data from the log of activities in the register of electoral rights which were verified subsequently after the re-delivery of the missing 36 sheets on 7. 11th from the National Assembly. Fifth. They did not verify or identify the reasons for the inconsistencies and inaccuracies of the statements made by the head of the sector in view of the statements made by the other, one of the eighty staff members and the staff members who examined the signatures. Six. They did not determine the exact time to copy verified sheets with the signatories who were sent to the National Assembly 30. Ten. 2012 and dispatch of the reply of the Ministry of the Interior to the National Assembly. It's a week. They have not identified and sufficiently scrutinised the circumstances of receipt, number of documents received and their recording, allocation, notification of individual documents into the work, insurance and storage of the documents in question, which were clearly carried out in contravention or infringements of the Regulation on Administrative Operations and the internal general act of the Ministry of the Interior on office operations and the management of documentary material. In particular, because the emerging forms of these infringements of the internal rules on the one hand constitute a serious risk factor or a reason for the lack of documents and, on the other hand, to prevent the reconstruction of the disputed business and the conclusion of the actual situation and the absence of missing documents by the signatures of the electorate and electorate. We estimate that the Ministry of Signatures has acted carelessly and inconsistently with the list of signatures. Firstly, when the Ministry checked the signatures under the holding referendum, after it found that 2 000 543 signatories had the right to vote and that the correct personal data had also been provided, the verification of the other signatures had ceased and the State dentist had only provided photocopies of the list of verified signatures with the signatures themselves. The unsupervised leaves were not transmitted to the National Assembly at all, and they were simply retained. Another time. Although both of them were informed of the two referenda with returned lists of signatures forwarded to the National Assembly in different days, with different mails, the National Assembly found that the letters or two letters from the holding referendum initiative were also submitted during the Bad Bank referendum initiative, and they were not submitted in a sequence but in a margin. In doing so, it should be noted that one of them has been formally reviewed and the other is not at all. The National Assembly found that the order of the sheets received from the Ministry did not correspond to the order of the original leaves in any of the initiatives. It's a decision. The Ministry therefore added to one initiative a copy of the letters with signatures in support of the second initiative, and also returned to the National Assembly the lists which had not been verified and which were to be kept by the Ministry at the Ministry. In view of the fact that the order of the returned copies of the leaves does not correspond to the original, it is reasonable to conclude that 36 copies of the documents or leaves have not disappeared into the National Assembly. It is therefore clear to the Minister that there is a suspension of the duty of professional care in handling the letters themselves. Yesterday Mr Tanko in Odesov mentioned the eight-fold handling of documents in the National Assembly – not true! He has always handled a list of signatures from hand to hand, always in a package and unattainable to others. The locked iron cabinet, the key in the safe itself — more than enough is clear that more people could not handle the same documents. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in its report on page 8 also cites: "In the National Assembly, the preservation and insurance of the initiative and the list received were carried out appropriately and does not constitute a factor and a risk that could result in the loss or removal of missing documents." The latter are also made clear by the Anti-Corruption Commission. The whole process of managing and operating the verification of the signatories in the register of electoral rights at the Ministry of the Interior is, taking into account the legal and factual situation established, according to the Commission's findings, burdened by violations of the Regulation on Administrative Operations, the management and management instructions of documented material as well as the Personal Data Protection Act and its internal acts of the Ministry of the Interior which regulate and provide organisational and technical measures for the protection and protection of personal data and infringements have determined the confidentiality of data under the Law on Referendum and Electoral Rights. Nor is it possible that the Minister of the Interior has decided to conduct an internal investigation only after an internal investigation in the National Assembly has shown that the person responsible for mixing signatures must be sought at the Ministry. While there was a thorough investigation and clearance within the College of the President of the National Assembly in the National Assembly, the Minister of the Interior preferred to deal with disqualification and political comments on the conduct of those who demanded that signatures be investigated and that the latter should be subject to objective and political responsibility. How there was a difference in the number of signatures, the Minister and those responsible at the Ministry of the Interior did not know to this day whether they wanted to explain. It follows from their conduct that, in order to clarify and clarify all facts and circumstances, and to determine the actual state of disappearance of the signatures of voters and electorates, they do not even seek. The Minister of the Interior, who is objectively responsible for the work of the Ministry running it, has not taken advantage of the possibility of preventing the occurrence of the irregularities described, nor is he working today to fully and comprehensively analyse the work processes at the Ministry of the Interior which have led to irregularities. It is therefore clear to him that it has not addressed the risks which can also be repeated in future in similar cases and that we request his resignation or discharge from the post of Minister. The unexplained disappearance of photocopy signatures under the initiative of the referendum on a bad bank tabled by the KNG Union within the statutory deadline is a dangerous precedent that we do not remember in our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the referendum initiative of the electorate has been prevented – very simple and understandable. An event that shows an attempt to prevent the expression of the democratic will of the electorate and endangers not only democratic standards in the country but also the constitutional regime by which the people exercise power directly. This is a violation of the constitutional right to referendum decision. The Republic of Slovenia is based on the very principle of the rule of the people, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates in Article 3 that it has authority over the people in Slovenia. The right to a referendum provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution means one of the most important possibilities for people to exercise their authority directly. Interference in the right to a referendum or in the right of the people to exercise this right also constitutes an intervention in the foundations of democracy. However, any interference with the foundations of democracy is extremely repulsive and dangerous. It is therefore the duty of Members and Members of the National Assembly to protect the democracy and constitutional rights of the Republic of Slovenia and to enable the exercise of the right of voters to a referendum decision. In addition, Slovenia is a legal and democratic Member State of international organisations whose operation is based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of democracy and the principles of the rule of law. In order to protect its reputation and to be a full and credible member of these organizations, it cannot afford to have such a precedent ever again. In view of the above-mentioned disputed conduct in terms of correctness and transparency of the handling of signatures, doubts shall be raised as to the correctness, regularity and legality of the work of the services of the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior, which shall act on the basis of referendum initiatives and examine the signatures collected under the referendum initiatives. He also raised doubts about the abuse of the State authority, the Ministry of the Interior, to achieve political interests in order to ensure that the procedure for the initiative of voters to apply for a legislative referendum was concluded or that no referendum could be called for. In doing so, the National Assembly suffered severe remedial consequences as there was damage to the reputation and integrity of the National Assembly. These consequences will be difficult to correct despite the fact that the President of the National Assembly is 19. 11. 2012 called for a 35-day deadline for the collection of 40,000 signatures under the request for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on a bad bank. The reputation of the National Assembly was also undermined by the doubts expressed by the Minister of the Interior that the services of the National Assembly were carried out properly, correctly and legally. With this statement in public, the Minister gave the impression that he caused all irregularities in relation to the referendum initiative to the National Assembly, which added to the reputation of the National Assembly. In addition, the Minister of the Interior, prior to the initiation of the criminal investigation on the basis of a criminal complaint brought against an unknown offender by the National Assembly, announced publicly that this investigation would start in the National Assembly. In our view, the Minister has abused his position since, in accordance with the current legal regime, the Prosecutor of State is the one responsible for directing the police to deal with crimes rather than the Minister. In this way, the Minister of the Interior in public has reinforced the impression that the police are no longer independent of the political pressures of the Minister of Interior or political orientation. The unexplained disappearance of a large number of signatures, the delay in informing the National Assembly of the fulfilment of the terms of the referendum initiative and in public confidence in the legality and integrity of both the Ministry of Interior and the National Assembly is unacceptable, harmful and in the long term also dangerous. Since the disappearance of photocopying of signatures was not a matter of negligence or ignorance at work or error, but obviously also for intentional action, the attempt to prevent the referendum initiative of voters must be duly sanctioned. The subjective, therefore, personal responsibility of those or those responsible for the act is the matter of the procedures of the detection and prosecution authorities. The gravity and type of infringements also unequivocally require the political and objective responsibility of those or those who have either been in their interest or should be prevented from doing so. While the Minister claims that there is no evidence that the signatures disappeared at the Ministry of the Interior, he said they could also be lost in the National Assembly. Therefore, at the end of the presentation of the interpolation, I should like to recall once again briefly. The President of the National Assembly strongly denied and, in cooperation with the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, proved that the State Assembly had always acted with care. There are also no differences in the lists of signatures between the National Assembly and the initiators of the referendum. The President of the National Assembly, after learning of the missing signatures, did everything he could to enable the initiators of the referendum to collect signatures for the referendum, although some eminent lawyers cautioned that he did not have the authority to retain the publication of the law after the expiry of the deadline. The Anti-Corruption Commission also notes that the response of the National Assembly to the perception of lost, missing ballots with the signatures of the electorate and the electorate was rapid, with the internal review carried out immediately and relatively comprehensive and that, in compliance with the new rules set out in the Commission's assessment, this will significantly reduce or eliminate the risk of recurrence. On the other hand, the Minister of the Interior has made several statements to show that the constitutionally guaranteed rights of people are not an important category. In the event of a request for a holding referendum, even with respect to a democratic society alone, he tried to do everything possible to prevent the referendum itself. In addition, the Commission, which researched at the Ministry of the Interior what had happened through the verification of signatures, had drawn up, through the staff of its cabinet, among which two of its closest co-workers, ensured an appropriate impact on its work and thus questioned all the findings of the Commission itself. In addition, the Commission notes in order to prevent corruption that the internal investigation was carried out relatively quickly, but according to the Commission’s assessment, incomplete, incomplete and superficial. The findings, as said, are appropriately incomplete, inadequate and do not reflect the actual situation, the inconsistencies in the writing of the results report and the findings of the internal investigation raise further doubts as to the correctness or quality of the Ministry of the Interior's operations with the initiative. Given that the Minister claims that, on the basis of his police experience, he can predict and point out any criminal act, such an approach is at least unusual. In the end, if there is no irrefutable evidence of where the signature lists have disappeared, in the end, given the information available, and in relation to the relationship between the two key actors with respect to constitutionality and legality and their reactions to public disclosure, we must decide who to trust, that not all the signatures collected have been taken into account. With regard to the lost leaves with signatures, it is clear that we cannot – we simply cannot – do so. In this regard, I would also like to point out that, in order to prevent corruption, the Commission notes that, in addition to irregularities in recording, physical handling or the protection of the entire dossier is inadequate and contrary to the rules to this extent, it is possible to speak of a greater likelihood that the removal or loss of leaves itself occurred to that body. In addition, the Commission considers that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior acted as an institution contrary to the expected integrity. By submitting a formal notice of missing signatures to the National Assembly only prior to the expiry of the marriage period, although on Friday it was 26. On 10 a.m., it is known that signatures are not sufficient, and some other officials and public servants have been informed on the same day. These circumstances, according to the Commission's assessment, justify the fact that in this part it was either intentional or reckless abandonment of due diligence for proper and timely effective and quality implementation by law and other regulations of certain tasks and obligations of the Ministry, which at the same time constitute the exercise of an important democratic and constitutionally guaranteed referendum right of the electorate and electorate. The fact that the Ministry of the Interior had formally notified the National Assembly only a few days before the expiry of the legal period made it impossible for the initiators to complete the application within the time limit. Let me point out once again that in order to prevent corruption, the Commission considers that it has taken place in a specific case either for intentional and delegated purposes or for the neglect of due diligence for proper, timely, effective and quality implementation by law and other rules of certain tasks and by the Ministry itself. The undeniable fact is that the conduct of a number of stakeholders in the whole process resulted in the fact that the initiators of the referendum could not have completed their role within the legal time limit and within a short period of time if it proved that signatures were not sufficient. In view of the importance of the constitutional rights associated with the referendum initiatives, such conduct by the competent authorities is unacceptable and is also contrary to the expected integrity alone, as it can directly affect the inability to effectively exercise the right of voters and voters to the legislative referendum itself. According to the opinion of the interviewing investors on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Minister Vinko Gorenak, because of his conduct and the abandonment of his duties, has caused such serious consequences for the state of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, that he has lost his full confidence in the public and the National Assembly and political credibility, so he is no longer able to hold the minister responsible. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the Minister of the Interior be dissolved on the basis of a vote of no confidence. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when you vote on the proposed decision, bear in mind that there has been an unacceptable scandal in our country that was not an accident. Members of the coalition have allowed unacceptable moves to prevent constitutional rights, and we are firmly committed to reaching the bottom of this signing site. If we do not recognize the culprit today in the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, it means that we will have to look elsewhere. I promise you that someone will take responsibility for this destruction of democratic standards, and this will not be some sinful goat you want to find in the indeterminate public servant of the National Assembly or the Ministry of Home Affairs, nor will these be poorly set standards for handling signatures. The objective responsibility for this scandal may be borne only by the name and by the name of one of the chairpersons of the two institutions in which the signatures were signed: the National Assembly or the Ministry of the Interior. It is our firm conviction that this is the Minister of the Interior. However, if you will wash it off with political responsibilities today, it means that you have decided to make mistakes in this house. With today's pressure on the button, you will decide between loyalty to the coalition contract on the one hand and loyalty to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the other. It's a decision, and I think it should be a light one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u3	You received Dr. Vinko Gorenak's reply to the interpretation by letter. I give the floor to Minister Gorenak to explain the written answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much. In my response to the interpolation, I will try, in particular, to use facts, to use documents, to use exact times and not flat-rate things, and even less of any lies. The Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia therefore tell me that I have tried, as Minister, to prevent the referendum initiative of voters to apply for a legislative referendum on the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In my implementation, I will continue to use the term bad bank. The second observation from the interpolation is that due to objective and political responsibility for the ministry's work, or the suspension of due professional diligence in the handling of signatures under the initiative of voters on the bad bank and the follow-up to the referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act, I will continue to use the term holding. And the third observation recorded in the interpretation is that due to the objective and political responsibility to act and act, it is intended to result in the loss of the confidence of voters and voters in the legality of the work and integrity of the Ministry of the Interior as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. If I summarize the findings very briefly, there are three observations; firstly, direct responsibility for deliberately delaying the notification of the National Assembly on the referendum on the bad bank, secondly, the suspension of professional care in relation to the poor bank and holding the holding company and thirdly, the objective responsibility for the loss of confidence of the electorate and electorate. All the readings, from first to last, I reject. I reject direct responsibility. Direct responsibility mainly because I'm 24. 10, 25. 10 and 26. 10. It wasn't even in Ljubljana. Direct responsibility is supposed to mean that I took some leaves, hid some leaves, and so on. Indirectly, we know what it means. Mr. Head of the Positive Slovenia Group, you said in your performance that one speech to the administrative workers in Maribor, specifically 26. 10. When you reasoned on why I did not sign that reply, but was the Secretary of State, there can be no reason to be absent all day. You asked me to then send you information of a public nature, where I was and what I was doing and what the costs were. I've ordered my services to give you more than you've asked. That's why you also got more than you asked, and that's what you have on your desk. In those documents on my business trips, however, it says: that at 9 a.m., I talked to administrative workers in Maribor, that at 11 a.m. I visited the Ljubljana-Center Police Station, that at 12.30 a.m. I laid my wreath on behalf of the country in Tehran and that I was at the private funeral of a criminal from Šentjur near Celje. You could see that from the documents, and you presented only the first part to the public. Professionally and politely, you would call it a deception, and people in the countryside would call it a lie. So you'll have to decide for yourself whether you're giving me direct responsibility or objective responsibility; you've mixed these concepts in the interpretation. All the professional institutions that monitored the operation of both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior have so far found that it is not possible to determine where 36 signatures were lost. All professional institutions – I am talking about the Commission to prevent corruption, I am talking about administrative inspection and information agents. Of course, you have already found this in your performance, but at this point I am obliged to give a message to both members of the coalition and you: you are trying to take advantage of the moment and you want to throw the wedge into the coalition. That's your goal! Why are you doing this? I'll say it to the end of my show. Either way, you want the coalition to break down, that's your goal. You're trying to get me to get me or the coalition members to attack one coalition party. So let me put it this way: in my performance, I will only mention facts, data and only documents. At the points where I will mention the National Assembly, this does not fly to a coalition partner, it does not fly to the President of the National Assembly, but I will try to highlight the reality at those points. Because your performance was simply so that you talked about some investigations and documents at the Ministry of the Interior, as if these same things, the information agents and everything else, would not be in the National Assembly. But I stress that, of course, my performance will only mention the facts and documents, including on the side of the National Assembly, which is not a criticism of the Civil Charter, which has nothing to do with this, nor of the President of the National Assembly. Because neither the President of the National Assembly nor I have ever held these lists in our hands, but they did business with these lists in both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, you attribute everything to me, as if I accepted the signatures, checked the signatures, removed them, and returned the smaller number of signatures to the National Assembly. You take that as a fact, and you know it's not. So what did you predict in your ten days of interpolation preparation? Wonder why I answered within 24 hours — I had a very easy job, since you spent ten days talking about what you would write. My answer was just the ten days you spent preparing the interpolation – I wrote the answer. The answer was actually written when you filed the interpolation, and all I had to do was find out the difficulty. In fact, you've been talking for ten days about the disappearance of 36 signature letters and that this is a central problem. But when you heard Dr. Pirnat's opinion, you turned the board around, and the problem arose in the alleged late announcement of the National Assembly, which is, of course, the central point of interpretation. So I didn't have a problem writing anything. That answer is probably the fastest in the history of the 29 interpolation ministers. But let's see some facts. DZ accepts the signatures, the National Assembly sends them to the Ministry of the Interior for verification, the Ministry examines the suitability of the signatories. He's checking his name, last name, address and birth records. These are key data which must be legally valid in order for the signature to be valid. When he realizes that the signature is 2 thousand 500 and just over — that 2 thousand 500 is the marriage period, of course it stops counting. Why should we count to 30,000, say, if marriage is 2 thousand 500 and that's enough? And at that point, inform the National Assembly. But let's see some facts and some mistakes. I do not see the problem of not talking about mistakes on the part of the Ministry of the Interior. The National Assembly did not count the sheets, even fewer signatures at the time of the takeover. It's a mistake. Three institutions have found this. The National Assembly did not count the photocopy of the signature list, second error. The MNZ did not count the signed lists. It's a third mistake. So, even with us, in the whole round, as the President of the National Assembly points out, there may have been a mistake. Some facts. The MNZ has not recalculated the signature lists. But he made a copy, but it's a mistake not to count them, and that has to be admitted. The President of the National Assembly speaks very clearly, and we must look for a mistake in the round of copies of documents between the National Assembly, the Ministry and back to the National Assembly. I agree with that. It was done after an inertial period of more than 15 years. This is also his claim, and I agree with it. Both here and at the Ministry of the Interior, both institutions. The president of the National Assembly goes on to say that it's good to have a security guard installed in the system. I mean, the original signatures are here. This can also be agreed upon. Originale's guarding the National Assembly. This can also be agreed upon. And it's always possible to control it. And whoever thought he could reach out by taking the leaves — whether it's in the National Assembly or it's in the Ministry — is actually wrong because the control mechanism in the National Assembly is in the form of originals. But let's look at some more facts: the loss of signature sheets between the National Assembly and the MNZ. This can, however, be agreed upon and no institution has so far found out where. No institution! So we don't know where. But the proponents know everything! Indeed, they know that this error has been made at the Ministry of the Interior. Unbelievable! It is amazing what the capacity of the members of Positive Slovenia, with 3 institutions, the Information Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Commission and the administrative inspection, has not been established. Unbelievable! So you have any proof that this has happened at the Ministry of the Interior — you do not! But you say that for political reasons. An important fact – you are counting, of course, on the conflict in the coalition. But as for my performance, I will not give you such an opportunity. Of course, I will not give you such an opportunity. Let's look ahead. My personal relationship to interpolation. I think it's important, however, that I say a few words. Seven. 11. I wrote a resignation statement and if we showed our internal control that a mistake had occurred with us, I would file it. And there's no reason I wouldn't do that in the future. No reason! This coalition or similar coalition has demonstrated very high standards in the field of the derogation of ministers over the period 2004-2008. At that time, Minister Žerjav offered to resign because of a few ten square metres of interference in the 16th century tunnel, which was installed by workers when, of course, he was not a minister at all. I think this is the way it should be done, and I will follow this principle myself. The broader context of interpolation, however, seems important to me. This interpolation has no basis in writing, in any case. This interpretation is based on the assumption that there is no basis, in fact, for what you said today. I already told the media that you're doing a pear job for someone. I'll be a little more specific in the end. Of course, this interpretation is not the last, it is a very broader context of events, a much broader context of events in society, some of them are aware of this, especially you, some of them do not realize it, of course. The details of your action will be revealed in the future. The course of events of both referendums, but a very precise course of events. First, let's look at the time frame. First time, 10. 10. a request was made. Since procedures were under way in the State Council, the matter was postponed until the second time you voted both laws in the National Assembly. 23. Ten. That's what happened in 2012. This is therefore the beginning of the deadline for setting the time limit for collecting signatures. 23. 10th, one marriage something before 19, one marriage something 20 hours ago. 30. 10. However, the time limit laid down by the law for the commencement of signatures or the notification by the President of the National Assembly to the applicants. In particular, at 6:46 a.m., you voted holding, second by veto, and at 7:49 a.m., you voted a bad bank. I refer to some facts which, of course, do not mean accusing the National Assembly or the employees of the National Assembly, but they are facts that you have deliberately overlooked. 23. Ten o'clock in the evening, no later than 7:49 p.m., the arms begin to flow and 23rd nothing happens. 24. 10. We did not receive this from the National Assembly and 25. We got 10 o'clock at 12.28. I don't accuse workers in the National Assembly, but it's been 39 or 40 hours since the marriage deadlines ran and it didn't come to the Ministry of the Interior. But it's all right. The legal period should be respected. Today you're pushing me to the cross that we needed 25 or 26 hours to deliver the answer, but you're totally overlooking the fact that 29 or 40 hours after the second vote, so on the veto, we got the case, but that suits you. I believe that no one, not the National Assembly of 39, 40 hours, and 25 and 26 hours did not violate the marriage deadline. We must respect the laws and we must respect the Constitution and not comply with the wishes of Positive Slovenia. 26. Ten. 2012, Friday, so MNZ No., before that, 24. Wednesday – nothing, 25. at 12.28 we received the matter. After days or periods like this: 26. 10., this is Friday, the MNZ closes the holding and submits a report to the National Assembly. The report is signed by the Secretary of State because I was not in Ljubljana. And you have nothing to say to her because this is her legal right, but I told you myself where I was all day and not like you say I was just at some assembly of administrative workers. However, he also starts to check the MNZ for a bad bank, not end the controls. You immediately, of course maliciously, said that it was a matter of four or five days. You know, the calendar has to be looked at. If I know anything, Saturday and Sunday, the 27th and the 28th were Saturdays and Sundays, and then it's a slightly clearer picture, not that it traveled four or five days from the Ministry back to the National Assembly. In addition, it is not 150 meters away, but it is important to know that there are many more between the National Assembly and the Ministry — several miles — that is, we are in Litostroski, and nothing else, and we are checking in Beethoven, that is true. So the 27th and the 28th are Saturdays and Sundays, and you just added 48 hours together because it suits you. 29.10. is Monday. The MNZ also completes the control of the bad bank. I will sign the answer myself – in the following exact hours and minutes, if you wish. 30. Ten. 2012 the matter comes to the National Assembly at 2.26 p.m. — that is, the marriage period is respected! The marriage deadline is seven days. No one can force either the National Assembly or the Ministry of the Interior to carry out the tasks earlier. Why, therefore, we have a law in which the deadlines that have been fully respected are all your imagination. So if I'm trying to continue now, again without reading, I'm stressing that there's not gonna be anything wrong. It's been 39 or 40 hours, depending on how you round the minutes and how you count the vote on one and the other veto that we've received it. But we received the matter — how? Because you used these numbers, these books, and so on. The exact explanation is as follows. We received the case electronically without attachments to the main department drawer on Stefano 2, under the number indicated here, bad bank, and under the number mentioned above, holding, so we wrote the matters. At the same time, the initiative came to the Ministry of the Interior in Beethoven, in physical form, with letters and annexes in two separate envelopes. We've been writing them, once again, into the system because we're also on Beethoven's books. Time delay – that is why things are in two numbers – the time delay of one hour does not detect the system. However, it took just under an hour to write in Beethoven and to write at the Ministry of Stefano II. So that's why you're double-booking. And I'm not going to take any chances on this subject below. Interpellation is therefore based on delay. But I warn you, since my signature, it's been 29. Ten. 2012 until delivery to the National Assembly 30. Ten. 2012 25 and 26 hours passed. That's right. It is also true that 39 hours or 40 hours have passed since the National Assembly. You've been reading to me for 25 hours, not the National Assembly, because that suits you – doesn't it? And I don't tell anyone, because it's all within the marriage. The laws, not your will, or your wishes, must be respected. Let's keep looking. Here is also an interesting statement by Dr. Pirnat, on which you based even the interpretation. He says I should immediately and immediately and immediately and immediately! [[...]] Have Dr. Pirnat use the same criteria for the National Assembly, and he'll be fine. As long as Dr. Pirnat uses double criteria, and this criterion "immediately and immediately" applies to the Ministry and not to the National Assembly – I don't know whether he has the data or not, I have no idea; but he has my phone number, he could call and ask – then he's probably either on the side of someone or he's getting a little carried away. This, of course, is not again an accusation by the National Assembly or the Service of the National Assembly, because I stress once again: the matter "suddenly" applies to all participants or none; it is a seven-day marriage period and this is important, respected by both sides. Checking the signatures on the holding company, let's go over the details. So: name, surname, birth date, address, which confirms election rights. If we don't confirm it, then the correctness of the signature is not recognized. Telegraphically, not to miss the deadlines available to me, the holding check – two initiatives have never been submitted at the same time. The Head shall distribute the cases to 24 public servants. We start checking the case at 12:57. I'm talking about holding. It's over at 3:30. 26. 10. The leader makes a check, prepares a response, the number is visible on the screen, makes a print screen at 11.01 and the matter is referred to Litostorska, where the matter is signed for the reasons already stated by the Secretary of State. The findings are as follows: 2 000 543 are valid signatures and again – look at the fragment! You're telling me we haven't returned 104 sheets. Let's try to be objective. When the signatures are enough, in this case there are 2,000 543, we stop counting. We don't bring things back to the National Assembly, we archive it. So I reject the obvious that anything is wrong with these 104 leaves. You can come and see them in the archive, no problem where the legal condition is reached. Checking bad bank signatures like this. 25. 10. Individual employees, this is Thursday, end the holding company check. The leader of 12 of them also distributes letters about a bad bank. And on the same day, 722 signatures have been checked, and then the work hours are over. But they worked about an hour and a half longer than they had to. 26. 10. the check continues, the work is carried out by 26 staff members, i.e. a total of 28 in both days. The verification is completed at 15.39. It's made by a famous print screen with which Youth and you prove guilty. I'll point out, 26. Ten o'clock at 15.39! There is also a report, the number is on the screens: we received and checked 271 sheets – you claimed 307. You can say something else, but I'm talking about facts. We checked everything. We've listed 2 thousand 346 suitable signatures. In response later, I can say more — minors are not entitled, foreigners are not allowed, and so on. 6. At 2.45 p.m., the President of the National Assembly informed me that there was a difference between the originals and what they had received back. The National Assembly – 36 pages missing. At about 3: 30 p.m., I signed the control decision, and at 3: 30 p.m., the National Assembly had already announced that they had been given complete control. At 6 p.m. the Council on Channel A – look at the fraction – says: "Gorenak found 36 missing signatures. Will he give up?" Unbelievable! But we started the investigation the next day. Why is that? That's when I asked the Council on Channel A to put me on the air and they did, and I explained it. Re-checking signatures – 7. 11. Seven. 11. we received from the National Assembly to verify the referendum on the bad bank 307 sheets. DZ numbers the leaves, so he's already acting in a different way. We accept the matter with a record and we count, we count, and everything is fine. So another practice on both institutions – here and there. 9. At 10:54 p.m., we answer that the real signatures are 2 000 653. The parallel control of the copies of the 26th and 30th and the newly arrived leaves shows us – here I was counting on where two sheets could go to the photocopying machine, where they could pull in, but that doesn't show. Comparative control shows that the comparison between 271 and 307 shows that the leaves between 14 and 24, 107, 119 and 296 to 307 disappeared. They're gone. Now I'd still be trying to answer a few other questions. Deliberate delay in the case of a bad bank. I signed the 29th. 10 o'clock. This is also noted by all three institutions, including the anti-corruption commission. Of course, the answer doesn't travel 150 meters, you can paint people, but it doesn't. From Lithostrojska do Štefanovo, it is a few kilometers away because it is located in Šiška, Beethoven, or Stephanov. And then – the National Assembly. On the same day, we are making electoral lists for the DKP and the presidential elections. There's a matter in D.C. after 2:00. 10; therefore, within the legal period. I reject your findings and Dr. Pirnat's findings of "immediately." So 25 hours of suspected delay. What happened in the National Assembly, however, is of no interest to the candidates or that we have received so much and so much later, but everything is within the limits of marriage, both on the DZ side and on the Ministry’s side. So it's a matter of sufficient objectivity both to you and to the others. Now for the specifics. Allegedly, 104 leaves have disappeared. I told you, they're available to you, you can see in the archive, not here more than 150 meters away, but in Litostroski, there's a new seat. There's another case with these signatures. When there was a request for a referendum on the Family Code in the National Assembly, Aleš Primc collected over 32 thousand signatures. 32 thousand signatures! Or are they supposed to count 32 thousand signatures if the marriage number is 2 thousand 500?Oh, my God! Even in that case, the National Assembly took just one bang, we'll say, by domestic signatures, some over 3 thousand 500, sent to the Ministry of the Interior, when we listed 2 thousand 500 and something that is the legal condition, we stopped counting. That's normal! Also, it is normal that the National Assembly did not send everything. Why would we do that?Oh, my God! The goal is 2,000 500 signatures, that's fine. And that's the legal condition! So, the apparent disappearance of 36 letters with bad bank signatures is not true. The investigation did not show that we had accepted 307 lists, which was found by the applicant's investigation, but not by three independent institutions. This is not what independent institutions have said. That's what you say. Why the answer to the holding was signed by the Secretary of State and not by me, I told you. You have information of a public nature about my business paths and obligations, of course you have tailored yourself to what suits you. Among the copies of the bad bank were two lists of holding companies. Yes, it is. But that's how we got from DZ! And not once! Two times: 25 was like that, and 7 was like that. No, but it's the Ministry of the Interior's fault! Don't hold it! I'm supposed to have appointed two staff members to the inside. Look, all you have to do is explain to the public that you're simply manipulating. The leader was a long-standing police supervisor who oversees the most demanding police procedures, including covert investigative measures. He has the conditions for retirement and has never been a politician and has never been employed anywhere other than the police. There were two police officers inside, computer science with all the knowledge of computer crime. There was a public servant from the Public Prosecutor's Office. You missed this, so it wasn't – to paint the public. But you're talking about two people to trust – don't hold! Don't hold it. It's one employee who's on my trust, and he was a cop. You say that the police have examined seven of the officers selected, not 28. You know, a man would expect you to at least read all the papers before you shake an empty straw. It's not working. Of course, you were looking at the recording on the first day, not the final report. Take a look at the final report and you will see very clearly that you have reviewed the work of all 28 employees on the computer. Which means what? That the first day they reviewed what you say, and then before the final report they examined the traceability of every employee. Every employee he checked. They checked that out. And the anti-corruption commission also knows that. The surveillance team only spoke to five of them. Look at the fragment! What about 23 official signs? You didn't see that. Even in the National Assembly, people expressed their views on this with an official banner. You're admitting this to the National Assembly, but not to me. Unbelievable! The Ministry of Internal Affairs has carried out only internal controls, which you have now repaired and you have not told the public what you wrote. The Ministry of Internal Oversight and Public Administration Inspectorate, you wrote in the interpretation. That's not true! Even at the time when you wrote the interpretation – of course, superficially, as we can see, we had, like the National Assembly of 4 institutions: the Information Commissioner, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Criminalist in addition to the administrative inspection. So far, the institution's findings: the information officer has a final report, the administrative inspection has issued a final report, and yesterday, the anti-corruption commission, the criminals have not completed their work. The information officer states that, due to the lack of traceability of personal data on the DZ side and on the MNZ side, it was not possible to establish in the procedure where the error occurred to the Authority the disappearance of 36 bad bank signatures. So the information officer didn't find out. Then the Information Commissioner is counting on one side of the National Assembly and on the other side is counting on us. And he says that DZ didn't register accepted bad bank signatures, the MNZ didn't register accepted bad bank signatures. It's both of them. The information officer shall also state in such a way that neither objectively nor subjectively can be found guilty. That's what the information officer says, not me. The administrative inspection does the same again – for the first time, the MNZ has not recorded the number of annexes. The same applies to DZ. But the MNZ issued mandatory guidelines, and so on, in DZ, because they have no jurisdiction, but they made recommendations. But the contents are similar somewhere. Tell me, of course, that I must inform all the employees of the proper business, that I must take care of the proper business, that I must inform the administrative inspection of what we have done and inform you, 13. 12. we have carried out administrative inspection measures in full. The anti-corruption commission, however, says this: this report is now final, as you know. It was published yesterday. The Anti-Corruption Commission also reduces both institutions. In the part where I do not agree and why I do not agree with the Commission to prevent corruption, I will say. The Commission says that it is not possible to determine which authority has lost its signatures. This is what you found in Positive Slovenia, there is no Commission to prevent corruption. No institution can prove that it has not lost its signatures. That's what the commission says. The Commission did not find any indication of the loss of signature sheets in either institution. Well, the commission says there's no subjective responsibility. And now the Commission is fairly evenly reducing both the business in the National Assembly and in our country. He says this — on the side of the National Assembly, the Commission says that the signatures of the takeover were not counted and recorded in the correct manner. It further states that the staff did not comply with the registration instructions. DZ services have not acted with sufficient care – you have overlooked all or have, perhaps every other, third letter of the Commission. No DZ staff member who handled the signatures counted the signatures. And what you read to me, two signatures for holding were among the bad banks. Twice. And go ahead. Of course, at this point, the Commission does not issue 39 or 40 hours of travel to MNZ to prevent corruption. It's not a problem. What are you trying to tell us? The following things are obvious to us: the signatures of the takeover have not been recalculated and have not been properly recorded — this is the same as the National Assembly. Staff members did not comply with the registration instructions. That's what they're telling us. The DZ services have not acted with sufficient care, I apologize – the MNZ services have not acted with sufficient care. No MNZ official who handled the signature lists counted them. The signatures were inadequately secured. These are our eyewitnesses. Surely someone will draw out that interim report; the interim report has burdened us or has tried to burden us with four persons who have been vetted 7; that is, after the second send that we have already checked them 25 and 26. The Commission wrote in its interim report that this indicates that the leaves could be lost in the MNZ. We gave the Commission an answer, where we said – i.e. the interim report – that in three cases the search was done after the birthday. In fact, when a staff member is unable to determine because of the readability of the last name written on his hand, he goes into the system after his birth date and falls out 40, 50 persons who are born that day. That's logical, and that's why it happened that we found the real seven. In one case, however, it was the request of the data transfer lawyer, and the Commission acknowledged this as an appropriate argument that there were no errors at this point. Where do I not agree with the Commission to prevent corruption? But this is what the minister knew about the missing signatures on Friday. And then what? And then what? I have a right to know what employees do. Monday was just a check-up. And what's wrong with that? Thank you so much with that eye! In order for the late afternoon leader to decide Namreč, the leader decided to control, between Saturday and Sunday, and the checkup was 29. [[...]] The Commission recognises this, but it is problematic. During the signing of the Minister and the delivery of the report to the National Assembly, it took 25, 26 hours, depending on the number of minutes. The Commission says that it is unacceptable; the Minister must at least apologize; he must consider taking responsibility. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the committee! When you have a meter that has 100 centimeters for all sides, that can happen. I don't have any problems; four times, five times a day, I can say, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry," and so on. No problem! No problem, but the meter has to be the same for everyone! What about the others, I said. Criminal investigation. Don't hold what you've been saying about the D.A.'s direction, and the Minister can't know anything. Take a look at the decision of the Constitutional Court, and you'll see what time it is, and some more legal opinions, and you'll see. Initially, a criminal investigation took place without directing prosecutors with these signatures, and then it was taken over – a criminal investigation. The fact that I announced publicly that the matter would begin in the National Assembly makes sense, as if the day had twenty-four hours. Why? Any criminal investigation of any act begins at the beginning and probably not at the end. What's wrong with that?Oh, my God! And that; guidance and control are allowed in 2. a, b., c., no. article with restriction when the prosecutor takes over the matter that I can no longer take the lead. I don't do that either. In this case, I have not issued any written or oral or any guidance, nor have I requested any reports from the police. However, I have issued a very clear request to the services to cooperate with the criminal police as much as possible and to give them all the information they need. Now, you didn't mention this, but I will say "Signature Investigation" and "Criminal Police", which will still be the subject of Mrs Zupevcheveva's trial. [[...]] [[...]] Mrs. Zupevcheva obviously has no status as a suspect, but she has the status of a witness – what else? So it was assumed that someone had forged her signature. Then why should I apologize? Then I can apologize to a few hundred thousand witnesses in the proceedings. But if I were to direct the police, maybe I'd find something else, but she didn't find it, but she did her job objectively. Investigation of other signatures: legal basis – anonymous application and of course 21. 11. Mr. Head of the Positive Slovenia Group, as you manipulated my trip to Maribor, you also manipulated this and the Slovenian public must know this. 21. 11. The criminalist of the Ljubljana Police Administration called your parliamentary group. And what happened? You weren't there. That's why you called her back at 11:15. Your conversation is next. Can I come — or can I check this and that. You said today, not that it won't work today, but you'll agree. That's why she left you a phone number so you could call her, so that you could make a deal anywhere and at any time to get this job done. 12.58 – You call a criminalist and ask her to come to the National Assembly immediately in the next 20 minutes. You ask her to come to the National Assembly in the next 20 minutes! Step for this booth or get out of your chair and say, "We have a criminal investigation! My parliamentary group cannot participate in the work of the National Assembly." Look, for the first time in your life, you've acted like a child, you've acted rudely, you've also made a name for yourself abroad in the National Assembly. You had every chance to say he wasn't coming. You had every opportunity not to come and to agree on any other date; so you misused her trust. In fact, foreign media have also reported this if you have not noticed. The DA's office, yes, that's interesting. [[...]] The Constitutional Law Society had one debate last time on Parliament's autonomy and the functioning of the police, referring to these events, very well-known constitutional lawyers from Dr. Ribičič further and so on and so on. But, look, a man would expect, let's say that in the event of an incident like this, someone else would be invited in the case of this thing that you've been dealing with, let's say, the Director General of Police and so on, because you've been discussing the police. But you were there as active participants, of course, Members of Positive Slovenia, because you have to do what you have to do. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! I take the minister's office seriously and responsibly. That way, I try to do my job to the best of my ability, and that's how it's gonna stay. We live in a very crucial time for this country, and one interpretation against me is irrelevant. I would also expect responsible actions from Positive Slovenia, but unfortunately that is not the case. This interpolation has no indication of responsible conduct, but you have this right. The fact is that 36 letters of signature for the invitation to tender for a bad bank referendum have disappeared. The fact is, we do not know whether we are in the National Assembly or the Ministry of the Interior. The fact is that the originals were insured in the National Assembly, so that no real loss or damage to the applicants could occur. The fact is that any damage was prevented for the initiators of the referendum – this was prevented by the National Assembly with originals. The fact is, the investigating authorities haven't done their work yet, I mean the police. The fact is, I've never had any signatures in my hands, and I haven't seen them. With 9,000 500 employees, you can probably imagine what an individual minister can do. If there's such a pyramid at the top, then he can deal with the directorates of the directorates, not the number of signatures. The fact is that it can only be a mistake of subordinates — either in the National Assembly or with us — and it cannot be a subjective responsibility of either one and not of the other. The fact is, we don't know if the signatures went missing for those at DZ or those at MNZ employees. We don't know! The fact is, there's no evidence to suggest that you're condemning anything but me. The fact is, this interpellation doesn't upset me, I'm an insignificant person, a very insignificant person. The fact is, you're tearing down the government. The fact is that this interpolation is part of a broader process that is still going on, and the fact is that its background will show the time that is coming. The fact is, it wasn't a violation of the Constitution, not a violation of the law. Whether I will experience and monitor this time as a minister or as a Member, it is a completely irrelevant thing. This, of course, will be decided by you in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! On 14 November 2011, the Minister tweeted that a subordinate as a young leader said, "You are allowed to do everything you see me doing." And we're gonna be watching this all day, and I hope there's someone else. We may even see what the Counter-Corruption Commission wrote in the final report at the end of the conclusions what happened in the National Assembly or with the initiative to call for a referendum would be required. They say this: an apology to the affected instigators, voters, voters and the public. Secondly, a more active and frank effort to identify and address the causes of this harmful situation and to be ready to recognise and accept responsibility and to take responsibility for the consequences. And now allow me to present the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats on the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak. The Group of Social Democrats supported the interpellation submitted by the Group of Members and Members of Positive Slovenia with the first signed Janije Möderndorfer. The President of the Government recently stated in Brussels that interpellation against Gorenak does not have a legal basis. I state: "This interpretation does not have any legal basis; interpellation after a stop can be filed against a minister who has violated the Constitution or the law. In the case referred to by this interpolation, neither happened nor did it happen, so I expect that there will be no vote after the debate and the explanations which will be added." Apparently, the Prime Minister of the Government was referring to the charges against the Prime Minister and the ministers. Article 119 of the Constitution allows the National Assembly to bring charges before the Constitutional Court of the President of the Government and ministers of violations of the Constitution and of the laws committed in the performance of their functions. Interpellation is governed by Article 118 of the Constitution, which states: at least 10 Members may initiate interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. Neither the written reply of Minister Gorenak nor the internal controls carried out at the Ministry of the Interior have swayed us in the belief that the Minister is objectively responsible for impermissible conduct in verifying signatures under the initiative to call for a subsequent legislative referendum submitted by the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries – I will also use the short-term – on the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks – and here I will also talk about a bad bank. The whole new dimension of the issue of the Minister's objectivity comes from the conclusions of the Commission's final report on anti-corruption. In my opinion, I will not refer to the opinion of the information officer and the public sector inspection, because they have investigated and dealt mainly with what could be said to be a black hole, because the lost leaves could not be found and therefore there is nothing to be found about. They only found out because there were verified signatures. Therefore, as the final report is newer, I will refer to it. At the initiative of the President of the National Assembly, the Supervisory and Investigation Service of this Commission identified the actual situation and circumstances of the handling procedure with the initiative of the KNG Trade Union. Thus, both chairpersons had been familiar with the findings since 3 December and had the opportunity to provide written explanations. We didn't realize that Minister Gorenak was going to step down, even though he mentioned this possibility at first. The protection of the President of the Government will not, however, be sustained, as it is clear from the final report that three laws, namely the Personal Data Protection Act, the Referendum and Human Initiative Act and the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, have been violated in the handling of material at the Ministry of the Interior. Since the Minister is directly in charge of the Directorate of Internal Affairs, Migration and Naturalization, and he was to do so with this material, and what he was talking about when he presented himself for the Minister, I will read out this magnetogram: "Administrative Home Affairs – nothing special. I will certainly be interested in the implementation of the law of so-called deleted – I have no data on the situation today; migration, naturalisation – I have said in part, also an important area. I would skip the so-called secretariat, here the matter is arranged so that all these services are logistically covered here, mainly given under the auspices of the Secretariat and the Minister of the Interior." So, directly under the Minister of the Interior. Apparently, he didn't see any problem in that part at the time. That is why his objective responsibility is justified by the reason for his resignation or discharge. In determining objective responsibility, I refer to Dr. Mir Cerar's opinion, and I state in my article on subjective and objective responsibility that these two are intertwined in many ways, but we claim only objective responsibility, so I will stop only with this one. "In objective terms, the Minister shall be politically responsible for any act or event resulting from the conduct of entities directly in charge of them, the various employees of the Ministry and so on, and in a broader sense shall also be responsible for any political conduct or event belonging to a formal or informal network of entities and institutions that are part of the political and legal field of the Ministry or the Minister. An objective responsibility, some also call it a hierarchical responsibility, is therefore responsible for the consequences without the direct fault of the responsible person, i.e. the minister. A particularly broad aspect of this responsibility is, in fact, extremely strict to the Minister, because it may be very far away from him, for example, an irregularity may be committed by a dislocated smaller unit of the Ministry or even by an external contractor who has been chosen to cooperate with the Ministry", the end of the line. I could now quote from the same article also foreign experts as to how they see objective responsibility, but, as it is said, this explains why in the parliamentary group we believe that Minister Gorenak is objectively responsible for what happened at the Ministry. The final report of the Anti-Corruption Commission is accompanied by a chronology of events as identified by the Commission's Monitoring and Investigations Service for the Prevention of Corruption and covers 41 events with 25 notes. This all explains what has happened since the introduction of the initiative until the conclusion of the procedure. It is this part that we rely on our belief that there has been unacceptable conduct in the handling of material that does not comply with legal provisions. I quote from the Commission's opinion: "The whole process of managing and operating in the verification of signatories in the register of electoral rights at the Ministry of the Interior is taking into account the legal and factual situation established, receipt, recording, handling, handling, handling, handling, storage, insurance, intervention, according to the findings of the Commission charged with infringements of the Regulation on Administrative Affairs, instructions on the management and management of documentary material, as well as the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and on the basis of its internal acts of the Ministry of the Interior which regulate and provide organisational and technical measures for the protection and protection of personal data and of infringements on the confidentiality of data under the Law on Referendum and Electoral Rights." If the brother had gone through all the notes and followed the events recorded, they would have found that the fundamental breach was the provision of access to sensitive material at the table of the responsible or authorised public servant. This material was unprotected on the table, in an unlocked space at a time when more persons were detected in the room in spite of Friday afternoon. So this is what we rely on with objective responsibility and where, even if you allow it, it is different than it was in the National Assembly. The Commission notes in the National Assembly: "The Commission notes, on the other hand, that in the National Assembly, the storage and insurance of physical initiatives and accompanying lists, signatures and personal data of electorates and voters were carried out appropriately and does not constitute a risk factor that could result in the loss or removal of missing documents." Here's the catchment area for the difference I'm talking about. I would also like to draw attention to what follows from the report of the Anti-Corruption Commission that the conduct of the competent authorities in view of the importance of constitutional rights related to referendum initiatives is unacceptable and also constitutes a violation of the expected integrity required by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, as it may have a direct impact on the possibility, the inability to effectively exercise the right of voters and voters to a legislative referendum. And there is no question of how many meters are from what institution to another, how long has it traveled, but I would like to point out the explicit recommendation of the President of the National Assembly that he expects conclusions from the Ministry by Monday 29. The Minister of the Interior was aware of what the signature review showed on Friday. From all the material that can be read, it can be found that it was not the only one who knew that these persons were large and took from Friday afternoon until Tuesday afternoon, that the official document came to the National Assembly at a time when the applicants of the initiative had no opportunity to supplement the missing signatures, which, despite all that was sufficient, was subsequently found. I would like to point out how much harassment has been heard when a referendum on State holding was tabled because Members have tabled it just before the official expiry of the deadline. Now we have heard that there is a need to respect the prescribed time limit. This is true, but whether it has been possible for investors to complete the initiative is another issue. And here, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I must express my satisfaction that the President of the National Assembly has decided to extend his term afterwards, although he did not, as some have warned, have a real basis in any kind of legislation, but nevertheless. The report of the Anti-Corruption Commission, of course, ends with a question or a reference to the need for serious consideration of the possible objective responsibility of public officials, as the decision states: "The Commission finds that the whole complication of the lost missing documents with the signatures of the electorate and the electorate for the initiative to launch the legislative referendum is not due to the absence of appropriate rules for the management and management of documentary material, but mainly to the repeated disregard and inconsistent implementation of the existing rules on the protection of personal data and the rules and regulations governing administrative and office business procedures. It is also due to the insufficient care of public servants of the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior in handling and dealing with the referendum initiative in question. As a result, both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior could not and cannot demonstrate with certainty or conviction that the loss or removal of 36 letters of signature and personal data by 307 voters and voters of the referendum initiative did not take place in the National Assembly or the Ministry of the Interior. However, the supervisory authorities, such as the Information Officer and the Commission, cannot fully establish the actual situation, which is unacceptable in the light of the fact that the rules on office operations have also been adopted in order to reconstruct the events. This was not merely a result of the threat to the realization of the constitutionally guaranteed and the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative of the Specific Right of Citizens to the Legislative Referendum, but mainly contributed to the inclusion in the history of Slovenian constitutional democracy of another unresolved affair, thereby further weakening the integrity and confidence in the expertise and correct functioning of both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior." And nothing helps if officials in the highest places say that losing leaves is scandalous, if then on other occasions they talk about exotic blockades that make them referendum. Any referendum shall be a constitutional right of citizens and citizens. When I conclude my support for the request for a vote on responsibility and thus the proposed discharge for Minister Vinko Gorenak, I would also like to say that the Minister on his tweet also said: "If Positive Slovenia is tomorrow," that was on November 13th, "interpellation has been filed against me, I am very pleased. Two hours of my TV show is big." Well, I am not so sure that we are sending positive messages from the Slovenian National Assembly to the public about what happened. If we are so eager to insist that everything was fine and well and fine and petty, we list the hours and minutes that were done at any time, and ignore the fact that the anti-corruption commission in its final report finds that internal control, which Minister Vinko Gorenak very quickly took care of, has not carried out a comprehensive and sufficiently thorough examination, from which we can safely claim that there has been no mismanagement of the material. May Minister Gorenak be so pleased with the speed of his reply as well as with the nineteen-fold assurance that he rejects the guilt, they cannot resist what the independent authorities have been able to come up with with with a thorough review of the fact that there has been a violation of three laws in the handling of the material. Therefore, as we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the request for the discharge of Minister Gorenak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u8	Dear President, Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State! Dear fellows! You know, the Civil Code does not judge the responsibility of an individual solely on the basis of assumptions. We expect and demand that all the facts related to the photocopying of the referendum signatures be thoroughly and definitively investigated. The Civil Code shall always be decided on the basis of facts and evidence. In the present case, it is crucial that the President of the National Assembly immediately discovers and corrects the error and thereby secures the constitutional right to referenda and apologizes to the initiators. Yesterday afternoon we received a report and the Commission's findings on anti-corruption, which summarises the known legal and factual situation and notes that it is more likely, but not certain, that the removal or loss of photocopies of signatures occurred at the Ministry of the Interior. The Anti-Corruption Commission also assesses that the Ministry and the Ministry, as an institution, have acted against the expected integrity due to obvious systemic and concrete shortcomings in the business of the initiative in question and due to unreasonable delays in the submission of revised signatures to the verification and signature of the Minister and the opening of the signed report in the National Assembly. That's what the commission finds. In its report, the Commission makes recommendations to the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior on how to deal with the complication of photocopies of referendum signatures. In the Civil Gazette, we have heard an important part of the explanations already in the Minister's opening act. We will also listen carefully to the other arguments in the discussion below, which will serve as a basis for our decision on interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Ms Jasmina Opec will give an opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! More than 20 years ago, the Slovenian People's Party actively participated in the establishment of a democratic system in the Republic of Slovenia and in the formation of a fundamental act of our country, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. With special respect for the foundations of our democracy, we have always sought to ensure consistent implementation of constitutional provisions, laws and democratic values in the Slovenian People's Party. These certainly include the referendum as the most important form of direct democracy, through which voters directly decide on an individual legal act or on another issue which is important for the social community and which must be used with care and with particular attention in cases where this is socially justified. The news of the allegedly missing signatures for the submission of a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks was shaken by members of the Slovenian People's Party. We were personally affected by the possibility of doubting democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. We have been asked thousands of questions, so we have followed with particular attention all the procedures of the various institutions that have been working on clarifying the situation. Unfortunately, none of these institutions have provided a clear, decisive and concrete response to the course of events; an answer based on clear facts and evidence. For this reason, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have examined with particular care the particulars provided by the drafter of the interpretation in his proposal, as well as the answers to the statements provided by the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Since the claims of the interpolation were not supported by any evidence, as is the case in the modern, legal and democratic system, but were mere conjectures, we helped in our definition Members of the Slovenian People's Party with our own experiences in the past with the work of the ministries, with knowledge of the functioning of the executive and legislative branches of government, and in all this followed the fundamental principles of the legal and democratic system. The indications in the interpolation and in the response presented the timing of the verification of signatures and the comparison with the procedures for verifying signatures in similar cases have reinforced in us the conviction that the verification of signatures in this process has been carried out in accordance with established practice. An additional argument to our conviction about the correct and correct implementation of the signature verification procedure is given the additional diligence of employees with regard to the removal and clarification of any doubts as to the authenticity of signatures, since she is a competent public servant at the Ministry after it was clear that the signatures were not sufficient, she re-checked all the signature checks already to prevent any errors due to non-readability of signatures. Allegedly lost signatures to apply for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks have stopped our thought in the process of handling signatures with a practice that has been in force in our system for many years. It is stated that no one counts or reviews the annexes, since the system is supposed to function on trust, leads us to conclude that practice and the actual situation, actual events only show in time whether certain administrative procedures are effective and sufficient. If they are not, they are expected to be corrected accordingly. Let us express our satisfaction at this point that inadequate procedures have already been put in place at the time of the adoption of the signatures in the National Assembly and that appropriate mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that such events will no longer occur in the future. Members of the Slovenian People's Party understand the possibility of the parliamentary opposition to initiate, in accordance with Article 118 of the Constitution, an interpretation of the work of an individual minister, the right to control the majority and to place a mirror on the government and ministers. However, any such proposal which interferes with the integrity of the individual minister and autonomy in the exercise of his duties and powers must have reasonable grounds and evidence to show that the Minister has exceeded the powers or infringed the law and not merely abstract claims without a basis of proof. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the indications in the proposal for interpretation are without the basis of evidence for the political responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, so we will not support the proposal for a decision to dismiss the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We awaited it – the first interpretation of the work and responsibility of any minister of the current government. A number of them were in the air and this work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gorenak, was realized. I will not explain to investors what prompted the decision to interpel, for I am sure that we all know the reasons and will certainly hear them a few more times today. At the same time, I am sure that everything else will be discussed today, the lost and found signatures under the referendum initiative, and the law for the rehabilitation of banks probably the least. Still, I can't get past the obvious. The fact is, the signatures were lost and then found again. This sudden disappearance and appearance of signatures are being investigated by all the possible authorities, which you can imagine – the administrative inspectorate, the anti-corruption commission, criminals and, last but not least, the information officer. From its office, it was reported that in the inspection they could not even identify the reason for the missing signatures under the referendum initiative on the RS Act of measures to strengthen the stability of banks, nor whether the signatures disappeared on purpose. However, in the Office of Commissioners, it was found that both in the National Assembly and in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they did not deal with the documentation carefully enough, with confidential personal data. The findings of the authorised office shall also be accepted by the majority of the DeSUS Members and Members of the DeSUS Group. According to our assessment, we have witnessed a typical phenomenon, where certain behavior occurs after 20 years and over, and as long as all is well, the shortcomings are not identified. If signatures did not disappear, they would probably be treated in the same way for another 20 years or more. However, since this incident occurred, such irresponsible handling of personal data and procedures for receiving and transmitting signatures should be discontinued, different rules should be defined, a more consistent way of doing business and so on. Most Members and Members of the DeSUS Interpellation Group will not support this. It is true that you should not be able to afford such a failure, either in the National Assembly or in the Ministry of the Interior. However, in this case, after assessing the majority of the members of our Group of Members for such negligence, which can be prevented by the consistent implementation of clear and precise instructions, and by no means by the recall of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u14	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! More amazingly today we are doing something that people have clearly told us not to do. We will accuse each other for about 18 hours and find out who is more responsible for the situation. But the fact is that the interpretation before us is based on suspicions and that there is no serious evidence of guilt. And that the measure will be even more full: the evidence will probably never be. Of course, we have a problem; the undeniable fact is that signatures are lost! It is also incontrovertible — and many have also found — that the culprit will be impossible to prove. Why not? Because there were no pre-delivery records in this procedure, things were in the air. You have a union that has brought a number of signatures to Parliament. These signatures are not listed. Even the union did not know the number of signatures due to time constraints, so it also said on their application: more than 2 000 500 signatures and the applicants simply said freely at the time they were investing, they did not know the exact number of signatures. They didn't do it until later. When the National Assembly copied these signatures, these photocopies were also not recalculated and when the photographs were delivered to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior did not count them either. When the Ministry of the Interior counts copies, it is simply found that the number does not match. This is a unique basis for all conspiracy theories; here you can have a few theories of conspiracy that could be potential. For example, if I start first, the Ministry of the Interior will intentionally lose its signatures – because Mr Gorenak wants to prevent the referendum. That's one conspiracy theory. The second theory of conspiracy can be that the National Assembly simply copies fewer signatures because Mr Virant also wants to prevent a referendum. This is also a possible conspiracy theory and it is all part of how to prevent a referendum. But you also have some conspiracy theories that talk about sabotages; that at the Ministry of the Interior someone deliberately sabotages the count because he wants to harm Interior Minister Gorenak. Then you also have conspiracy theories that talk about working in the National Assembly when someone deliberately sabotages the photocopying of these signatures because he wants to harm the President of the National Assembly. Then you have an even more incredible conspiracy theory that tells you that in the National Assembly someone will later deliver the original signatures because he wants the union to have enough signatures and that the referendum will come. This conspiracy theory is also possible because the union, when it gave a formal role, did not write a clear number of these signatures. Why am I telling you these things, and why are many smiling? Because that's what we're talking about today. We're talking about stories without evidence. And in the end, as I have written very soon to my fellow Member from the opposition; what if this is a completely normal technical error, which is not the fault of Minister Gorenak and not the President of the National Assembly, Mr Virant. Something like this or in this direction has been identified by all the competent institutions that have so far spoken about this topic. It was more or less a matter of finding that the perpetrator could not determine that there was no evidence to establish the perpetrator, but that there were no signatures and that there was obviously something wrong with the procedure itself. Of course, not the signatures themselves have been lost, but I am talking about that any fault on either side is simply impossible to prove because of the lack of records and procedures. It's undeniable that the guilt won't be proven. The question is whether we will condemn a man without evidence; Positive Slovenia says: yes, New Slovenia says: no, because there is no evidence. It is also undeniable that signatures have been lost and that someone should assume objective responsibility for this, as is true of the opposition. In New Slovenia, we say that if this person knew and did not act, then absolutely, but as you know, both the Minister and the President of the National Assembly acted, the referendum would be, or should be, if not prevented by the Constitutional Court. So the democratic institution was not disabled. If the Constitutional Court so decides, a referendum can be reached. If we find out what interest Mr Virant and Mr Gorenak could have had in order to lose their signatures, this is relatively clear and clear for the opposition, that is to prevent a referendum. However, in Novi Slovenija and I doubt that she would be so naive. Why? If that were true, then why would the President of the National Assembly order a re-investigation and recalculation, a review of the originals and so on. Why would Minister Gorenak order "loss of signatures" if he knew the originals existed. It would be a very naive thing to do if someone deliberately did it in the fact that they know that they count copies and the originals exist elsewhere. According to our assessment, they both acted in such a way that they made a mistake and, as I said, the referendum could be reached. Since there is no evidence, we will not support this interpretation in New Slovenia. However, in this whole story, one of us seems to be relatively dangerous; this is that in such a tense atmosphere, without any evidence, it deliberately creates the impression that someone has stolen these signatures. To talk about stealing, about intent to lose these signatures without being able to prove it and know it. Once again, what if it was an innocent, technical mistake? Even more! Even abroad, some European political groups are trying to represent Slovenia as a totalitarian banana republic. I think that this works not only for us, but for the entire Parliament and for the whole of Slovenia. Even if there is no mistake, the situation is very disturbing in New Slovenia, and we do not care that we know that the signatures are lost, that the culprit cannot be found and cannot be proved. How can justice be served, as the leader of the Group of Members has said? Someone should be responsible for this. But how do you do it, and in what way? If we were to be objectively responsible for the situation of the high officials, that would probably not be right, because then the opposition would report to the coalition that we have found some sinful goat to be held accountable. If an action occurs that is not directly affected by a professional policy, but is objectively responsible for it, it is reasonable to derogate objectively if there is no action to prevent it. But in this case, there have been measures and, as I said, there will be no referendum. When we draw the line, what can be the results and conclusions for all these unnecessary interpretations and 18 hours of mutual accusation, if this interpolation succeeds and Minister Gorenak falls, it will be a simple message that Mr Gorenak deliberately stole these signatures and wanted to prevent the referendum. We in New Slovenia are convinced that he did not steal them, that he did not do it on purpose, and because of this, as I said, we will not support this interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u16	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Citizens and Citizens! It is also a nice greeting to the other representatives of the Government, and I cannot hide the surprise that the Minister is not supported by the President of the Government at the time of his interpretation, which is usually the case, nor by other ministerial colleagues. It is true that today, at the request of Positive Slovenia, we are considering the first interpretation in this mandate. It is also true that many are convinced, too, that some of the other ministers would have long deserved the interpretation, and perhaps even the minister in question, who in the past has very much excited the political scene. But Positive Slovenia is really no extreme party on the left, as some of us want to show, but the fact that we are the largest parliamentary and opposition party and as such a strong and loud critic of the work of the Government. We want to allow the government to do the work for which it wanted to take responsibility, but we cannot by no means abandon the opposition to do their job and to use the most powerful tools we have when it is absolutely necessary. And, of course, we must call in the event that there has been a grave and unacceptable interference with the constitutionally guaranteed right to referendum. Any other course of action would be totally unacceptable. Today, in the interview with Minister Gorenak, it is clear that he is responsible for the unknown where 36 letters have disappeared, that is, 349 signatures, copies of signatures, under the referendum on the so-called bad bank, and that the outstanding issue is 104 letters with copies of signatures under the request for a referendum on Slovenian holding. The two referendum initiatives are therefore at stake in the event of signatures. By the way, difficulties in collecting signatures have also been encountered by the initiators of the TES 6 referendum in the same mandate of the government, who are now seeking their right on the path of justice. It is also clear to the Minister that, by deliberately delaying the notification of the National Assembly and thereby preventing voters from meeting the legal conditions, the initiative prevented the initiators from supplementing the initiative within the time frame, resulting in the initial completion of the procedure to the detriment of the initiators, the referendum initiative being rejected, citizens and citizens trying to prevent the exercise of their constitutional right. Of all the above, the fact that the original signatures were kept in the National Assembly has not changed at all, although the President of the National Assembly points out this. It is crucial, as all the predecessors point out, that this co-operation with signatures would never have been established if the union had not kept the photos of all signatures sober and on the basis of negative past experience, and if Positive Slovenia had not submitted a request for a referendum with the assistance of three other Members, thereby preventing, inter alia, the President of the National Assembly from sending the law into force and then bringing the law into force. It provided the necessary time and delay, which allowed the fact to be highlighted, the cruel fact that someone was caught with his fingers in a marmalade. Because I hope that at least here we agree, someone has to take responsibility for what happened. The referendum initiative represents one of the rare possibilities of implementing the direct democratic will of citizens and in the opinion of not only our own, but also the European Court of Justice represents not only a constitutional but also a human fundamental right. This event, which shows an attempt to prevent the expression of the democratic will of the electorate, is therefore dangerously threatening not only democratic standards but also our constitutional arrangements under which the authority is the people and executes them directly in accordance with Article 3. Infringement of such a right is in itself inadmissible, but if that right is infringed by a representative of any other branch of authority, whether enforceable or legislative, which has been elected by people, it is extremely unacceptable and not only unacceptable. Only the Prime Minister, who is known for his cynicism and rhetorical abilities to relativize acts according to who did them, said it was a scandal in this case. And this scandal, which undermines the foundations of democratic regulation – because I am asking you what is even sacred if even the clear will of the citizens is no longer the world – therefore, it requires responsibility. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore immediately after the event called for the resignation of both responsible persons, both the President of the National Assembly and the Minister of the Interior. Unfortunately, there was no self-initiative responsibility in this case either. Instead, they both began to vomit guilt at each other, at their subordinates, and at an unexplained set of circumstances. That is how we are now witnessing that the signatures apparently went unexplained on a 150 - foot [150 m] long journey between the National Assembly and the Ministry. One journalist calculated that 2.3 signatures per metre or 23 signatures per ten metre of road were lost. It is also true, regardless of all the Minister's claims, that we have not yet found all copies of the signatures under a request for a bad bank. They did not appear in Mr Tonin's photocopying machine, nor were they based on a pile of workers, nor did the wind bring them back. They simply lost themselves to the wind forever unknown where or as someone said in a graphic way, "the fog took them". Neither the information officer nor her investigation, nor the Public Administration Inspectorate, who both found that it would be difficult to establish the responsibility for the disappearance of signatures. However, the current developments, particularly with regard to the retention of the notification of insufficient signatures at the Ministry of the Interior, show the political responsibility of Minister Gorenak. The Anti-Corruption Commission's report also notes that "it is not possible to determine with certainty which body the leaves were lost or estranged and, at the same time, the findings show a greater likelihood that this action occurred at the UN." End of quote. The Commission also assesses, again I quote, "that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, as an institution in the communication to the National Assembly, acted contrary to the expected integrity." Also in the relationship between the two responsible persons, says the President of the National Assembly and the Minister, their subsequent reactions and their past activities, the technique of responsibility, unfortunately, tends towards the Minister, so today we are talking about the political responsibility of Minister Gorenak as part of this interpretation. In the event that this political responsibility does not appear to have been given, we will, as the leader of the parliamentary group has already said, find responsibility elsewhere. The only hope for all of us, for all of our citizens, that it will ever truly be revealed, who physically lost, hid, burned those signatures, and the police remain. And this is the same police that is under the minister's desk, which we are interpreting today, led by the elected minister and a long-standing friend, Mr. Veniger. This same director, who, one day after the Minister's public comment that criminals should carry out graphic investigations when investigating a Member, ordered official supervision of these same criminals. Why is that? Because they found out that the Members had signed their own signatures? Perhaps it is comforting to know that the investigation of missing referendum signatures or copies is directed by independent state prosecutors — what a shame! - again subordinated to the same department run by Minister Gorenak. That is probably why it does not have to be pointed out that if we ever want to find out who is actually or, as we say, subjectively responsible for the loss of signatures, we have to resign or leave the post. But the essence is something else, who has actually hidden, destroyed or burned signatures under initiatives, is not essential for our interpretation at all! The detection of subjective or criminal liability is indeed a matter of detection and prosecution, i.e. the police and the prosecution. Therefore, the statements that the key results of the police investigation will be a sign of a misunderstanding of both the concept of political responsibility and the concept of interpolation. To make the situation more clear, not so much for our understanding, but especially for the understanding of citizens who also mix these concepts, let us shed light on some basic concepts. Political responsibility, especially objectively, is the easiest to understand by giving it in the face of its opposition, which is subjective legal responsibility. In law, we speak mostly of subjective responsibility based on the fault of a person, such as civil liability or criminal responsibility. Criminal responsibility is, for example, the responsibility of a specific person for a crime and is always subjective, i.e. personal. He doesn't know objective liability in criminal law. However, if we are talking about criminal liability in this matter, I repeat, I am speaking hypothetically, just to show the difference, we could possibly talk about the fact that, for example, the Minister, the President of the National Assembly or someone else responsible for the work of signatures, may be responsible for the service of a particular crime. Of course, what crime would be committed would determine the prosecution, as always. However, we can say that it could be a crime of abuse of an official position or of an official right, provided for in Article 257 of the Law: "an official person who, in order to gain a non-profit benefit for himself or anyone else or to harm anyone, exploit his official position or cross the border of official rights or not perform official duties shall be punished by imprisonment..." and so on. In the next slide, I also showed you the crime of the bride's work, which perhaps, according to the D.A.'s opinion, could have been reported to anyone. However, in both cases, it is only for the court to determine, on the basis of the indictment and the legal procedure and in the context of the evidentiary procedure to be carried out, whether all the evidences of the offence have been given, and to determine the guilt and conviction of someone. Of course, the National Assembly should not and does not have the authority to intervene in this process. Therefore, co-existence between colleagues is that we have no evidence that it is not clear who is to blame and so on in this interpretation irrelevant. We don't judge the Minister here and we don't want to judge him or collect evidence. Under Article 118 of the Constitution, Article 19 of the Law on Members and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is the responsibility of Members to decide, at the request of the proposer, on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, in this case Minister Gorenak. According to theory, some domestic experts, such as Dr Cerar, quoted by her colleague Potrata, have also called political responsibility a hierarchical responsibility, responsibility for consequences, without the need for direct criminal responsibility of the responsible person, i.e. the minister. Without direct criminal responsibility! An even better definition was written in his textbook in 1994 by Professor Grad, who wrote about the minister's political responsibility: "The individual responsibility is shown in the fact that the minister is fully responsible for the ministry's functioning, of course also for his work. In this context, the Minister is responsible for both the Ministry's policy and its implementation in individual cases. This means that he is responsible not only for his work but also for the work of his subordinates within the Ministry's remit. Political responsibility is exercised primarily by interpolation, but also by the institution." End of quote from the text of Prof. Dr. Grad, constitutional lawyer. In the interest of objectivity, let me add that all the theorists, including Dr Cerar and Dr Grad, add and realize that this concept of political responsibility is designed very wide and interferes not only in the legal field but also in the moral and ethical field. Therefore, the answer to when, for example, a derogation is needed for political reasons is not uniform, and this institution is often misused when an official calls for resignation for any minority. In the past, ministers at home and abroad have given up for various reasons. At home, we could remember the resignation of Minister Bozič in 2007 due to a traffic accident at the unprotected railway crossing of the Circovčana. Do we believe that there was evidence that he was responsible for the railway accident? In a foreign country where they have a longer democratic tradition, ministers have given up for various reasons: the Czech Minister for Chaos in the Register of Motor Vehicles, the Greek Minister for Culture for the Robbery of the Olympic Museum, the Albanian Defence Minister for the Explosion of Military Storage, the Cypriot Defence Minister for the Explosion of the Sea Base and could still list. However, in practice and theory, some practice or standards have already been developed that affect when we really assess that objective political responsibility has been given and that the official has to respond. In this sense, as theory and practice agree, it is crucial, in particular, what is the gravity of the act or event itself. So, what is the weight of the disappearance of the signatures of voters exercising their right to direct democracy? Additional factors can be added to this, which are listed in the slide, so I will not burden you with them, but they also show that the weight is essential, and then only the attitude towards the minister is taken into account. However, there is no doubt about objective political responsibility in cases where subjective political responsibility has been given, it is said that the official has also actively participated in the act or acted, for example, abandoned. As the Minister's speech shows that it is not clear what Positive Slovenia wants and says that we are mixing things, I will reiterate. In a specific case, we believe that this is a clear case of political responsibility, with the Minister on item 2 of the interpolation, this is the disappearance of signatures, at least objectively, and perhaps subjective political responsibility, which is said to be noted by someone else, due to the abandonment of due political care in handling signatures. In the case of point 1, it is said, however, that in deliberately delaying the notification of the National Assembly and thus of the electorates, there is an objective and subjective political responsibility for the handling of signatures. By the way, it's 30. Ten. 2012 signed a letter that had an unreal content, meaning, a false date, and thus did a demeaning act, or purposefully signed a letter with a false date — a plot or intention. These circumstances also justify, after the assessment of the anti-corruption commission, that this part was either intentional and delegated, as a result of a strong policy interest in preventing a referendum, or a reckless abandonment of due diligence in the performance of the minister's duties. Finally, the Commission notes that this conduct requires, inter alia, least willingness to recognise and accept responsibility and to accept the consequences of this responsibility. Given all the details, it's not even that important. However, a number of circumstances remain unexplained, which are listed in the slide above, what happened, who handled the signatures, when the central register was printed, why they did not work too hard on the MNZ to review the signatures for a second time and thus respect the deadline set by the President of the National Assembly, and so on. And, of course, we still don't know where 350 signatures actually went. For our democracy, it is also very important to ask who all knew what was going on and for this disappearance. We are particularly interested to know whether the President of the National Assembly, who is responsible for informing the initiators and who could be 29. Ten. At the expiry of the deadline, the Ministry called on it to determine whether sufficient signatures were collected. But that's not the topic of today's interpolation. I can conclude by saying that in Positive Slovenia we are convinced that this is one of the purest cases of interpolation in the history of our country. We can see bad policy and numerous cases of controversial and illegal behaviour to the government, but the above-mentioned signing stunt is one of the biggest political disgraces in the history of our young country. If we look at the whole story more broadly in the context of formalistic rejection of the clear and unequivocal will of Members under the two referendums, criminal investigation of Members and other pressures, we can agree that this is an unacceptable interference not only with the constitutional rights of Members and of the people, but with a grave violation of the basic principles of democracy. If the rights of Members are currently not a popular topic in our country, even if they are rights exercised by the Constitution, there are so many more current rights of people who demand more direct democracy and decision-making in the streets. By acting like the one who is the subject of today's interpolation, you wanted to take away what belongs to them under the Constitution. And then some politicians add that this interpolation is unnecessary. The self-confident minister waves in this vehement wave with a resignation statement, for which there is no need, and again on his blog he talks about responsibility to his constituents. Prime Minister Janez Janša invites him to resign, protect and interpret his entire coalition on the point of inadmissibility. Although he was the same, even then Prime Minister Janez Janša, at the resignation of the ministers of Bručan and Zupan, he put himself in the defence of ministers, but supported the resignation with the following words: "Let their resignation be the most appropriate way to remove the disturbances and thus enable the Government to devote itself to important priorities". We can only regret that this decision was not taken by the President at the same time and thus burdened the political space of this interpretation. But, Your Honor, deciding on and voting on interpretation is not the responsibility of either the Minister or the President of the Government. Whether political responsibility is given in a particular case or whether it is objective or subjective, it is up to you, your fellow Members and colleagues to decide on the Minister of the Interior. It is our duty to the Members of the National Assembly to protect the democracy and constitutional rights which our country is encroaching on and to enable their smooth implementation. The theory says that decision-making must be asked in particular whether even after the policy event is still credible and whether it is still credible, so that people can continue to believe that the rule of law is working. Members and Members of Positive Slovenia will, of course, support the interpretation and, as a young, only a year old party will contribute to respect for democratic standards. But once again, our voices and the voices of the opposition party are not enough. You are once again taking responsibility as members of the coalition. It is up to you whether by voting and by honest and ethical conduct, you will take a step in the direction that this political silence, which is being read to us by people and in which some of us have fallen just before time, begins to clear and clean, or will only get even more blurry. The key problem, and it has been a long time for me, because our countries are not that we are all on average politicians, bankers, judges, prosecutors, doctors, economists corrupt and fraudulent thieves. No! No! It is impossible, even statistically, for everyone to be like this and to be so many in such a small country. The problem with our country is that in each particular area it does not impose the responsibility of those who have indeed done wrong. Such conduct then casts a bad light on all others and on all of us. Unexplained disappearance of a large number of signatures and delaying information on non-compliance and public confidence in the legality and integrity of both the Ministry and the National Assembly is unacceptable, harmful and in the long term also dangerous. It can cause serious consequences for the state of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Taking responsibility does not only mean an accusation that can sometimes be politically conditional, but also seriously and responsibly assess arguments such as political, judicial, business or any other. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope we've managed to convince you that someone has to be responsible for the signing stunt. Please take the arguments seriously and responsibly and assess whether there are reasons for political responsibility. We believe that there are just all the reasons for the Minister of the Interior to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! Interpellation was expected to happen first to Minister Gorenak after the signing of the coalition agreement and the establishment of the government. In Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, you objected to the prosecution's placement in internal affairs, especially in the Group of Positive Slovenia. I hear it's because of the fear of political pressure on the prosecutors. Otherwise, in any area, there has been, or would have been, the prosecution has always had, and would have had, a policy, a minister who should have, or should have, carried out, the tasks and powers in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It is not known to Minister Gorenak that he would have crossed the constitutional and legal limits within these ten months of his appointment, as you have reported to him in reserve in both opposition parties since his appointment. Let's get to the point. What happened with the signatures of the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industry is unacceptable, unprecedented in Slovenian parliamentary practice and wider. By all standards! No excusable reason can be found for such conduct by the competent and responsible, beginning with the National Assembly and finally at the Ministry of the Interior. This, although mildly said negligence that has occurred through signatures, cannot be attributed to the political part of the National Assembly, i.e. to the President of the National Assembly or Members, because we had absolutely nothing to do with these signatures and the responsibility for this complication lies with the services of the National Assembly, which is also led by the official of the National Assembly. This is what the opposition knows, but all the attention of the opposition, particularly the members of the Positive Slovenia, quickly focused on the political part of the National Assembly, namely the President of the National Assembly and the coalition, and later this shifted to Minister Gorenak and finally only Minister Gorenak remained. Why did such a diversion take place? In particular, because what happened with the signatures of the Members of Positive Slovenia in both the referendum requirements, the Slovenian State Holding and the so-called Bad Bank were unacceptable. The unprecedented action in Slovenian parliamentary practice and beyond, except that in this particular case it was explicitly a serious political error of the largest political group in the Slovenian Parliament, for an attempt at abuse by which the Positive Slovenia, by submitting a referendum request, sought to stop the application of two explicitly important laws for the country. In this particular case, there was no error in officials, but in politics, in positive policy. Just to remind you, when the President of the National Assembly said that the signatures of the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries were too small and when the other union decided that the Trade Union of Energy Workers would not submit a request for a referendum, the Positive Slovenia quickly stepped in. As a political reserve, she replaced the union. It all points out that at the last moment it was probably ordered that it was an ordered political action, when they were immediately, when both trade-offs were dropped and there was no one else who could stop the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act and so-called bad banks. Both laws have greatly interfered with those who, over the years, mixed with state assets and banks, and who have benefited greatly from poor government silver management and who have not been disturbed by the permanent recapitalisation of the banking system and other state-owned silver. The law prevents many things from happening, while at the same time allowing for the identification of responsibility for many bad or even illegal decisions in the past. The positive Slovenia, which until now has been very disliking with the referendums, can read a number of quotes from your President Zoran Jankovic, has changed its mind at the moment. Such a sudden conversion took place several times in a few months of your parliamentary story when one of you is saying that you are diverting attention, and the other you are actually doing. However, Positive Slovenia was not ready for the task. Although both requests could have been written within a few hours, they did not have a sufficient number of Members present to sign themselves under both requirements. You quickly collected one, almost certainly incomplete set of parliamentary signatures of your own, because it is evident that one signature is missing, and with it you filed two cases for the referendum, for the second set you scanned them. All relevant legal experts have said that the request with the attached scanned signatures is not valid and has been duly rejected by the President of the National Assembly. The unprecedented scandal, which is highly dosed, can be said to have been controlled by our media in just a few days. In a short time we have witnessed the implementation of individual Members of Positive Slovenia concerning the attached signatures, their own-hand and scanned. Only three statements from positive Slovenia are sufficient to understand the problem and each raises the issue of correctness. On 2 November, Parliamentary Group leader Jani Möderndorfer said that he always had one copy of all the Members' signatures deposited. On 5 November, Wilphan confirmed that all Members had signed twice, according to two forms. Maša Kociper said the next day in the National Assembly that "unfortunately in four hours we failed to get them, a few people from our party were not physically present in our country". What's he holding? Was the original copy complete if there was obviously one signature missing on it and when some members of Positive Slovenia were not in the country? Did all Members sign twice, as Mr Wilfan said? It's probably a clear positive lie. Of course, it is not possible to overlook the fact that several of the signatories on vacation have made their signature very different, which has also been the subject, I cannot say that investigations, but more carefully I can say some enquiries. On 8 November, two letters were issued; the first was signed by the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic, and addressed to the President of the Government of Mr Janez Janša. This letter was received by the President of the Cabinet on the same day, and, among other things, Zoran Jankovic wrote in it, quote, "I expect you or invite you to propose to the National Assembly the discharge of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, for his objective responsibility. I also call on you to do so because this will allow for an independent investigation into the disappearance of signatures of citizens and citizens under the referendum initiatives. The last of the ministers, because of his actions so far, cannot be expected." I've quoted all the mistakes in this paragraph. This was requested from Prime Minister Zoran Jankovic, who did not require any investigation into the signatures of his Members. Why not? This would be politically correct if he had already sent a letter to the President of the Government with such a request. Politics must work legally correctly and fairly, not by example, but in Positive Slovenia they are untouchable. The second letter, signed on 8 November by the Member of Positive Slovenia Jani Möderndorfer, is addressed to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Gregor Virant. This letter was received only a day later, on November 9th, although both offices have the same floor and there are only a few doors between their offices, indicating the speed of communication within the National Assembly. In this letter, Mr Möderndorfer points out, among other things, to the President of the National Assembly: "In Positive Slovenia we are seriously concerned about a number of controversial decisions at the time of your leadership of the National Assembly, which have significantly reduced the standards of democratic procedures and made it impossible for the opposition to function and the involvement of civil society and the public concerned in the establishment of legislation." And keep going. "The last precedent with lost signatures, for which there is no justification in normal democracy, shows definitively that you are not a person with sufficient personal integrity and high standards to continue to lead the most important institution of parliamentary democracy. In the light of the findings of the contested actions of some Members, you are always the first to draw attention to the standards that should be in force in the National Assembly. Now we call on you to assume objective responsibility for the event and to protect the integrity of the National Assembly with your resignation." End of quote. This is what the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly called for in the letter, but nothing happened and the Positive Slovenia went quiet. From this day forward, you have no longer dealt with the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly, the letter has remained, you have not withdrawn it and everything else is incomplete, but if I add, in my opinion and conduct, no President of the National Assembly has been involved in taking over the signatures, administrative tasks performed by the services of the National Assembly, because this is their whole work. However, all the presidents so far have signed various letters regarding the referendums, and the Ministry of the Interior has published the results of the reviews, called for referendums and so on. In short, it was an accusation or a conviction that was not in place. The serious political error of Positive Slovenia and their attempt to abuse the referendum procedure with scanned signatures had to be quickly transferred to political competition after unwitting reading. Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Officer Mojca Prelešnik, with whom Mr. Möderndorfer meets several times on coffee, is not politically interesting [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Actually, there's a big bow to avoid. [[advertising from the hall]] The President of the National Assembly is already more interesting, but not enough, so Jani Möderndorfer's letter remained in the National Assembly somewhere without a response. The only suitable target at this time is Minister Gorenak, who is concerned in one small intermediate part because of our legal arrangements, and the attack on him can also shake the coalition. Only then will the interpolation be able to support a number of discussions. Thus, for example, discussions about the government, which particularly disturbs the opposition, and cover the stigmatism of Positive Slovenia with scanned signatures and their failed attempt to cheat when filing requests for a referendum. It is also an opportunity for the minister to be subjected to police verification of some of the very unusual signatures of the members of Positive Slovenia on requests for anonymous applications. However, in order to make use of the political situation also due to protests and general social conditions and, of course, also to identify any shortcomings arising from the verification of signatures in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, although the findings of the first outcome from the monitoring reports did not in fact affect them. No one noticed this, so positive Slovenia's response to the Minister's interpretation was expected. Perhaps to begin with, we should look at how the procedures in the National Assembly are going. When an ordinary citizen enters the National Assembly, they first write it down and then X-ray it. No one can enter without being individually described, i.e. seduced into a book, and examined, as well as, if it comes in a group, in a package. Such are the instructions, and this is done consistently. There is also a directive on office business adopted by the Secretary-General for the entry of materials into the National Assembly, which provides sufficient precision for a normal citizen to deal with materials, as well as for a healthy farmer to say that the acquisition takes place, i.e. the quantitative and substantive transfer of materials between the carrier and the acquirer. That's what they say in every depository in state offices, every time you check what's delivered. On 6 November, the President of the National Assembly sent us an urgent notice concerning the initiative of voters to apply for a legislative referendum accompanied by an official note on the procedures for the reception of the electoral initiative to apply for a legislative referendum on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, detailing all procedures for the conduct of the services of the National Assembly of signatures received from 10 October 2012 from 13:00 when the signatures were received, and by 6 November when, due to the outbreak of the affair with the missing signatures, a comparison of the lists with the original signatures was made by the Ministry of the Interior. This document was mainly signed by employees in the main office and by the courier. This document was also the basis for other institutions dealing with this problem or the problem of the missing signatures of the Chemical, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry Syndicate. For example, the Anti-Corruption Commission has quite accurately summarized this official note, both in the interim report and then in the final report, where it was put into the chronology of events. I will not go very precisely, but it follows from this document that the signatures within the National Assembly have moved eight times among officials and that none of these stages of the signature movement have been recorded. At no stage was it counted, there was no handover at any stage, in fact there was no commission control over what was happening and moving during the reception, copying, depositing, packaging and then preparation for the award to the Ministry of the Interior. Between October 10th and October 25th – and at that time, as it is said, something happened to this documentation in the National Assembly – the Ministry of State or Minister Gorenak’s name did not appear once. It was only nine times that the courier brought these letters and these signatures to the Ministry of the Interior that the Ministry appeared, and against nine in the line responsible for handling this material, that interpretation was initiated due to subjective and objective responsibilities. After the outbreak of the affair, the secretary-general said that they had been doing this for 15 years and that there had never been a problem. This statement in some way sought to pass the blame for the error on the predecessors in the duty stations, but they have absolutely nothing to do with this particular matter. This is also no excuse for the poor oversight of the services of the National Assembly. Then a suggestion was also made that the error occurred in the circulation of documents between the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior. However, no one noticed that anything would screw up a courier carrying material from the National Assembly to the Ministry of the Interior and from the Ministry back to the National Assembly. There's no such thing as a bookmark. This motion with the circulation of documents between the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior is, for example, similar to the driver's manoeuvre, which transports the red light and causes a severe traffic accident and then such a driver says that some others carried a red light in 15 years. This would then say that this mistake, this accident or whatever, happened somewhere between the pedestrian and the E.R. transition. Finally, we would propose the removal or punishment of the chief of staff. That's kind of what this case looks like. The procedure at the Ministry of the Interior took place between 25 and 30 October 2012. It should also be noted here that the documents received were not handled with sufficient care. However, at the Ministry of the Interior, all the inputs to the personal data of the signatories are recorded and there are no illogically available developments to be detected. In the inspection of the information officer, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and Administrative Inspection has not found that the fields with the signatures of the electorates and electorates would only be partially processed or that individual fields and persons were overlooked or any other inconsistencies, except that the documentation at the Ministry was quite easily handled. However, there were no errors pointing to abuses or to the eligibility of interpolation readings. If I am not mistaken, the Minister said, on one occasion, that when it was found that the number of signatures was not sufficient, then, in those signatures which had been removed, an additional re-examination had been carried out, which also partly led to the deadline for the submission of the minutes to the National Assembly. However, everything carried out by the Ministry of the Interior was carried out within a period of time. The National Assembly obtained the signatures within the time limit set by it as the deadline. The union was informed of the result of the verification but did not immediately raise doubts about the number of signatures by the Ministry of the Interior. The union did not react in time, and it proved that their doubts about the number of genders and signatures that were in the review were justified, since they delivered more than half of them to the National Assembly with more signatures than was actually verified. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that there are 10 in the National Assembly. Ten. The 2012 trade unions of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries did not count for the first time until 6 November, this is said to be a few days after the union intervention, and almost a month after the union's initiative. As has been said, there have been several controls, both internal investigations in the National Assembly and in the Ministry of the Interior, and the supervision of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Public Administration Inspectorate, the Information Commissioners and the case may be investigated by others. The findings of the inspection of the information officer are as follows: "The list of signatories to the initiative was not duly verified either at the time of taking over the National Assembly, nor at the time of photocopying the list, nor at the time of transmission of the photocopy list from the DZ to the MNZ verification, so that the number of photocopiers from the list of initiators submitted for verification to the Ministry of the Interior cannot be established." This part of the report speaks only of the National Assembly, and something has been said to have been adopted in the National Assembly, and no one can really confirm how much of this has been done. The following report of the Information Commissioner states: "In addition, at the Ministry of the Interior, when the photocopy list was taken from the National Assembly, the number of the list was not recalculated or otherwise verified and documented, and the Ministry of the Interior did not provide this at the time of the distribution of the copied material received from the list of signatories for the verification of the twenty-eight staff members or at the time of the return of the reviewed list of signatories to the National Assembly." Well, that's the part of the procedure that's being interpreted. The Anti-Corruption Commission, or its Monitoring and Investigation Service, in its interim report, also states that, when receiving and recording the KNG Trade Union initiative, 10 Ten. 2012 there has been a lack of respect for and infringements for the staff of the National Assembly of Compulsory Provisions on the Office's Operations Guidelines of the National Assembly. Thus, the Information Commissioner's report, the Commission's interim report on the prevention of corruption and the final report of the same Commission, accompanied by chronology, have completely undermined the political structure of the interpretation against Minister Gorenak. Several inconsistencies or errors occurred before the arrival of the material to the Ministry of the Interior, but it is true that procedures were not conducted flawlessly at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, with due care and responsibility, but, in view of all previous errors and findings of error, it is not possible to burden only the Ministry of the Interior and, as a consequence, Minister Gorenak as a political official. Major errors occurred earlier. Interpellation is on three counts, namely, that Minister Gorenak should prevent the referendum initiative of the electorate, that he should leave due professional care in handling the signatures of the electorate and that he is objectively and politically responsible for the loss of the confidence of the electorate and electorate. The Minister responded to all these interpretation findings, rejected them in a reasoned manner, first in a written response to the interpretation which had been transmitted to the National Assembly since 22. 11th and today's oral. It is clear from the replies that the work of verifying the signatures for the referendum request has been carried out in accordance with the practice so far, that the report to the National Assembly was transmitted in due time, within the time limit, although there were two more days left in between and although the Ministry received signatures from the National Assembly almost two days later than it could have received them. The Minister is aware that the work on the MNZ has not been fully carried out by standards, the inconsistencies have been corrected. However, I find it illogical that the Minister would have ordered the removal of a copy or that any of the officials at the Ministry would have ordered it, where everyone certainly knew that there were originals in the National Assembly, that is to say in another institution, and that it was easy to verify the identity of the documents; and then that also happened. We believe that it is not possible for the Minister to impose subjective responsibilities in view of the findings of several independent investigations, the Information Commissioners, the Anti-Corruption Commission, including the Public Administration Inspections, which have not found that errors in the handling of KNG's material have occurred at the MNZ, that not all of the lists delivered have been reviewed; this is said to have not been the case. Given the fact that the verification of the signatures was prepared and carried out within the time limit, although additional controls have been established to ensure that both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior have responded in an initial and substantive manner, the procedures for such verification of the data and the security of documents have been improved, given that this referendum initiative of the Syndicate of Chemical, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry has been processed, although it is now before the Constitutional Court, we do not believe that this intervention has been put in particular due to the diversion of the attention and scandalous conduct of Members of the Positive Slovenia to apply for the appointment of both referenda, so we will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party for this interpretation. In fact, if you wish to talk more about Gorenak, then you also wish to talk less about Jankovic and his stories. If you want to transfer the cake from the problems that accompany your President to the National Assembly or as far away from it as possible, then I certainly hope that the coalition will not support your requests for interpretation as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. I give the floor to Minister Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'm only going to respond to things that seem really important to me and that specifically disinformation the public. The other things I think I'll say, less important, of course, no. First thing I want to explain. In the SD, I got an unblocked office where those signatures were. Let me complement what the answer says and what the anti-corruption commission found. But you forgot to say that the whole system, i.e. the whole house, the whole building on Beethoven 3 was electronically and technically protected and that there were specially recorded entrances, which the anti-corruption commission looked at and also found. Mrs Kociper has told me that I am not supported by the President of the Government or by ministers. You know, because they're not here in the National Assembly, I've been monitoring the work of the National Assembly for a long time, even before 2000, for example. I don't remember any interpretation for the Prime Minister to sit here and for all the ministers to sit here. At this point, ministers – I've seen three, four of them who have been here, you know that they now have committees to have a second job, but I know they're still coming. It also seems important to me that I remind you that those who were once in the LDS and who are today in Positive Slovenia, in 1998 and 1999, more specifically on 16 February 1999, claimed that the arrival of the then Prime Minister Drnovska at some interpretation was not necessary. That's when Mr. then Prime Minister Drnovšek, just showed up at those doors, didn't come to the hall, he left. Well, I don't need any ministers either, but I can see they're coming. It needs to be objective. You said there was a problem with TES 6. There was no problem with TER 6 except for the doubts of the signatories whose signatures were excluded, which the signatories could also verify and are satisfied with our response. I reiterate that from the Ministry of the Interior to here there are not 150 metres, Mrs Kociprova, let us come to the Ministry already, and you will see that we are in Šiška on Litostorski 54. Otherwise, I thank you for the relatively balanced performance that you have made, because you have summarized the report of all independent institutions, including that part that criticises the procedures of the National Assembly. So I am very grateful to you here for all the performances, as opposed to Mr. Möderndorfer. Of course, Mr. Veniger is my friend. Have we ever hidden this? I've known him since he was 15. However, I proposed it because I know that he is an excellent leader and that he will lead perfectly the largest institution or one of the largest institutions in this country with 9,000 employees. The fact that he ordered control is good and control has shown nothing but misinformation of him. The fact that the prosecutors are in the interior ministry will, of course, be the eternal theme of you and probably of someone else, but the prosecutors, as they are until they arrive at the Ministry, are now working independently. I have no option, no chance of affecting their work in any way. You mentioned why some minister resigned in the world and you said everywhere, an attack on an opera, an attack on a cultural institution, an explosion there and there and so on. That's right. If today proved guilty at the Ministry of the Interior, we wouldn't be sitting here. That's not the way it is, but you forgot to say that. Between 26th and 30th, the matter, as you said, was held at the Ministry of the Interior. Please add that it's Saturday and Sunday and don't cheat. You listed the government’s findings – then put your trust in the government! Because if you have an eyewitness on the government's agenda, you have to put in an untrustworthy, not an interpolation. That's what I think you know. The criminalization of signatures is a scandal. Why is that? Why is that? There is no person – as long as I am the principle of this institution and as long as Mr Veniger sits there, you will have no influence on the police as you may have in the past. He is not a citizen of this country, but he was the president of this country, whether he is the Prime Minister or he is a Member of Parliament or he is the last citizen of the Lower or Upper Snake Village. There's no connection. We're all the same before the law. And if there was a reasonable assumption, and we got a complaint from the National Assembly, if there was a reasonable assumption that it was a forgery of your signatures, which, of course, you can't forge yourself, so you're not suspects, but it was someone who forged your signatures, then the criminal investigation is justified. And you're not going to tell me that the criminals walked here because they walked in accordance with the laws and nothing else! You in Positive Slovenia will not be any exception to the future either. No one can be an exception! Every citizen is obliged to respect the laws or is obliged, as you were, to be a witness in the procedures in question. After all, we weren't investigating you. We were investigating those who were supposed to falsify your signatures. That's why you gave us a lot of reasons, and you told us yourself – what I know, Mr Wilphan, that he was abroad, and that he signed in the original two, and you filed the photocopy. So you're giving indications that someone forged your signatures. It's just to be investigated, I think it's helping you. In the case of Mrs Župevčev, this has been demonstrated by a graphic analysis that the signature is hers and that there is no reason why anyone has forged its signature. I don't write my blog anymore, "update" myself – or my computers for a long time and it would be good if you looked at it. But you were talking about the political milk that needs to be cleared. I agree with you that there is political silence in this country, but these political milk does not represent those political parties that have existed for ten or even twenty years; political parties such as New Slovenia, such as the SDS, such as the People's Party or the SD. We have known these parties in this country for decades and more, we know their programmes, we know their opinions, their goals; we know everything and the voters know it. Finally, DeSUS also belongs to the same group of political parties. As far as the National Gazette is concerned, there is no one I see here who would be an old face that would be hidden somewhere in another political party, but there is a new political party that we have here and represent in some way new political faces. But unfortunately, let's say, here before you I see all those who were there in 1996 and in 1995, you were just called LDS. Then I see those who were in the political party really because you switched over because the LDS fell out. After he really fell out, you changed, and there's a lot of faces like that. These are the same faces and, of course, these faces represent political malaise. Why? Because they sell to voters under different names, they're actually the same package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Eva Irgle, prepare yourself for the Mag. Melita Zupevec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! I will start directly; as soon as inspection has shown that it is not possible to determine where the error in the signatures lost has occurred, this interpretation has become irrelevant. This means that we could close the whole matter immediately, lay down our hands and go to work at this time, significantly more important matters for this country, in particular as regards the resolution of the financial and economic crisis. But no, the foretold eighteen hours of debate will thus pass by in a sign of pointing a finger at the minister who has become in this story, now we can say, the sacrificial lamb, because someone has to be condemned, even if there is not enough or no evidence at all! In their letter, both the Information Commissioner and the Anti-Corruption Commission and the findings of the administrative inspection have been alerted to the non-violence of the Minister or to the guilt which could also be elsewhere. Just as you pointed your finger at your respected colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia, or the guilty one that you appointed Minister Gorenak, you could do exactly the same in this story of lost signatures with those responsible in the National Assembly. I will not speculate on why you chose as you did, but there is no doubt that the Minister presents you with a significantly greater challenge, and above all he is more disturbing to you. It must therefore be removed from this place. Finally, today's statement by the Minister of the Interior was more than significant when he concluded his opening address. And right here you could be looking for a reason for your persistent undermining the integrity of the minister, which you've been doing quite a good time, and for setting him up with acts and events that he's never done. In this debate, it is not possible to overlook the fact that, while the legitimate protests of people were clearly also deliberately encouraged, they were not only spontaneous and were also fomented with hatred and violence, that even in this case the minister could be shown with his finger that the police, under his authority, also attacked innocent and peaceful protestors. However, the calculation of some, thank God, which operates from behind, did not come out this time. The police have undoubtedly performed their work professionally, professionally and effectively. In particular, the police carried out their work in accordance with Articles 3 and 30 of the Police Act, which clearly states that the police are obliged to protect lives and property, while respecting the Constitution and laws relating both to the issue and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The first wish for Minister Gorenak to interpel, by Mrs Kociprova, had come only at the beginning of the term of office, could even say that before he became Minister at all. The Prosecutor's Office, which has passed under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, has completely lowered the ground under your feet because you have only connected the transfer with politics, not with the efficiency of the prosecution, which is why we have such opposition to people today because the prosecution has not been effective. The fear that Minister Gorenak will have an impact on the prosecution, although of course it is a total madness, has led you to the Minister's intervention in order to protect your President, who is suspected of several crimes in the field of economic crime. When you found out you didn't have enough arguments to actually write and write an interpellation against Minister Gorenak, you searched and searched. And they found it. The lost signatures, where obviously a lot has been happening, can be said mainly on the side of the National Assembly, and the protests, have undoubtedly given you a new hope that the Minister is still able to interpret. You have filed an interpretation because you are more concerned with the political account than the Minister said in the introduction, you are more concerned with the entire government being demolished at all costs, given the already tightening situation in the country than with the constructive action to benefit citizens and citizens. Why is that? In particular, your authority is that key point of your program. We all agree that the disappearance of signatures under the referendum initiative is unprecedented for democracy. Undoubtedly. There is no dilemma here, for the very clear will of the people under the request for a referendum is one of the essential components of democracy, which should never have been taken away, in any way limited or abused. In this case, whether there has been abuse or merely neglect of those who should have handled such materials most carefully, the inspection could not be ascertained. Undoubtedly, the original sin could have occurred where the first signing took place, that is, in the National Assembly. My colleague Tanko has already explained many factors in the position of the Group of Members, which point to the fact that the blame for the lost signatures could be shifted to the side of the National Assembly, but also this, even though I do not wish to say the most likely fault, since all the investigations have shown that it is impossible to determine who is responsible for the situation. In his introductory explanation, Minister Gorenak presented the chronological course of the events very precisely and, above all, he strongly argued that he rejected all the impressions in the interpretation. He did it in a sovereign and convincing way, so I can't help feeling that by setting up the minister, that he was guilty or responsible for these lost signatures, you just wanted to divert attention because of the fiasco you had with your signatures that weren't original under the request of a bad bank. Do we have just those who have been saying this all the time, I hope, as soon as the investigating authorities have finished their work? I agree with Mrs Kociper that it is certainly right to find the culprit who should then take responsibility for the situation. Minister Gorenak also agrees. Finally, Minister Gorenak was the one who said he would take full responsibility if it turned out that the mistake had been done in any way at the Ministry of the Interior and would immediately resign. Such words from the mouth of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly or, if you like, we have not heard the President of the National Assembly. Even before any observations were made, they argued that the National Assembly had made no mistakes and that a mistake had to be sought earlier at the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, it is important to ask who is most in the interest of Minister Gorenak falling today. Undoubtedly, this can be in the interest of those who fear for the consequences of crimes committed in the field of economic crime. These do not come from ordinary citizens who have been protesting outside for weeks, but they come from the highest party summits. It is totally unacceptable that, on the basis of all the facts collected, you attribute both objective and subjective blame for the situation to the Minister alone. You could say you're going hunting witches. Minister Gorenak was determined on your part to be guilty before it all happened at all. For the Home Secretary to be guilty, you knew when he was appointed. If he does not do anything for which he could reasonably request his resignation, then something must be invented or even directed. Do not forget that 36 signature letters have not yet been found. From here on out, you don't know the bounds of conspiracies. I'm not going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is next on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. A few details have come up, and we all know that in the end there is a problem in detail, not in big things. The Minister, who is currently subject to interpolation – not Positive Slovenia, as he wants to show today, which I will pay special attention to all the time because I see what your focus plan is – especially should be very careful when the Minister speaks. And I will quote him first so that there will be no misunderstandings and misunderstandings, who said: "I have ordered my services to give you more than you asked. That's why you got more than you asked, and that's what you have on your desk." I have to say, I've always been scared lately, because you know more and more than I know. Therefore, in recent times, I am also on the phone not only because I have the feeling that Minister Gorenak is standing in the back somewhere and is listening to me on the phone; but a little later when we are dealing with a conversation with his coworker or subordinate who spoke to me on the phone and again the minister knows more about what I was talking about on the phone than I do. That's the most interesting thing about the minister, but let's not lose track. Actually, it's true. I called the minister for a bunch of documents, and these are the documents he sent me. In these documents – but now I have to say very clearly because he said that he sent me more than he said, he made it very clear in point 3 because, among other things, I also demanded that he give me the travel costs and travel tasks of these routes and he explicitly refused this part and I did not get these documents from the Minister. Those are your words. That's what it says in here. But I did get something else; what Mr Minister represented today. Of course, he was caught in a lie, or he would have to explain it again from here to eternity — what, in fact, he was on Friday. In fact, if I look at his publication on the Ministry or on the website, it says on Friday in the official publication where he was – you know, ministers like to tell where they are and what they are doing because they are always among people – at 9 a.m. the address of Minister of Interior Dr. Vinko Gorenak at the Conference of the Association of Administrative Workers of Slovenia, Youth Street 29, Maribor, Friday, 26 October 2012 that there will be no mistake. This is the only publication on the website. There's no other way. I went to watch twice because sometimes it happens, you know there's an announcement, and then it disappears quickly, but this one stayed. Well, I got the data on where he really was that day. Look, at 7 a.m., the minister started his business trip, and now I'm quoting exactly what I got from the minister, from his services, unless you've looked at them before you sent them to me, and you don't even know what they're sending. 7 a.m., Schmarje at Jelshah's: performance of the job. The minister started his job at 7:00 a.m. Eight o'clock in the morning, heading to Maribor, 9:00. Maribor – private activities; private activities, it says here that he was at work. I'm so sorry. Let's move on! At 11:30 p.m. to Celje, at 12:10 p.m. Celje with surroundings – private activities. It's private activity again. I don't see any wreath laying, and I haven't been informed that you're laying wreaths anywhere. Come in! At 15: Šmarje in Jelšah with surroundings – private activities. You won't believe it, he started his job at 7:00 a.m., but he's been in private activity all day! At 18:00 p.m., he finished his work and stayed in Šmarjah near Jelšah and finished his private activities. This is the work of the minister who tells me here today that he laid his wreaths and was in Maribor at 9 a.m. and had an excuse. I believe something doesn't sting, something doesn't sting, and I don't know, that's what you're gonna say! But don't tell me to cheat and turn your words! Disgraceful and unpleasant, because now you are deceiving the electorate! The second thing that is very important, Mr Tanko – I apologize, because you are all the same! The other thing that's very important is that you don't even have a relationship with the National Assembly. I don't care, Mr Gorenak, if you have no relation to Mr Gorenak, to yourself, this is your problem, I don't care, but you have no relation to the institution or function you perform. And that's what I'm worried about because you're not going to be a minister forever and someone else is coming for the minister, and someone else is coming for the third, and someone else is coming for the fourth. I hope that we will not make it out of this function that simply anyone who comes to this function is actually a evaluated function. That's what we're talking about today. Nothing else. My intention was not to discredit you far from this, but so many holes that have not only been found to you by us, but also by the Commission to prevent corruption, it is more than clear that it is really a matter of time before you have to decide, because this will no longer work. As for the abuse of demonstrations and I don't know what story I heard here today. Excuse me! Interpellation was filed long before the demonstrations. No one ever dreamed of what would happen on the street, but it happened. I'm sorry we have to discuss these things here today. I agree with all of you who say it would be much better if we talked about how to get out of this crisis; but forgive us if we are going to march the postulates of basic democracy in the National Assembly, then we have concluded the story by also solving the problems. And that's the key problem! We just can't skip these things. Mr Tanko gave a clear guidance and direction in his explanation to the SDS Group today, in which the debate in the National Assembly will take place today. We have heard from colleagues and colleagues that it is unfortunate that we will spend eighteen hours; but please do not deceive everyone who is accompanying this debate today. All the parliamentary groups have set the length of the debate themselves, so you are involved in this long debate, Mrs Irgle! Isn't it? Especially your leader. At the College of the President of the National Assembly – and all the leaders who were there – I warned that the Minister had given himself an incredibly long time to discuss. I warned him that it would be reasonable and reasonable that given that he only needed two days to respond and that he had announced that he would only speak for two hours — why did he need so many hours? Let's cut it! And there was no speech for this reduction, of course, then we had to use the same vats to protect ourselves so that we could talk at all at that assembly, so that we would have a balanced discussion, as you say. However, Minister, the point is and we're going to the point, I don't really care what you're doing, I don't care how private you are, but how busy you are in Slovenia. I don't care because I've given up on you and I won't be following you anymore. I wonder what was going on that day. That's important! It's very important, and you know why? Because I know and because the anti-corruption commission has already found in its investigation that you have in fact been informed by morning that there are not enough signatures. You knew that all along! At 6 p.m. you even received a call from the Ministry of the Interior when you were informed of this and you didn't think it was important to react. If I were you, I would interrupt private activities when it comes to such an important issue, when you find that there are too few signatures and that it is possible to create conditions to see whether this is really not enough signatures or not, because then you went to check again. Today you mentioned Saturday and Sunday, we all know that if we look at the dates and dates, we'll see that you were in the middle of two days. I apologize, but the National Assembly works on Saturdays, if necessary, when it comes to urgent matters; on Saturdays, we will also get a count, if necessary, and find out, so that we can make certain things possible in time — those we all say we are talking about actually taking things the way we really need to go to the end. No! No! At that time, the minister said the following: I respected within the framework of the marriage, blah, blah, blah, blah, what is most important is that we hide behind the proceedings. [[...]] People of God, we work for people, not under procedures! Of course, I agree that procedures must be respected! But procedures are not only respected by waiting until the last minute. Minister, there is something important about this interpretation today: for the first time that you did not play the role of the 26th and did not play the role 29 because the post office only came to the 30th National Assembly. And that's the key! Of course, there is a political question whether, given that you are on the other side of the political story, because you had an interest in this referendum not being reached, especially because you knew that negotiations did not go in the same direction as they did in the first referendum, which went in a positive direction that the signatories withdrew their request. You had an interest in not coming up with the possibility of collecting the missing signatures to the end! What's most important. Look, one of them said today that they simply don't believe in conspiracy theories, and I don't believe in conspiracy theories myself, but these cases in this case are absolutely too many. Too many cases! Accidentally, everything breaks down, every day — if we go to the chronology, how things went: everything was actually wrong! And at the end we will tell the Slovenes and Slovenes the following: "Sorry, although everything is wrong in this country, there is no blame for this, because unfortunately we cannot find out. But look! Ignore this fact, let's move on and pretend that nothing has happened and that we really have to save this country in another way. I was hoping that because this function really doesn't mean anything to you, because you said twice today that it's not Gorenak; Gorenak may also be a Member tomorrow. So you don't have an existing problem. In the name of democracy for a reminder and a memory for all, when something like this happens, it would be the best step, Minister, to step down. In addition, I will allow further details to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Minister Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Where it's eccentric, I need to check in, first of all, recommending that you calm down. You know, it's probably hard to insist on the things you insist on, but calmly. Look, it's a shame about your health. You asked me for information for 26. You wrote that I should give you travel orders, journals, travel places and all the other stuff, something like that said in there. A peaceful soul would answer you that I am a protected person, that I do not carry myself in Slovenia, that I do not account for travel costs, that I do not have journals and that you would get the answer back from which nothing would be visible. That's what my predecessor did the day of the Bulmastifs when the press asked her for information on where she was traveling. In fact, there is a suspicion that St. Moritz went and then after about two months of court proceedings, if I recall correctly, or then the information agents received this information. But not data on her journey, but information on the costs and routes of her guards. Look, I've deprived you of this or I've given you this further so that you don't have to look around for it on other routes. What you're saying is not my job path, it's not a description of my path and my activities, but you've read, of course, because of the television cameras, you've read the way of the guards, not me. The normal story is that they performed at 7:00 a.m., you have this document before you – it is normal – and that they picked me up at my home because I live in the vicinity of Šmar near Jelšah and we went to Maribor. Now, what security guards write there: private activities, official activity In any travel assignment, including that of Mrs. Kresalov or any other, you will not see a report on what the minister or any protected person has done. [[...]] That's a fact! But there are some other facts, you can look at them, say, in protocol. The protocol set me out that after that greeting of the administrative workers – I unannounced a visit to the Maribor Center police station because all the police know that I was there. Then in the protocol you can check and you will see that the Protocol of the State of Slovenia sent me to lay the wreath. But then someone died who was a private friend of mine, and I went to a funeral in Shentjur near Cel. That's where everyone saw me. That's how my business trip is no secret. Besides, what you read about the closing at 6 p.m. is the end of the guards and not me, I was home a long time ago, right after the funeral. I think it's around 3:00. So you deliberately mixed up these notions, the way of the guards and the way of me, that's what you've done now on purpose. Come in. The fact that I was notified on the 26th morning, of course, is not true. But, yes, it says in the anti-corruption report that I was notified on the 26th afternoon, this is Friday. And also informed that control of these signatures will be made, which is perfectly normal. The working schedule of public officials is not prescribed by you, but prescribed by the calendar at the annual level adopted by the Ministry of Public Administration, and this does not set Saturday and Sunday as a working day. So much so that I can teach you a little bit and keep you informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We'll talk like this again and again. But look, I see that I have to read all the things exactly with you, because simply, if I understand anything, I realize that you're a master and an artist in turning everything I say. One more time. Before me is the decision on which I received this "spy" and which states in point 3: "Requirement for access to the documents of the mission's duties and the costing is refused." No one, no what, no nothing! That's all. And I didn't get those documents. So to answer the question that I've got everything and more, I don't hold. That was my thesis. And the other about the road. Everything I know about your journey, nothing says anything, how, why, that's it. Look! That's all it is. I can't explain now and hide behind where some security guards traveled. Look, I told you before, I don't care what your guards do. I don't need a special lesson about you being a protected person. Far from it! It is clear to me who is protected in Slovenia and how it is handled in such cases. But hiding behind being a protected person is another problem. And you have this advantage right now. That comparison back and forth about your former predecessor, Minister, the predecessor, because he was a man's sex before, of course, it wasn't my purpose at all, nor did I expect. If you hadn't lied to me like that, you wouldn't be opening up today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Župevc, get Mr. Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What did Vinko Gorenak, as interior minister, do to strengthen the reputation of the interior ministry and the independence of the Slovenian police from everyday politics? Nothing! On the contrary. By his conduct, he further established doubts about her impartial work and independence. We have written down the interpellations and we are convinced that Minister Gorenak, because of his conduct and abandonment of his duties, has caused such severe consequences for the state of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, that he has completely lost the confidence of the public and the National Assembly of this political credibility. Prime Minister Janša recently referred to referendum initiatives as Slovenian exotic things that do not happen in other countries. I myself was part of a story, a very exotic thing that really doesn't happen in other countries. Where else in the world are they checking the Members' signatures if they claim they're his? Where in the world do political opponents prove to him that they already know that the Member has forged the signature? And where in the world are the police stepping into parliament the day after a police investigation is requested by a political party? Really, pure exoticism. It is not possible to get past this story because it shows the symptoms of a policy; politics, hungry affairs, hungry riots and mud water. Minister Gorenak is a representative of this particular policy; the policy that has tried to take all possible manoeuvres in recent weeks to block referendum initiatives in this country. These are the same policies that pledged to the referendum years ago as the highest form of democratic expression of will. A block of referendum initiatives – today it has already been said – is a common denominator of everything that has happened with signatures, such original, scanned signatures, and allegedly counterfeits in the past weeks. What Minister Gorenak failed to do, she tried to do on the right by overtaking the SDS. What is important is the chronology of events: After submitting our request for a referendum at the College of the President of the National Assembly, the SDS requires a graphic analysis of the signature of the Member of the National Assembly. The college says no. An anonymous indictment has been filed. Interesting information has been published by Mladina, I do not know if it holds, 56 minutes after the end of the college, an e-mail message with a criminal complaint appears in the e-mail mailbox of the General Police Administration. And practically the next day, criminals march into the National Assembly. It's an incredible speed. Coincidence. Well, it happened. Interestingly, during the previous SDS mandate, there was a shouting and screaming in another criminal investigation against another Member, today, interestingly, they have no problem. And the minister comes from the same party. And I repeat: I, unfortunately or fortunately, don't believe in coincidence either! The minister who bragged a while ago, how to look forward to the police investigation, which will follow in a short time, knew nothing about anything. He did not care about why and whose initiative the criminals entered the National Assembly, or did anyone give them any special instructions that they should be particularly expedient in doing so, especially if they needed to make an effort and respond quickly. Why wasn't the minister interested this time? Maybe he already knew everything? Maybe he already knew the script? I don't know, I can only guess, because I still haven't got any real answers. I had already asked the Minister of the Interior and the Director-General of Police a public question: How many anonymous criminal charges did the police get per month, per year? And in what time does the police react to the weight of the obvious, I'll say, the suspicions of the crimes? But the Veniger Police Director's response was also interesting. Apparently, the police response time in this case was faster than in similar cases, Mr Veniger said: "As elsewhere, some priorities have been set in the police. I myself believe that it is right to treat matters which are public and which are also affecting democracy as a matter of priority." And another interesting coincidence. The police investigation was apparently carried out without the cooperation of the prosecution, although Minister Gorenak had already made it clear in the presentation of the Minister's candidacy that the President of the proceedings was the prosecutor and the criminalist that his service was; and this must remain so. And another interesting question. What article of the Penal Code provides that counterfeiting of a signature is a criminal offence? Yes, it does sound absurd: falsifying your own signature! But for days and weeks, some said exactly that. Today we heard something new that Minister Gorenak said before, and I'm coming back to it. Yesterday, he explained that this crime was dealt with under Article 251 of the Penal Code — for those who do not know, it was a forgery of the instruments. So, I suspect it's a fake document. Interesting! Today, Minister Gorenak has made a public statement that he was a member of the National Assembly in this process. Interesting! Since the minister mentioned a conversation earlier between the criminalist and the leader of our parliamentary group, I will also tell you what the conversation with the witness looked like. When a criminalist – I must say that he was doing his job properly and I have no comment on him, but he did what he was probably told to do at work – he came to the National Assembly, he started talking like this: "Good afternoon. You know why we're here. With respect to those signatures." I said, "Look, there's no problem, I'm ready to explain everything!" Because given what Minister Gorenak said today, I was a witness. Mr. CSI said, "No, you don't have to explain anything, you just sign it 12 times." I'm the one who was the witness! The Witness insisted that certain things should be recorded on the record, that I had witnesses when I signed the request for a referendum, who was present, who came to look for this signature. I have to tell you that it was, I will say a brief argument that Mr CSI just wrote down what the witness had to say. Otherwise, it was the instructions or the request itself: you only sign it 12 times, and then the National Forensic Laboratory will determine whether it is your signature or not. That's how it was with the witnesses. We can imagine whether I was really a witness or I was something else, obviously others know that. I'm going to repeat a few things again because they seem important to me. The MP of the National Assembly said publicly and clearly, "This signature is mine!" The MP wrote to the President of the National Assembly and once again wrote, "This signature is mine." But no! In the National Assembly, in this policy, the word apparently no longer applies in this country. Today I'm listening again on this side to how one signature is missing. Strangely enough, today they did not ask themselves whether Melita Župevc was actually in this position today. I assure you, it's me, really, because some people obviously can't tell anything! [[...]] Personally, I have no further doubts as to where this prosecution came from. No doubt about it! The one who has put in or helped create some plots already knows, but interestingly, some will apparently break their teeth before they realize that such things are not done in democracy. That if Members say something, in fact, their word sometimes applies. Some may decide by their own actions or by their own actions, but they are also different Members; if someone says something, it is indeed true. Even the President of the National Assembly, Virant, warned that there was a bitter taste that this police investigation had been carried out for political reasons of SDS. He said he couldn't get rid of that feeling. I too can conclude with the words used today by Minister Gorenak in response to the interpretation; laws must be respected, not wishes. Of course, I will support the interpretation of the Minister of Gorenak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. When it was somehow known that the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, would probably be introduced, it was one of the statements made by Mr Gorenak to look forward to the debate in the National Assembly. I must say that I am personally convinced that no one in this Chamber can be pleased to discuss the interpretation of the missing 36 papers on which the signatures were missing so that the will of the electorate and the electorate could be established to sign a referendum on the bad bank law. This is a fact that no one can be happy, but at least not a minister responsible for security and order in the country, and which, of course, as a ministry, is directly involved in this process of verification of signatures and thus also the possibility of building the confidence of voters and voters in the rule of law and trust in institutions that are meant to carry out their work truly on such an important issue without a doubt that something was wrong or that there could be abuse or possibly even a deliberate abuse. The fact is – and I am convinced here that the Minister has also been well aware of the process of verifying signatures or the whole process. When the electorate and the electorate bring the request to the National Assembly, they bring it practically in a package and thus keep the originals in the National Assembly and the corresponding copies forward for review by the Ministry of the Interior if these signatures are indeed signed by the electorate and electorate. This procedure is truly linked to the package and has certainly been, in my opinion, quite well presented to the Minister. No one will convince me that the 36 leaves lost in the package were accidentally lost. If it were a matter of losing a leaf, either because of an awkward count or because of copying or something like that, I might still believe that it was a coincidence and a human error, a mistake in the operation of a copying machine. However, if a package of leaves is lost, 36 sheets, it certainly can't happen by accident. When I am trying to find my own motive for this act, I must admit that this motive is found mainly in the fact that these signatures concerned the request for a referendum on the so-called bad bank. And what is the political motive for this bad bank or this marriage? Very clear: it is not about saving the economy, it is not about saving banks, it is a political motive that policy, the ruling policy, through the Banks Claims Management Company fully subordinates the Slovenian economy or all those economic companies that are committee banks operating in Slovenia. Being able to subjugate the entire economy is an outstanding political motive. I am therefore talking about the fact that I do not believe in any way that it was a coincidence to lose the leaves and the number of signatures required, but that it is necessary and possible to understand here that it was a strong political motive, which is mainly linked to the fact that the economy is directly subordinated to politics. As we look at the value of the bad bank law, we are talking about EUR 5 billion, with which this political motive would also apply. The government and the coalition wanted EUR 5 billion to carry out all the procedures necessary to transfer the claims or comments of banks to a bad bank or to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims; whether it is a healthy economic society or an economic society that is in difficulty and cannot repay credits. In view of that, the political motive is, I would say, at least for me, so much more crystallized, what is the issue here. Either way we turn all arguments and try to explain in one way or another what was going on, I believe that it is not possible and with a finger to show, this one took the 36 pages. On the one hand, I am even pleased that we do not point our finger at one of the employees, because this employee would then be the one who should bear this heavy responsibility for this great shame that happened in Slovenia with the loss of signatures. I am also convinced that when we try to find reasons for what is better to understand both the functioning of politics and individual ministries, as well as governments and the whole, that it would be much better – mainly because of the confidence of people in the country, the ministry responsible for order and peace in the country – that the Minister would, however, assess and give up himself and thus show great loyalty to the country, great belonging to the country, and great belongings and, above all, responsibility to the electorate and electorate. In the whole process, I could not possibly have felt that the Minister was very keen to clarify this issue of the loss of signatures. If I make a comparison, because the National Assembly is also mentioned, I can say that the National Assembly has reacted significantly more specifically and significantly to the fact that the signatures were lost. We can only thank the good work of the National Assembly for being able to verify that these signatures were truly lost, because the originals were stored in the way they were to be stored, and the National Assembly at this stage certainly carried out its task very professionally and properly. Most importantly, the National Assembly was finally able to obtain confidence from the applicants in the request for a referendum that the National Assembly did its work properly and well. It is very important that we come to the conclusion that they trust the National Assembly. I did not see that this would be the case for the procedure that took place within the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, from the very beginning, when I ask what I think about the case, I am talking about the fact that it is certainly at least the objective responsibility of the Minister of the Interior for the loss of 36 papers, on which was exactly the number of signatures required for the referendum to be signed. Even after the responses of the Minister of the Interior, my opinion has not changed, so at least what it is, I am still convinced that we can talk about objective responsibility, but I would be very pleased to have a clear message from the Government, if you like, to the Prime Minister of the Government, as well as the Minister of the Interior, that these objective responsibilities for the protection of the rule of law are still well aware that what is in the constitution of the world has really been almost misused: the will of the electorate and the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. We've got some cancellations and some replacements. The next is Mr. Franz Pukšič and then Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Following the findings of the Commission's inspection to prevent corruption and the information officer, it is not possible to determine where the error occurred. I would suggest that all these three institutions ask themselves whether it makes any sense in this country that they exist. Is it not a pity for the taxpayer's money if the three institutions cannot determine where the error occurred when a few pages disappeared from one such pile of paper? Or maybe you could just look at the photocopying machine if you can, and if you can see everything that's being copied, in this case, we don't have that data until today. However, it might be possible to determine whether there were blank leaves in between and whether the photocopying machine had picked up so many sheets at once and had not copied them. I just don't believe these findings! If we are unable in this country to figure out where to lose some leaves, how we will be able to identify and find those who, say, have recently encouraged and paid demonstrators! How will we be able to determine who stole so much money from our banks in 20 years and paid it peacefully every year? How we will be able to determine and who is able to determine in this country that someone does not get a loan on Wednesday, they call his dad on Thursday — and on Monday they get a loan! Of course, without any insurance and so on. Well, it's not just a crime investigation yet. All of this is one of the great shames of institutions that unfortunately do what they do in this country. Another time. Yesterday, the President of the Government mentioned, inter alia, how one case of a Member from the Court of First Instance to the Supreme Court took place in a very short period of time. A praiseworthy institution. But again, it was something small, justified, probably justified if the court so found out, and we have no right to get involved in it. How can so many things become obsolete, so many things remain in drawers? How can it happen that someone who has hidden the tax administration - and who has already found this in the past year - more than one million euros is still not suing today, so he has not yet come to trial? How can this happen? Are we really capable, or are our institutions capable of doing this for small fish and not for all the big ones? As far as Minister Gorenak is concerned – by the way, of course, I will not support interpolation – as far as he is concerned: today, it is likely that there will be a third interpolation in January, February, March. In short, interpellations are likely to happen against him, because one political party, the Positive Slovenia, certainly wants to avoid working in an area that is responsible for not having institutions under the Ministry do their job and not having to come up with what should have happened after the investigations. But I want to know whether there have been investigations with the President of Positive Slovenia – that is, investigations have been justified – whether there are now all other indications that there are allegations of cases coming to court and so on, or not. As for the signatures themselves, already that day, the night that this happened, I told behind this pay phone what the case was like in Belgium -- although there, I don't know, three years ago one of the pedophiles escaped from the court -- what happened and then two of them resigned in four hours, I think even three ministers. But there is no responsibility here in the National Assembly; it was also amazing today to present an interpretation by the proposer of how he put himself on the side of the National Assembly, even though the first reactions when it happened were not like that. So, what happened now? Why should such an interest be defended by an institution in which we are alone? First, you should put the trash in your own institution at your own doorstep, and then you should go and tell your neighbor that he doesn't have a clean one. That should be the primary interest. Look, it's very simple; who's really responsible? Only if we compare with one of the smallest of the congregations. If citizens demanded something to happen, they would deal with the congregation, bring those papers, or whatever else they wanted to do to the congregation. That secretary, the administrator who accepts this, must comply with the applicable legislation, the procedure in force, not with the administrative procedure, but only with the applicable procedure for office operations. It is clear from the very conduct of the office business process that you must record the document, mark it, and write it in that record. So that the number of sheets that have been filed has not been counted, and that this has not been written down is, of course, more than negligence. But let's leave! From here on out, the National Assembly needs some information. And what is the Ministry of the Interior? Yes, nothing more than a state institution that manages the proceedings to the National Assembly – as the President of the National Assembly then informs investors, as in that case the municipality shall inform its citizens, but not an administrative unit, if the municipality needs any information from the administrative unit or from any other body. So, his task is, in fact, the National Assembly knows that in the end the process will be conducted in the form of management of the administrative procedure and at the beginning it would be determined by the person responsible for this, which will lead things so, in this country we stumble and fall down on what happens everywhere – my colleague told me that they counted a million buttons in Muri, later they could weigh them. [[...]] To prevent that from happening in this employment and in the number of employees in the National Assembly, the kind words of irresponsibility and great shame within the National Assembly itself are kind. Well, surely the object of the opposition is to lead in the direction of affairs, hunger in these affairs and purely political purposes. Clearly, the mission of the opposition is not to control the coalition, but to overthrow the coalition. I am convinced that it is so simple because of the interest of some individuals that they are so much more concerned about how they are so damn afraid of the validity of the bad bank law. But indeed, some fear that they too — not to say their own — all that is dearest to them in life. But apparently, to solve or fear how to get through what they might have been doing — some of the disastrous things that have been happening in this country — we are where we are today. There was something else about that time. She took positive Slovenia 6 hours and 50 minutes for today's 18-hour debate, so only she took one third of her time. Then it is evident to the minister why he has so much time if he has to respond to all the inaccuracies and irregularities that are just happening against everything himself, of course. You know, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, given that political parties have made all kinds of decisions on behalf of the leaders of the parliamentary groups or their representatives, in whatever way, presented and expressed their views on this, it would be significantly better if, after these several discussions today, I had been decided by the opposition – because the coalition should not do so – that the opposition cannot propose such a procedural proposal to give up the debate because it is not the Ljubljana City Council, which does not allow the opposition to debate – that is, the National Assembly – that the opposition should decide and say: We have said our position, make what is necessary – that is, the vote. In order to address Agenda 46, which is discussed by the Economic Chamber, which discusses the reduction of judicial proceedings. So, what could we do here together to improve payment discipline, to raise trust in managers? Among other things, this agenda is to increase the responsiveness of the administrative authorities, then lower operating costs, where the Chamber of Economics itself assumes that around 350 million could be saved due to administrative obstacles and wonders who has ever contributed to the fact that we have so many of these terrible administrative obstacles and so on. In short, there are more important things here, so what and how to do for a new start-up of the economy, because without the start of the economy and without new jobs, we will not be able to repay the credits you have leased over the past three years. So we're not going to pay back the 8.7 billion you've spent – in fact, we don't know where or how – either interest or all that. In short, it would be significantly better and more confident by citizens and citizens, as well as by the higher reputations, the National Assembly would be given the opportunity to conclude such discussions and to pursue concrete things, including those of the Economic Chamber. However, this proposal must come from your side. Of course, because otherwise we'd be reading certain things and it wouldn't be right. This possibility of discussion is certainly, and it is up to you to decide to end it and to go to more important things, such as identifying political responsibility, when three institutions have already found that they cannot find anything – in short, for my terms unacceptable! It is not for us to determine where the error occurred, but for those who have been paid for it, but if they do not know, if they fail, then it is also a great responsibility on them according to the state of the spirit that is in this country. Thus, it is the greatest responsibility, which has been shown recently, that it is because of the failure of some that things fall down on the prosecution and the courts, as does the Balkan warrior and so on. In short, it is incomprehensible, and people cannot understand it, and we do not contribute to it with such political debates, but would contribute to the fact that if we went where we would give a sign, a signal – even before the demonstrations on Friday, which will take place in the country – that we know, however, some things are moving forward socially, as some of these things have already happened when the 2013 budget was adopted. At the same time, I set myself up for the issue of child nutrition to support it, if it was already given to higher education institutions on the other hand to have higher or higher wages than they have, and that they would be able to settle all of those, as they had before, and would not put into the savings budget. I will conclude by saying that the nation is not hungry for political affairs – what you are producing in the opposition now – but the nation is hungry for the fact that the institutions that should work do not work.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, then Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government – perhaps also Minister Vinko Gorenak is watching us. In the opening, let me explain that I do not challenge the constitutional right of Positive Slovenia that, under Article 118 of the Constitution, it has submitted an interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak. This is very useful in democracy and also a common instrument of the opposition in particular, of course, it is not said that only the opposition, is a constitutional instrument that is often used, and it is likely that this coalition or ministers of this coalition will receive ever-increasing such interpretations or demands in the future. Of course, always, but also in this case, the interpellations' proponents, as well as the ministers' opponents, point to him with their finger and yell, it's your fault, you have to go and so on. But it is likely that the Golden Rule of Sin and the Throwing of Stones still apply to these and all such claims and accusations. Of course, I do not agree with those who say that we are going to burn 18 hours for this debate today. That is not true, we will burn for about a thousand 800 hours for this debate, which is also nothing wrong, everything is in accordance with the law, the rules of procedure and the constitution. But a thousand 800 hours is about a fund of hours for one worker per year and I wonder how much better it will be after today's debate and after the vote on the interpolation people will live on the left and right banks of Mure or in the eastern part of Slovenia, which is, as you know, a strong region under the European average. I also wonder how much more democracy will be from this day forward. I hope to say the answer to that is pure zero. However, I hope, and from this city number 90, I demand that we all, ladies and gentlemen, learn something from the entanglement of signatures and never repeat similar mistakes again. Events relating to the signatures for the referendum initiative first point to how she was right and how the New Slovenia Group – the smallest of us – proposes a provision in the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative that a request for a referendum – in my mind Article 90 of the Constitution – should be tabled with a certain number of electoral signatures collected at a certain time interval; and most importantly, these signatures must be certified. This means that the proposers must submit their signatures on their own hand and sign in front of the official at the local office or administrative unit on their own hand, and that that official shall verify the identification of that proposer with a view to the central register of the population. If we had such an arrangement today, we would not have this debate today. I'm sure we can all agree with that. As someone who has worked for more than 20 years in the field of informationizing business processes in his own time to the biggest coffeemaker in Europe, I cannot understand, I simply cannot understand this problem with signatures. I can't understand that we have natural numbers – these are the numbers we count on: one, two, three, sixty-six, ninety, two thousand five hundred, forty thousand, these are natural numbers – and that these natural numbers in this mandate are causing us such great, terrible problems. I can't understand! I will not deal with the theory of the masses and with the theory of the numbers, but by finding that we – again using the first person of the crowd – already in the twenty-two years of independence of the Republic of Slovenia we have simply failed to agree on some procedure, an exact procedure, how to deal with the matter, such as a requirement for a referendum initiative, whether it be with our internal instructions, either with the rules of procedure or, if you want, with the implementation of ISO 9001 standards. Although I did not agree to red tape procedures, but the procedure must be clearly written, the documents accompanying this procedure must be documents accompanying this process, either as a pre-eminent in terms of storage documents, or as a pre-receivable record, in particular, that documents, in this case signatures, should be counted. I'm surprised that even the proponents didn't have those signatures counted, which really surprises me. Earlier, my colleague Pukšič spoke – since we spoke on this topic yesterday – he spoke about how we used to do inventory in Mura Yes, Mura, when she had 6,000 500 employees, not only at the time, she always did inventory and, as you know, there were buttons in Mura. [[...]] We counted the buttons, there were several hundred thousand, maybe even over a million, and we counted them on inventory. Here, however, we simply do not count such important matters as signatures to initiate the referendum procedure. As I mentioned in the introduction, interpellation is a constitutional category, I respect it, colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia, so that there will be no misunderstandings. Under Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, interpellation is brought against the work of the government or the work of the individual minister. On the basis of the interpretation tabled, the debate shall be held in the National Assembly and, following the non-trust proposal, the Members shall then also make a statement. Under the Constitution, therefore, the interpretation is against the Minister of the Institute of Labour Verification. Since the individual and specific responsibility of the Ministry's employees or officials, led by Minister Gorenak, has not been established, this is the Ministry of the Interior, neither can the individual and objective responsibility of the Minister. Under a constitutional provision alone, therefore, the work of the Minister is essential for interpretation and voting. Therefore, the essence of interpretation and voting is the work of the Minister; the concept of work can also be understood in a broader context as the work of the Minister. If the work or functioning of the Minister cannot be justified, the interpretation is not only unfounded but also grammatically entirely without a constitutional basis. If the individual and specific liability of the employees or officials of the Ministry were determined, the Minister could be objectively responsible, otherwise not. Interpellation is therefore a distinctly individual constitutional institution on the work of the minister, and the interpretation in question seeks to impose objective responsibility on the minister, which is a constitutional nonsense. Since all three are the competent authorities that you all listed today – I will not repeat them; therefore, since all three competent authorities have found that there is no criminal responsibility of anyone at the Ministry of the Interior or there is no or no fault at all, it is not possible to find out, nor in any case can Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Minister of Interrogation. I will continue to support the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, and he will enjoy my support, and indeed he has a difficult portfolio, so I am not excluding the repetition of today's exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The late activist, leader of the 1971 student riots in Slovenia, Ambassador and Member of the National Assembly Jaš Zlobec, said: "He who is silent is guilty." I feel too much that the representatives of the ruling coalition are silent or want to silence something that undermines our integrity and reputation in both the domestic and foreign public; us, Members, the minister, or ministers, the government and, of course, the state. If you have failed to completely overthrow this reputation to this day, it has definitely been demolished by the principles and further demolished by both the leader of the largest coalition parliamentary group and, of course, by Minister Gorenak. If you have not already, Dr. Gorenak, resigned yourself because of the theft of referendum votes, you should, because of an abusive or insulting dictionary to us, interpelling proponents. I am not surprised that you treat elected representatives so disrespectfully – until we are all 'gotofi' – we are elected representatives of the people – I am not surprised that the attitude towards citizens is as you have shown today. Prime Minister Janez Janša answered my question about the theft of referendum votes: "The loss of signatures is a scandal, this should not have happened!" Then he said, quote, "If we were the opposition and someone would lose our signatures, they would also demand responsibility and make noise." End of quote. This noise, knowing some of you, I'm sure it would be much bigger than we are. We are very kind in our interpretation and in citing our arguments why we should really give up or why we should be withdrawn. Today's defence, Dr. Gorenak, should, if we had a shred of morals and ethics, begin with an apology to the injured initiator, with an apology in truth to the electorate and the electorate and to the public that their constitutional rights were violated due to the stigmatism of the state authorities. Instead, of course, arrogantness, cynicism, sublimeness and in your enthusiasm for defending your own skin, you talk about that the promoters of interpretation, I quote, "you are counting on a conflict in the coalition". No, Mr. Secretary! We're counting on there to be any other rule of law in this country! This is what we're counting on, not the dispute between you, but the fact that there is still a state of law in this country! I am therefore not surprised by those MPs and parliamentary groups who blindly defend the theft of referendum signatures, the theft of human will! Thieves, distinguished gentlemen from SLS, New Slovenia and DeSUS! If we were to follow the conspiracy theory, as young fellow Tonin says, we would be wondering whether it is true that one of the twenty who handled the MNZ incorrectly was protecting the documentation, which was written by the anti-corruption commission, that one of them recently employed is a wife of the SDS High Representative. And we're not gonna give this a hard time. My colleagues, what really worries me the most is the fact that in the last few months, I will not say months, but years and even today we are talking about form, not content. That's why people are on the road. Do you know why they're on the road? When it comes to arms trafficking in the '90s, we're hiding behind the statute of limitations. When it comes to misuse of credit, he hides behind the secrecy of the names of those who have been granted questionable credit. When it comes to Patria, it is behind the question whether the evidence obtained in another country about bribery is also applicable to our judicial system – and here I agree with colleague Irgle: it is true that the prosecution or the judiciary is ineffective in the case of arms dealers in the 1990s or with a drug dealer in 2012! Not just sometimes, of course, that there is a blurring of the story by talking about the form, but not about the content. We're going through this too! What Mr Tanko was talking about today is over. He was talking about another story. To cover up this story! Just like I don't want to go down, and I'm not going to talk about my buddy Pukšič and his garden for thermal water, plumbing, sewerage or a cemetery in Destrunnik, because these three skeletons fell out of his closet to blur out something that's on the agenda today. We can talk about this, we can talk about Jankovic; we can talk about everything. But today's story tanges disrespect for fundamental human rights in this country, respect for the referendum. The places of the referendum signatures are something that's unheard of. I keep saying this, but you don't listen to me! You're talking about whether it was 4:42 or it was 3:35 — what do I care! I don't care if you lost, stole, burned, destroyed, I don't know what you were doing with it! You don't have any copies of these signatures that you've checked, and you've even managed to prevent a referendum initiative if you hadn't been found, as has been said today, with your fingers in marmalade. And you were found by the unions that kept these signatures with them, of course! We're troubleshooting the form, not the content. See, Slovenia is part of an international space and cannot behave as a child with this involvement in the world. Let it be, maybe it'll be a little weird when I say we're not the Pedenjped kid, who's a hero and a root, and there's no one like him, says this song. I think in a song he says, "Let the devil himself be at the door, he doesn't want to run to Mommy, but only his hands do before his eyes and he says, 'I'm not.'" We can't act like he's not "me"! We're all in sight, everybody! Ambassadors of other countries accredited in Slovenia, of course, write reports to their governments. Television, electronic media, print media report, broadcast news to the world that we're one bantu country because we're losing referendum signatures. No one wonders how our country's reputation is being violated. There are standards and democratic methods in the developed and democratic world to prevent the call for a legislative referendum. These are legal ways to resist this, but in these same democratic countries, with these democratic standards, they also know that it is only in the undemocratic world of dictatorial rulers and, of course, arrogant ministers of repressive apparatus of the state that steals and cheats their citizens. Dr. Gorenak, with the theft of referendum signatures you have placed this country, this young country that has grown on human rights, alongside Ukraine, Belarus, North Korea and Syria! And that hurts. You've told me before how long I've been here. Long time! From the moment this country began to work — by the way, I was not in the Communist Union, as you were, until two years after we had struck Janša before prison and demanded his release. In the international community, we have lost some more of Slovenia's credibility when this government has already good principles. The democratic tradition in the developed world is, or I suppose, that in such a case in England or in Germany, an official whose department would participate in such a process would immediately resign; and in Denmark, Finland, Sweden, if you like, the whole government would resign. Therefore, Dr. Gorenak you are objectively and subjectively responsible to attempt to embezzle and rob citizens of Slovenia, you have tried to steal their only legal but fundamental right to check their will at the referendum. Therefore, we should either resign ourselves or resign ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I'm listening to the same story and the same way, only the name of the party changes. This is the only thing you have — we're a little older, otherwise it's all the same. Let's talk about the row, you're talking about the theft. Nice of you to talk about the theft, go to the investigators, the criminals, and tell them who stole it. I don't talk about it because I don't know, it's one thing. We should apologize, I said I would apologize five times a day, if necessary, even to the instigators when it was found that my employees had done so. I'm not going to this time! Because I'd confess to some of the employees who didn't prove it to be an institution. It's a gun sale. Isn't that a lovely theme? The darkness for all eternity! Of course, you manipulated him again and said he was hiding behind the statute of limitations. That's not true! Nothing in that case is obsolete, everything was definitively decided in the final instance. In this respect, you are exactly the same as the leader of the North, for instance. At the celebration of the North, the leader of the North publicly compares weapons with postwar killings, and they have not been dug out of the holes, and this has long been investigated. Look, this is an ideology that belongs to you and belongs to him. As far as the banks are concerned, you were talking about everything being hidden behind the secrets – yes, that's what the banks are doing! Criminal police, however, have access to this by the methods used by the criminal police, the legal path and so on. We'll talk about it, we'll talk about it, and we'll see what it's like, especially now that you're out of the police force. As far as ZK is concerned. With this I never had any problems, but at the time of Slovenia's independence I got out. And you say you've never been in a party, but today you're the heiress of this party. And it's the perfect heir! As for the other things, Mr Möderndorfer, of course, read a half sentence earlier; I hope he can read the entire sentence. His education convinces me that he can do it, and he knows it, he read, "The request for access is denied." See what it really says, and it says: "The request for access is partly rejected and partial access to the following documents is accepted: Report on the implementation and protection of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gorenak, for the period 22 to 29..." – he only asked me for 26, but he got 22 to 29. — "in which the names of security guards and on-call inspectors and operational information for 22-25 are covered, from 27 to 29" So, he got all the data he wanted for a longer period of time than he wanted, so the names, the names of the security guards and the security features are hidden, not my path. Come on! What else did he not get? Official tags So he received official marks, but in part, "... official marks of the Interior Minister, in the statement of Medved Dušanka of 21. 11th and Adović Almira of 7th. 11. cover the birth data, according to Petrović Ivana's statement of 7. 11." [[...]] So he got more than we saw. However, access to documents, travel orders and costing are denied because they do not exist. As Minister, I have no journals and no business travel orders and no costs are incurred in relation to my travels, even if I travel through Slovenia. Well, he can't get something that doesn't exist. The rest I got for a week and not just for that day. There's still a few things I need to respond to. Mr Möderndorfer, the leader of your parliamentary group, said that 2 000 733 signatories had checked 28 persons for two days. Besides reading poorly and reading half a sentence, he also misreads. 2 000 733 signatures did not check 28 persons for two days, but two referendum initiatives did check 28 people in two days, which is true. 154 few signatories were checked by the head of the sector for four days – again it is not true! She checked the relevant signatures and not the inadequate ones because the inadequate one was inadequate. The one who doesn't have an election right doesn't have one, if he's a foreigner, he can't have one either. One sheet for holding, he said, was checked among the leaves for the bad bank in the first check and one sheet for the other. It's not true again. Both times, that's 25. Ten over seven. 11. We got two wrong lists from the National Assembly: a list from holding in a list of bad banks. Of course, before, Mrs Kociper spoke about the crime, you are now talking about the theft and so on. So, you know more than institutions know; you know more than the police know, you know more than the anti-corruption commission, and so on and automatically talk about the crime. Someone also quoted Mr. Willi Kovacic as saying that this gentleman had difficulty collecting the signatures of TES 6. Is that right? Well, this gentleman says, "A statement. With regard to the claims that there was also a referendum initiative on the guarantee for TES 6 to the disappearance of signatures, I declare that this was not the case. The attitude of the representatives of the DZ and the MNZ to the initiative and the material we have handed over has been normal and correct, so I reject all forms of manipulation in relation to our initiative in the political account that is to be held. The problem of constitutional review is different. It is the application of the law on referendum human initiative in contravention of the purpose of the law... " and so on. So this gentleman himself sent this document – not to me, he sent it to you. I don't understand why you're referring to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, then Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Due to the nature of the role of the Minister of the Interior, interpellations or vote on non-trust have often been received. Most of them have been protected by each coalition so far, mainly because of party discipline or even due to credible defence, and have been able to continue their work. However, it has never happened before that there would be an attempt to prevent the referendum initiative of the electorate to apply for a legislative referendum, in this particular case, on the so-called bad bank, among the indications of an internal minister under whose competence it is to verify the signatures of citizens and citizens. So one of the ministers tried to disable the referendum. It is therefore no coincidence that the President of the Government said that the disappearance of signatures was a scandal that should not have happened. That is why the opposition will also vote in favour of Minister Vinko Gorenak. How the coalition works is more or less clear, but let us be surprised. Some will listen carefully and decide in the end. Yesterday, we also received the Commission's final report on anti-corruption, which states, literally, "that individual staff, both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Interior, which handled the referendum initiative, did not ensure adequate recording and traceability of documents, contrary to the rules governing co-ordinated". End of quote. The Commission further notes that, in a specific case, this is due to years of inadequate practice in documenting. The Commission also notes that none of the two authorities can demonstrate, with a satisfactory degree of probability, that it is not the case with him that the deportation or loss of the leaves has occurred. Nor did the Commission detect any facts or indications that would justify the suspicion that this alienation of the loss of ballots by the signatures of the electorate came about by inadvertently. The Commission also found that physical handling or the protection of the entire dossier was not adequate and contrary to the rules at the Ministry of the Interior in addition to irregularities in recording. The circumstances of the notification of missing signatures by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as assessed by the Commission, justify the statement, I am literally stating that "this part was either intentional and delegated as a result of the strong interest of the policy to prevent a referendum or a negligence of the duty of due diligence for proper, timely, effective and quality implementation by law and other rules of specific tasks and obligations of the Ministry". In the summary of the findings, the Commission calls for at least an apology to the electorate and the electorate, a more active and frank effort to identify and clear up the causes of this harmful situation and a willingness to recognise and accept responsibility and to take on the consequences of liability. All we can do is join in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole, behind her is Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Hello, all present! Interpellation is an important instrument of parliamentary supervision. Interpellation also responds to the expectations of citizens and citizens. It is the fact that, as a representative of the executive branch of power, the Minister has tried to prevent citizens from exercising the direct democracy provided by the Constitution. It is the suspension of the duty of professional diligence to deal with signatures of voter support to apply for a legislative referendum on bad bank law. The problem is the deliberate delay in informing the National Assembly and thus the electorate of whether the initiative meets certain conditions under the law, making it impossible for the initiators to complete the initiative within legal time limits in accordance with the law. The initiative was rejected, the procedure concluded to the detriment of the initiators. I will focus on the risk process resulting from the management and management of the referendum initiative in the National Assembly. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission concluded that the handling of documentary material in the specific case of the proposed referendum initiative to the Bad Bank Act did not deviate from the multi-annual practice of handling documents by the National Assembly in general or with past referendum initiatives. While some exceptions were also involved, in this case, the referendum initiative, which also included interpolation, was a time component of delay. In the case of the TES 6 referendum initiative, it has been shown that, if it wants to, when the signatures have been reviewed and verified within two days. In the course of the conduct of the National Assembly, it was also found by the Commission to prevent corruption that it was a practice in line with established practice. It is very important that the National Assembly always preserves the original signatures of the referendum initiative and on this basis it was also possible to establish that the signatures were lost. Of course, it was also well recorded by the union and the case could also be established. KPK further noted that in the National Assembly, the storage and insurance of physical initiatives and associated lists, signatures and personal data of electorates and voters were carried out appropriately and that it did not constitute risk factors that could result in loss of missing documents. The response of the National Assembly to the perception of the lost, missing pages with the signatures of the electorate and electorate was quick. An internal review of the business was carried out immediately and in full. There will be no more of this in the future! In order to take due account of future such irregularities or to provide for the possibility of identifying the causes of professional errors and irregularities, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly issued an order on 20 November, which also states the Commission for the prevention of corruption, by which the procedure and handling, including the recording of a referendum initiative and lists or lists of signatures and personal data of electors and voters, will sign the initiative to register in accordance with the instructions on office operations and handling such works or documents. All documents of the National Assembly coming to the National Assembly are important. With full compliance with the rules in practice, this will significantly reduce or eliminate the risk of recurrence, according to the Commission's assessment to prevent corruption. This is also an extremely important message for the continued confidence of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the work of the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the temple of democracy, whose reputation for such events is then well established. It is also being launched because the National Assembly approves ministers, ministers, and confirms the Government. And that's why trust was conceived. The people who elected us as ambassadors and Members of the National Assembly are disappointed to see that the voting machine of the coalition is ready, vote in laws that do not go in the direction of the development of Slovenia, but only in the direction of saving, unfortunately also separating people, including discriminatory attitudes towards people, in the direction of decommissioning of public education, public health and universities. The pension reform was also supported by the opposition and showed that it is constructive, that it wants the development of Slovenia, that it wants good in Slovenia, citizens and citizens, but with proposals to support large investments, including new jobs. Today's debate on the tabled interpretation was based on a shift of guilt and responsibility to the National Assembly, including the President of the National Assembly, including the Secretary-General. Minister Gorenak said that there were irregularities and delays in the procedure for signatures relating to the referendum initiative on the Bad Bank Act, that the interim report was indeed burdened by the Ministry or tried to burden it. The fact is that it was a abandonment of the length of professional diligence to deal with the signatures of voter support for the submission of a request for a referendum on a bad bank. Even today, we wonder where the lost signatures are; fortunately, they are originals in the National Assembly. Interpellation is a loss of confidence of voters and voters in the legality of the Ministry of the Interior and damage to the reputation and integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as it confirms the ministerial team; it also confirms the National Assembly as the competent authority for the exercise of the right to referendum. It was to prevent the exercise of constitutional rights, the right to a referendum, the democratic right of people, the expression of the human will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's vote on the submitted interpretation will show whether we will vote in favour of the regime or vote in favour of the legal state in Slovenia. I am in favour of the rule of law, so I will vote in favour of the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, followed by Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering an eminent institution of the opposition, an intervention against the Prime Minister. Since I have great respect for the parliamentary institutions, these classical institutions of parliamentary democracy, I must say and express today the deep disappointment that you have prepared an interpretation that is most miserable of all the interpretations to which I have witnessed in the long years of Parliament's presence. This interpretation, I think, does not meet the basic criteria for interpolation; and more than that, we have before us reports from the three committees dealing with the case at the expense of the Minister, and all three reports indicate and show that the minister's guilt is impossible to prove. And you're going through this and today you're making a huge accusation to the minister that he was stealing, that he threw away the signatures, that he wanted to prevent the referendum, and I don't know what else you've made up and you're going to make it up. This is the low conduct of the Messengers. I am surprised that so far I have not detected a member of the opposition who would have blocked himself from these low-level interventions by this party, Positive Slovenia. There's been a lot of saying here, we know if we're going to the chronology of events, the signatures are lost somewhere, and that's a scandal for me too. However, when we discussed how our investors in the past had been bearing signatures for the referendum signatures, Mr Grims said yesterday that he had consistently requested a record of how many leaves he had brought, what he had tabled, because he did not trust the then, say, leadership of the National Assembly. And I don't know why no management and no secretary-general has learned from this positive investor practice that this would be part of a positive practice that is also defined under internal rules. It was said that such a practice was based on trust, as stated in some statements, when this matter broke out that it was 15, 16 years old. So, at the time that I was already a Member, and at the time, Mrs Veliščkov's secretary-general and internal minister, Mr Bandelj, was. Apparently, they set up some practice through the thumb that didn't follow the rules of the game, the rules. Unfortunately, such a scratch also persisted in this house. But the hypocrisy is when Roman Jakič, who was also a Member at the time, criticises and accuses the places and I don't know what, and talks about how terrible and terrible the Minister tried to prevent the constitutional right to referendum. Look, I must mention my colleague Roman Jakič, when the LDS, with its satellites in that government, prevented the implementation of the referendum challenge on the majority electoral system and the clear findings of the Constitutional Court as to the outcome. At that time, his boss, Mr Anderlich, said that "no god, there is no one who can force me to accept what the Constitutional Court has decided". It is similar to your logic today; you do not recognize any commissions that have been officially appointed, and colleagues and colleagues, you are part of the blame and responsibility for the swamps in which Slovenia is now, because you are moving from party to party and are carriers of bad habits and bad practices – many of you! It was also said here by the leader of the parliamentary group and later that the minister, in doubting that there had been no irregularities at the Ministry, had distorted the reputation of the National Assembly. Of course, I am sensitive to the reputation of the National Assembly and to all the exploits that destroy it most. How can MPs from Positive Slovenia talk about undermining the reputation of the National Assembly when their president, when elected as an MP, said he could not be seen here if there was no Prime Minister and fled back to the city council. This is the greatest disgrace that has ever occurred in this country! This is a humiliation of Parliament! In every eccentric democratic country, such policies would no longer be policies. We'd wipe it out. The public would have erased him! And to commemorate the disgracing of the reputation of the National Assembly by Members who sat in the city council yesterday, where the debate of the opposition was not allowed, I also listened to the reports, radio and television when a radio journalist said that the debate on the abuse of Mayor Jankovic of directors did not take place this morning. It has become kind of normal for them not to discuss it there, and the abuse that Mr Jankovic made the following day after the investigations in his family, when it was a suspicion of the corruption and crime of some members of the Jankovic family, when he called the schoolmasters and they had to worship him and support his actions, which were justified in the suspicion of crimes. It's the biggest abuse! Imagine those officials who were then abused and forced to raise young people and children when they had to consciously consent to kneeling before the mayor to support his crimes, his illegal conduct! Apparently, he rewarded them with a trip to London or I don't know what it is that all the institutions of the rule of law in this country are further abused. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u48	How can you not be ashamed? Me?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u49	Mr Jerovšek, please return to the subject of interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u50	Yes, two of them were talking about how the minister was trying to harm the reputation of the National Assembly. And such Members, who do not agree in the role of municipal councillors to discuss obvious violations of the law in the city’s world, insult the National Assembly and destroy its reputation. And these are the worst destroyers of the reputation of the National Assembly! Nor was it allowed to debate, I heard, there, threats with the mayor's weapons. At the same time, I'm not surprised that you're signing any structure that is supposed to point away from you to others through the "get the thief" system. I have to say something else, because there is also evidence of your procedures for the investment of interpretations and signatures. It bothers me, too, that the police came to the National Assembly. I have to tell the minister if he has any authority to give the devil's honest consideration at any other attempt, yes or no. However, what was justified and not demented by Mr Möderndorfer, as Mr Minister has said, the chronology of all this, the arrival of a criminalist, I must say that I am personally convinced that the criminalist was lured into a trap, because you invited her exactly at the time that Mrs Renata Brunskola presided over that you were agreed that she would immediately interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, that you would be making as much an affair as possible. I must say, it was the prosecution's department that directed it. If the D.A. ordered her to go talk or interview, whether you signed or not, then I don't understand such a prosecutor. Whether it is directed towards a fair investigation, a clarification of the facts, or whether it is directed at what the parliamentary group and Mr Möderndorfer have abused as a trap, further charges against the minister, that he has lured the criminalist, as I have already said, into a trap and that he has made a scandal here. Ladies and gentlemen, you have afforded so many scandals in the city hall, here that some of you should seriously consider whether it is not your turn to give up on those who do not respect the National Assembly, who do not allow themselves to be discussed by parliamentarians or saints in other roles. These are unacceptable procedures and should at least be ashamed of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I can see two hands. Mr. Möderndorfer, would you like to discuss it? Mrs. Brunskol, what do you want? For what? [[advertising from the hall]] You were appointed, but this appointment was not about your debate, if I understand correctly. Mr. Möderndorfer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u52	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u53	Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I have raised my hand for the replica for one reason. I was personally named, with Brunskola's last name, as far as I know there's no one here with that last name, that's the first point. Secondly, also in connection with the debate I had myself. In this part of the debate, I have also seen some of my statements in this implementation. So I've asked you for a replica, and I'm asking you now. Otherwise, I would procedurally say that as Vice-President of the National Assembly at that time – what Mr Jerovšek referred to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u55	What do you have now, a replica or a procedural one?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u56	I'd like a replica, if you'll allow me a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u57	Well, then, please explain what you were misinterpreted about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. As Chairman of the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u59	Please, if you can get your time back. Here you go, you've spent about a minute and you keep going, there's gonna be time, then we'll sort these things out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u60	As Vice-President of the National Assembly, I chaired the meeting as I will today at 3 p.m. The procedural proposal by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Head of the Positive Slovenia Group, stated that they were criminals in the house and that he proposed and requested the suspension of the meeting of the National Assembly. Under the Rules of Procedure – I may not have been well understood by some fellow Members at the time, including probably by my colleague Jerovska – but under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have the right to suspend the meeting as a chair when I assess that this is a situation or a situation which also makes me feel that this suspension is justified. In view of the fact that I held a meeting of the National Assembly as Vice-President, I have found that I am not aware that we would be criminals in the house and that this would impede the smooth work of Members and Members of the National Assembly. In this case, Members of the Parliament's Group Positive Slovenia were in some way neglected because they had to talk to criminals, but not to participate in regular meetings of the National Assembly. That is why I interrupted the meeting and did not take it any other way, and any other chairman of the National Assembly could have known this if he had considered that it was a precedent in the National Assembly. In the case at hand, this was the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u61	Well, that really explained how you acted at the time, but it certainly wasn't a replica of your debate you just had. However, Mr Möderndorfer took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President. As I have already said, I will explain some of the clarifications from the debate of the Minister and the other Members and Members of Parliament, which have been discussed so far with regard to the mother alone. Because we've heard several different theories today about how I managed to lure someone into a trap and possibly abuse them, let me say that I probably didn't just abuse the criminalist, but I also abused the minister and everyone else. That's what it's like to understand. However, as I have already said and foretold, I will now say the version that I know of which I was involved and not the Minister, unless the Minister listened to some other box of my phone conversation, which I am not surprised to say, because it has already been explained to me at the College of the President of the National Assembly that they are listening to me as the leader of the Group of Members, because I am the leader of the largest Group of Members and I am protected in this way. You're not gonna believe this! I mean, I looked fat, I said, 'cause that's the funniest story I've ever heard. Look out! They listen to me so that they can protect me — just from whom? Who are they gonna protect me from? Well, let's go back. Mrs. CSI, when I didn't know she was a criminal, when I was just told that they called the police, she really called me the day before, and the next day I tried to call her again, but we couldn't hear each other. When we spoke at a certain hour, which, of course, the minister mentioned, and this is the right one, she explained her purpose to call me. She made it very clear to me that she wanted to have a conversation with the six Members, and she also gave them all to me. At the time of her first interview, I made it very clear to her that I was protesting that any conversation would be done, but at the same time, if that happened, I would first talk to the Members, and second, more importantly, that if it did happen, all Members would come together. Together, because I have these individual interrogations a little bit full of suitcases, because it's a little different for everyone. Especially when the Members call me and explain it to me because it was not told anywhere. On the contrary, Commissioner Melita Župevc, not only signed herself 12 times, this police wanted to have even the signatures of all Members from the minutes of the presence of the Clubs and so on. He's never heard of it, and he's heard it all, and so on. Because he always hears only what he wants to hear or what he has decided; but no matter what. When we had this conversation, I told her very clearly that I would call her back and let her know. When I called her back, I said we had an agreement, and I made it very clear, because I wanted to make it very clear at first that we would not even agree to communicate with the police, but you know what that means. The moment you do it, they say, "Look at the fragment, they're hiding something!" We said it's okay, there's no problem to just let them come. I asked when they could come, and she said, "You suggest!" I said we have until two o'clock in the afternoon, because at two o'clock one of the Members will no longer be present. Are we doing this today or are we doing it another day? Mrs. CSI said we should do it as soon as possible. I told you to come right away. And that's all that was out of this conversation and nothing was agreed! Of course, the minister did not add what he heard from the hearing. In fact, the point is that I told the CSI one thing very clearly in advance: "Ma'am, I hope you're aware of what that means. You will come to the National Assembly, and I will ask that the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended and I will make a whole hall because it is outrageous for me that the police are coming to the National Assembly at all!" That's what Mrs CSI knew, too, and she didn't comment. I said, "O.K.," and that's the whole story. There was no other story. It was only when I came to the sitting room that I actually saw who was the chairman, and believe me, I would have done it anyway, no matter who presided. Even if I did not interrupt the meeting, my intention was to make it very clear that the police were in the National Assembly. What an indisputable fact she was! And no one called her, and I also made it very clear that the police weren't on the phone and you can't call her a hello pizza. I didn't say that because I'd make a fool out of myself, but because some people think you can make such a fool out of these organs. That's not how it works, Minister! When we did this interview, which was very short, I also made it clear in advance that we didn't even agree to any graphic research and I don't know what else. At the same time, we have repeatedly asked what status Members have in this hearing. The lady kept saying it was about collecting data. What's interesting is why the criminalist didn't invite every Member of Parliament individually to the home. Why the National Assembly? I didn't get that answer until today! Nobody wants to answer that because they don't care. But for all of this, the Minister was disappointed, of course, because the society of lawyers of Slovenia organized a round table entitled Police entry into the National Assembly with the topic of protecting the National Assembly, whether it is an autonomous area or not – and so on in this context. As it looked, you can still see on the website today because the entire round table was taken. But the minister says some have been invited, some have not. Believe it or not, Minister, I wasn't invited either. Do you know why I went there? Because I expected to meet you there. But you weren't there. But I was informed, like all the round tables that are happening, from the State Council to other NGOs. Of course, it is your own decision whether you believe it or not. But I ask you not to abuse the public with these sentences and explain who has been invited and who has not. And the fact is, what Mr Jerovšek points out is, indeed, it is unacceptable for the police to take this first step and decide for themselves to approach their work in this way. I could use other ways. I didn't make them up, I never worked for the police, and, believe me, I never will. I don't even know these procedures, I have to keep learning them, because they always surprise me with what they can do and what they can do. In addition to making everything clear, because our Minister of the Interior keeps repeating itself over and over again because he already knows all the steps in advance. I tell you something, Minister, since you've been the minister – I've already said this once today – I'm afraid to use electronic communications. I'm afraid to make a phone call. People who talk to me, hide their phones, display their phones, and go around laughing to get paranoid – "they're definitely listening to you!" But you, whether you want it or not, I don't know, it's your problem, you keep walking and taking steps to always know two steps more than we all do together. Moreover, in advance of which investigations will be carried out, you know in advance everything that will happen, and then quickly add a landmark decision to the Constitutional Court, what is your jurisdiction and what is not, and what you are not allowed to do and what you are not allowed to do. Of course, I have to tell you that in this whole case, I am incredibly surprised when I read once that the D.A. managed and guided these investigations, if it can be again called an investigation, whether it's data collection or what it really is. On the other hand, the prosecution was asked whether they really directed the work first to Mrs Meliti Župevc and then to another group of Members and Members. And we get an answer that you don't. We still don't really know what was actually going on today. But that we have come in this mandate to the fact that, at the time when the Members are carrying out their basic mission, which I have pointed out to the College, they have given their signatures under the referendum request, they — amazing! — at that time, it happens all at once, not the question of why they made the request, it is irrelevant, nor why it has to come to this in order to have a judgment in the Constitutional Court — irrelevant! It is important whether these Members are really so much that they do not know whether they have signed or even know how to sign or want to sign in advance, in order to divert attention from the primary purpose of the whole act, to redirect the story to the fact that they have forged their own signature. And then we get involved in this situation where some of us are, as they say, prisoners or we caught them and we even abused them, because we end up saying that we're actually just warning them that they're doing odd jobs. It's dirty business, I'm sorry. There will always be a bitter taste of someone instrumentalising law enforcement authorities so that they can exercise their political power. And that's what we're talking about today! We are not talking about evidence, we are not talking about a political and objective responsibility that someone has done something that they really shouldn't have done. All the clues are going this way. But no, the minister decided to comment, of course, in a way that he does not know how to read, we do not understand what we are half reading, in fact – stop making it significantly easier for the Minister to finish the whole story. I'm sorry I have to do this at all. I didn't think I'd do what I had to do today as a Member. I don't mind people who have a different world view. I don't even mind having different political directions, beliefs, whatever; I don't mind at all! Minister, not me! More; I don't mind that you have a different program than the opposition. If you can argue with him, enforce him, and everything else, it's okay with me. To be abused — well, that’s another problem! And that's what we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u63	Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u64	Madam President, you may have noticed for yourself that when the head of our delegation and the motioner speak, there are sound disturbances. I suggest you order a recess and have the technical services correct this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Of course, I heard, and I asked what was on it. The technical services have said that there may be a reason for the noise because Mr Möderndorfer speaks very loudly. In short, we'll be able to verify in the next trial that this is true. We continue with the debate, Mr Jerovšek, you have not been mentioned and I do not give you my word for the replica. Here you go, Mrs. Tamara Vont. [[...]] Just a moment longer, Mr Jerovšek has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u66	Madam President, there has been an incredible precedent that I have not yet witnessed in the National Assembly. I understand from Mr. Möderndorfer that his reasoning for the interpretation was flawed, but he was here saying that he was warned at the college that he was being listened to and made a victim. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u67	Mr. Jerovšek, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u68	Wait, these are extremely important things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u69	Please. It's a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u70	to listen to and request that the Möderndorfer submit a proposal to the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services immediately. [[...]] You could have done that a long time ago, by making sacrifices and insinuating here. These are terrible insinuations! He accused the minister of listening to his conversations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u71	Mr Jerovšek, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u72	No, that's outrageous! Send Mr. Möderndorfer from the hall to write this request immediately! Because if something like this were to happen, of course, I am clearly among those who would protest and demand an immediate investigation. But these are certainly fictitious, because they do this because they have no argument to interpret and are making sacrifices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u73	I am sure that Mr Möderndorfer has heard you, will act within his powers. Here you go, Mrs. Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The young man, just before defending his doctoral assignment, wrote to me some days ago: "The problem with politicians and politicians is that we believe that in the theoretical sense of the first place for them we are starting to draw on Machiavelli, but we should start with Aristotle or his concept of ethics." At the door, some other boy, very well-read, convinces me that even Machiavelli was abused and that the pope misinterpreted the purpose of devoting resources and that Machiavelli had never actually written it, at least not so. And there's more. All of these are opinions, opinions, opinions – reasoned. They do not have the status of absolute truth, and perhaps not the truth — perhaps that. But the fact remains that the fact exists, the signatures have disappeared. The signatures of people who believed that their vote or signature in that country meant something else, whether we like it or not, they put it under what text. Where they disappeared, and at what time, it doesn't matter. In our space, we are constantly moving between two fractures or two extremes if I reflect on the concrete reality: on the one hand — no one is to blame, on the other hand — we are all guilty. Among these extremes is, of course, a field of truth, for which we almost never reach out and the axis of this great fluctuation from one extreme to another could perhaps be cut off by someone in the city of Gogi who would finally accept the institution of objective responsibility. This strange creature who cannot be found at home on our soil; what is at home, yet has no asylum! Especially in politics. What is happening is everywhere in all countries where the political world is much older, wiser and more experienced; where sabotage is that, in the face of such a grave violation of the fundamental right, on which our independent country has been created, which, in every argument of its own, we are drawing on the plan and often slapping it. Like this time. What does the expression virtue mean? In the old Greeks – yes, I must go there to the ethical and political source of our civilization. I quote the explanation of the notion of the author Goraz Kocjančič: "Crestace is any ability for man to have the right attitude towards others and to himself, in particular to his passions, of various senseless moves. This regularity is always determined by the ethical code of the community, but cannot be reduced by it." End of quote. Plato's most famous classification of virtue is divided into four cardinal elements: reasonableness, thinking ability, courage and justice. Where are they, Minister? For example, considerateness. Twitt, August, at the announcement of the release of journalists. Minister Gorenak: "This is good news! We'll have more objective reporting." What about justice, Minister Gorenak? On 24 February 2012, a meeting of the Commission on Petitions. On deleted, of course, before the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights: "The Minister of Kresalova has finally settled the problem. Today, I am hearing that the problem is not settled, so this is the first step. From this I sense that our guests and our associates are expecting something else in this direction. I must say that we have not talked about these matters in the Government, but I am not planning anything but the implementation of the law that is in force. I also read in the media that NGOs are supposed to demand about this, if you go around the world and find them and offer them a case. No, thank you very much. That's not gonna happen. I'm not sending employees around the world to look for them and ask them to write a role. You can think of that." Courage, Mr. Secretary. Twitter, Minister Gorenak December 3rd: "People demand a legal and fair state. They're right. The address is not on Šubičeva 4." However, I do not deliberately miss the category of reason that it does not stumble on the fundamental agenda of the largest ruling party. Step one: Disqualification other than a person, step two: stop the iron agenda, step three, point your finger at the culprit. If possible, he should be from the opposite camp. Secretary's responsibility, don't lie when you face your own statements on the open stage that you said behind closed doors, and then tell someone that you're lying. On all media, he's lying. No, Minister, you're lying! There are 28 people behind me who have heard this, and you are alone. When you walk into a place and you say, "I'll talk like all the cameras are on," then you just talk like that! And you're also talking outside in front of those cameras, in front of those reporters. You lied, not once! Not once; and this to me personally! That's why I have every right to say it. I quote the Commission's conclusions on preventing corruption: "The Commission also estimates that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior as an institution did not act against the expected integrity, since the formal notification of the missing signatures to the National Assembly was only transmitted before the expiry of the legal deadline, although it was already known on Friday, 26 October afternoon that the signatures were not sufficient, as was the Minister, and also some other officials and public servants, informed on the same day. This situation is justified by the obvious that in this part it was either intentional or delegated – as a result of the strong interest of the policy to prevent the referendum –...... And so on and so forth." End of quote. We've heard this a few times. Let me conclude with Socrates' famous last words: "Kriton," he says, "We owe the Asclepius a rooster. Give it to him and don't forget to take care of it." "Of course that's how it's going to happen," he said. "Is there anything else you'd like to say?" That's what he asked, and he didn't answer any more. A little after that, he snapped. That man found it. Socrates' view was impervious. When Kryton saw this, he shut his mouth and his eyes. Such, Eherkat, was the end of our friend. The man who was, as we can say, of all those whom we then knew from experience, the best, and also the most reasonable and just." So, Minister, I'm setting a dilemma that you obviously don't have and is not completely pure in the Hamlet sense: to be, not to be. It's a key dilemma that, like Hamlet's, is personal. First: not to be a minister after all; and secondly: to be, not to be responsible, even if you are targeting "the arrows of all opposing fates". [[...]] [[...]] I know what your answer is, and I think Hamlet would have done it differently. But the words of the great men do not confuse small men, especially those who give themselves before all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Well, your words won't bother me either. I had a feeling I was listening to an independent POP TV reporter from 10 years ago. And that's true, that's how it used to be, and that's how it's gonna be today, and that's how it's gonna stay. However, I would like to thank Mrs Brunskola, who in fact explained this arrival of criminals or criminals and in some way also inherited the leader of the parliamentary group, because she did not have data at the time. Mr. Head of the Parliamentary Group, I will not repeat the stories with the criminalist again, but I am very pleased that we are monitoring things at the Ministry, that we are publishing things from this Chamber, and I am also pleased that you can be accompanied by criminals because we are in front of cameras, and I am pleased that at least those who have had, the criminalist who had a trial with you or your Members, knows what the truth is, and knows what lies. And that's why it's so good. The way the police worked, you probably won't be the one to decide. This is provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act. You know, all those machinations, up, down, here and there, it's set out in the Criminal Procedure Act, the Police Act, there's procedures set out and it's not up to you to sign or not to give, the police have legal procedures. You're saying it's a fear of communicating on the phone. I was not afraid to communicate on the phone, nor before 1990, nor was I afraid to communicate after 1990, even at a time when all the left governments were in that period, nor were they on the right. I'm never afraid to communicate on the phone. If you are afraid to communicate, there is a valid reason: Either you commit criminal acts or you talk to criminals. You could be in danger of getting caught here. But if you don't do any of this, and I suggest you don't feel threatened, because the police don't prosecute with listening to anything that's not called a specific crime, and the court has to approve it. So, without any fear, if you have a clear conscience. I'm not afraid of anything, and I'm not taking any batteries out, and I'm not hiding anything from my phone, because there's never been a reason for it before, and there's no reason for it today. Otherwise, what the forerunner said and mentioned a few of my tweets. Of course, I wrote that tweet around the journalists of Del and I still think exactly the same and nothing else today. True, on the same day, that newspaper that you consider to be the best in this country, Youth, published a song in which he said — what — that this government should be killed and hanged upside down. That's what it said in Youth, the same day I published this tweet. There is also something important here: that the society of journalists has also reacted and condemned my tweet, but it has not condemned the Youth, but that it has been a free poetic expression, where it is clear in that song that representatives of this government, namely this government, kill or hang – are required to do so in the final stage. Of course, you did not comment on this, and even the independent society of journalists, as an independent political speech, did not say anything about this topic. These are very interesting things. I insist today that, on the basis of the law adopted by Mrs Kresalov, we will not seek anyone around the world and ask for Slovenian citizenship, i.e. foreign status or citizenship. The law is open until mid-2013, the one who will arrive will be and nothing else. We're not looking for anyone! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer as a proponent, do you have a replica, Mrs. Vont? [[...]] Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u78	I feel bad for you. I feel really bad for you. You've proven yourself small once more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u79	That, Mrs. Vonta, was not exactly a replica, unless you took it as an explanation. The speaker has the floor, Mr Jani Möderndorfer [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] All right, she was misunderstood and therefore underlined this statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u80	Minister, I'm not afraid of the police, I'm afraid as long as you're the Minister of the Interior. Let me get this straight. I've got nothing against the police. You can only see through crime. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u81	Dear Mr. Möderndorfer, can you speak here for this time? This is one of the possibilities or try again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u82	Can I talk to you for a second? Se. Minister, once again, I'm really afraid of you because you don't trust me to feel safe in this country. The problem is that you see everything in criminal gangs, but you don't see what I call the right to privacy. You have serious problems with that, and that's why I brought it up. I'll tell you what. [[...]] [[microphone problems]] I really can't do this. Stop it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u83	Dear Mr. Möderndorfer, can you possibly move the iPod in case this bothers you? Accidentally, let's check, just in case. [[...]] [[talking to each other]] I'm adjourning the session for five minutes, so we'll proceed with the 15.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u84	Your Honor! The technical malfunction requires a replacement of the microphone with the proposer of today's point, so I am suspending the meeting for a good 30 minutes. We'll continue at 3:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u85	Dear Members and Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Mr Ivan Grill will be next in line for the debate. Your Honor, please, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I just want to finish what we failed before. I'll be very brief. Look, I don't have a problem with criminal associations, nor with those who are supposed to be connected to crime or as you've defined. But it is a very serious problem when we talk about the right to privacy. This is one of the human rights that is essentially at the highest point. Once this collapses, and this trust fails, we have a serious problem in this country. That's what I'm talking about, Minister. Nothing else. But if you're one step ahead of me, you know more than I do that I'm even connected to any criminal associations, then you're late because you don't act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I have the floor, Mr. Ivan Grill. Then get ready, Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! Messengers and Members! This interpolation was actually expected, because soon after the election of this government it was possible to detect the desire and idea of preparing or preparing the interpolation directly to Minister Gorenak, which means that you have obviously had some very long thorns in your heel, especially due to the consistent, correct and, above all, professional work that he is doing all the time. If anyone knows this area as well as he does, I think it'll be hard to find it. Therefore, he can do his work in a sovereign and also in the right way. The big problem, especially the opposition, was that you didn't have the right theme, or the right reason, or the argument on which this interpolation would also be based. Sadly, though, see also this subject that you have now adopted has not been happy. It has not proved what you are reading to him, for all these statements you are quoting are not only insinuations, but they are unrealistic, incorrect and misleading. This is also demonstrated by the reports of independent institutions, commissions which we can certainly claim have no least interest in supporting the actions of both Minister Gorenak and the ruling coalition. However, in all their reports, they are probably not the easiest of hearts, but they also had to state correctly and honestly that they were unable to determine where the errors had taken place. Respected opposition or MPs and Members of Positive Slovenia would, above all, touch Mr Jakič here, with what ease you can use such rhetoric to accuse you of stealing signatures, to burn them to prevent human will and so on. How easy!? Where do you have one proof that the signatures have even disappeared? I'm saying, proof that the signatures are gone! Who's to say who knows how many copies were made? Does anyone have that information? The report of the anti-corruption commission states that the gentleman who received the originals did not count these, nor did he count how many copies he made. Meaning, you're saying that the signatures are missing, and we don't even know how many signatures, I'm talking about photocopies, which were then also done at the Ministry of the Interior, were also produced in the National Assembly. Even the photocopying machine did not record this data, there is no human, at least an official no, which could provide or tell, so many and so many photocopiers were made. And you with so easy that the signatures disappeared that they were stolen that they were burned! The originals are the only meridian evidence or document that came into the National Assembly and was also stored. That's all it is and nothing else. And now turning the blame on the Ministry of Home Affairs — unfair, irresponsible, above all, misleading. I don't want to accuse anyone. There may have been a mistake because of negligence, and there may be another way in which I leave it to everyone to create an image on their own, but let us just try to touch a little bit of the Commission's chronology to prevent corruption. It describes it very precisely: five people, at least five people, and this individuals, were involved before the signatures, when they were entered into the National Assembly, were archived in the Iron Treasury, handled them individually, meaning without any commission supervision, meaning that each of these five people could potentially have made a mistake. [[...]] And I don't want to judge or accuse anyone in advance, but that's what's been going on since the filing. No one knew how many signatures he was operating on in the National Assembly. The first, who also wrote this down and found out how many signatures and leaves there were, was at the Ministry of the Interior following verification in their registers. This is the first document, and then they wrote it down, they forwarded it back, and that's when the story of finding out where the signatures missing from the original began. So here is a very important fact, which also rejects your concerns. One more thing. Even if there was a desire, a hidden purpose or a hidden purpose to go into some concealment of signatures, please tell me who would take such irresponsible action if they knew that they were originals in the National Assembly. A completely different picture would have been original if the documents transmitted to the Ministry of the Interior had been original. At that time, there could also be significantly more realistic possibilities for some signatures to be manipulated or removed, stored and so on. So such an accusation is irresponsible. All these statements that you are saying here in Positive Slovenia, I am sure they will not be public, but even less coalition Members can convince that at least a fraction of your accusations here are possible, not only true! The very insinuations and malicious accusations with a view to discrediting both the minister and, above all, his governments! I would also like to touch on the report or on the statement of the anti-corruption commission led by Mr Klemenčič, which I appreciate, respect and is certainly a person who has raised the level of quality and also the work of this Commission, but not least, is also probably aware that the Secretary of State was at this Ministry and that, of course, he knows these procedures, how they have been in the past 20 years or how long they have been saying that these signatures from the National Assembly have been checked at the Ministry and back. So it would be right, instead of wasting hours and hours here today, that we are convincing each other or trying to present to the public, in particular, what happened then, although Minister Vinko Gorenak here is excellent and comprehensible and, above all, he has made a chronological presentation of the course of events and, of course, has also proved that there is no least doubt that anything wrong could have happened there, but that we are now wasting time here instead of settling down, both the Ministry and, lastly, the National Assembly, and it would be agreed, in what way will then be dealt with in the future so that such shortcomings would not occur. That would be the right way. Also about the duality of Positive Slovenia. In your statements, you often say that you are a young client, only one year old. Indeed, it is so, since you are wearing the coat of Positive Slovenia, but under this coat there are quite a few Members and Members of various political parties, from Zares, SD, LDS and so on; something from the previous term, something from previous mandates. It's okay! But you tell the public, tell them, don't hide, if we're innocent, we don't know what happened, we're here as clean as tears. There's something else I'd like to introduce you to. Several Members and Members of Parliament sit in these ranks when, in the previous term, we had an interpellation against Mrs Kresalov, where it proved very precisely and with arguments the irregularity of corruption, customerism and also damage to state property when it came to renting premises for the National Investigation Office, and you voted against the interpretation. Where do you now have the face to try to interpret or resolve Mr. Gorenak when you do not have the slightest proof, the smallest argument, and above all the real reason?Oh, my God! It is true that this is mainly political populism, and it is also trying to present the political discredit of both the minister and the government in public; but, look, I am sure that you will not succeed. Just one more thing; look, Slovenia is in a bad situation, it is possible that almost like a barrel of powder remember one proverb that applies to you and all of us: whoever sows the wind, reaps the wind. [[advertising from the hall]] Not us! Mrs Bratušek, you are one of those who can be as silent as you may be, given your past roles, but I do not want to list them here, you are the loudest, but the ashes, as much as you should have to, in order to get poured into all your actions that were possibly even well-intentioned, but it turns out that it is not so. That's not how I'm going to support this interpretation, not because it comes from the types of my client, but because there's no valid reason to attribute the guilt to him. But I regret that such an event has taken place, and I also apologize – not that I am guilty of anything, and I believe that none of the Members have ever done so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u89	Mr Grill, I beg you not to hold an insidious discussion with the Members. In an offensive tone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u90	Mrs. Brunskole, who was I being offensive to? Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u91	Mrs. Bratushek, you said you'd get laid with the ashes. I mean, there's no need.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u92	Is that insulting? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Listen, what's she doing here? He's actually objecting here, and he's trying to interfere with my debate, both with the mime and with rhetoric. Otherwise, I've finished more or less. Most of all, as I said again, I cannot and will not support this interpretation for the slightest reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u93	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u94	In fact, we listen all the time as one matrix that repeats the same thing. Now I expect just another such phenomenal conclusion that in the SDS Group you will do something that we have done in the parliamentary group with these signatures and have led to this point that we should actually give your minister a medal, because he has actually revealed the whole story with these signatures. Come on, for God's sake, understand if we're really going to do what you suggested the originals would do here and there -- yes, and then we'll never know what happened! And the originals, thank God, must remain in the National Assembly. And don't let God happen to anyone by accident, so that he can think of the originals to walk! Because of these originals, this stunt came in a day at all. Minister Gorenak didn't find anything first. Minister Gorenak, on his behalf, of course, the ministry, which was the first message of the number that the union found to be incorrect. Yes, but if there were no originals, all of us here would think that such a number had been accepted, because we would have argued exactly what you are now saying: no report showed that it was not properly processed, no report said that we should accept it or otherwise broadcast it, and the mail was properly traveled here and there. We'd have the same mantra all the time. That's the problem. And it is clear to everyone who has been listening since the morning that something had to happen on this walk from one point to the other. Now just explain to us that we have done this here before, in the National Assembly, and preferably in Positive Slovenia, because it really came into your hands today. And that's the key problem. And with this matrix you repeat one after the other the same mantra. Listen to what you're saying! We are talking about once in the National Assembly, and we need to find out: for the first time, what happened, without saying, "Oops, there's been a mistake, we won't, but there's nobody to blame." People don't believe that. Let me understand! Only two are responsible: either someone in the National Assembly or someone in the Ministry of the Interior who was the only one empowered — one to lead the process and the other to review and count and determine whether the signatures are correct. It's not about anything else! And we said that in the National Assembly we have found and also the Anti-Corruption Commission has found that the procedures have been going well, alerted to the irregularities that need to be improved; on the other hand, it notes something else. Those who lead this commission and whom you highly appreciate and have used his name, Mr Klemenčič; if you believe him, you trust him, then you also believe in this report, which is not read so wonderfully and that he does not see anything. Read everything under the fusnots, you'll see what's what's really worrying and what we're actually afraid of is that it can happen again. That's what we're talking about. We didn't make that up in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Ivan Grill has the replica, then Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, the more you talk, the less we will need, because with your speeches you are confusing yourself. Now you've admitted that there was a mistake or incoherence either in the National Assembly or at the MNZ. That's what you just said. Are you accusing Minister Gorenak of the MNZ's mistake? It means you've already changed your claim a little bit. Secondly, I did not at least defend myself or suggest that the originals should be forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior. I just gave an example if it were to deal with the originals and if there were to be a situation like this, it would be completely different. However, since it was exclusively done with photocopies that no one knows how many were made in the National Assembly, it is impossible to say that any photocopy has disappeared. Perhaps they were not made — God knows why! The paper could've run out. Look! But I don't want to guess that. And here you want to ascribe guilt to the Ministry of the Interior or to Minister Vink Gorenak. And then here we have a confession to make! What? We don't really have anything to confess here. There have been inconsistencies in all these procedures, in particular that it has not been verified how much of those signature sheets have actually been received and how this logistics has been carried out. And five people, I've already told you, five people, as an individual, had the opportunity to actually operate on the entire piece of paper and at that time could have happened or happened a lot. But it's none of our business. When you say that we need to find out here where the blame is, if not three commissions or three competent institutions have found out, now the criminal police are doing it, if they don't find out, we certainly won't. Thus, your comment on my implementation is more than superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u97	We're moving on. The next is Mrs Janja Klasinc, then Mr Daniel Krivec is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u98	Mr. Grill and everyone who bothers you so much about the things we're talking about today. It is not about any party game, it is not about any opposition performance, it is simply a disgrace that the Republic of Slovenia has not experienced in all its 20 years. Those who are a little older, we can remember that at a time when the Republic of Slovenia was not a single country, something similar did not happen in Yugoslavia, where we know that things were not always very transparent. It is therefore important to note all the problems that have occurred with this loss of regular and normally submitted electoral signatures. It's about papers, and Mr. Secretary, the devil is with these papers, I'd say. Once too few, once too many. When they're too few, they need to be glued when there's too many, it's nice if they can get lost. And the second is right, the right measure, and there's something in there that says it's good to hide it in some kind of drawer. Now you're gonna say I'm pushing, because I can already see the view. I'm not pushing. In the SDS, you will quickly recall, for example, specimens of how archival documents were glued when you tried to frame President Türk's udbov past in the SDS, how it was unknown where Interpol's dispatch in the Patrio case was lost, and, look at the fraction, it landed at the bottom of an official drawer. And now something's gone missing, and there's not much that's missing. It's 36 p.m., we're talking about leaves, but this is a field, with 394 signatures of Slovenian citizens, of the referendum initiative, as we say today, from home, of a bad bank. Part of the electoral initiative has disappeared, which means in all democratic societies, as if they had disappeared in the vote. This is a matter that we must all take very seriously. Let us return to the opening day of October 25th, with a bit of reference to the procedure that took place in the Ministry of the Interior. At that time, he was the courier of the National Assembly in a sealed envelope – in order not to accidentally accuse the courier – we said, carrying these, a good hundred meters, initiatives with the said signatures to the Directorate, which is here across the road, the Ministry of the Interior, which deals with internal administrative matters, including migration and naturalization. This Directorate, for those who do not know what they are doing, had the task of verifying the identity of the signatory and his personal data with data in the computer record of the Central Population Register. This Thursday was a very difficult day for the employees of this Directorate, as they arrived at the Directorate of Two Initiatives, the first to check signatures for a bad bank, the second to referenda on the holding law. Since I participated as a civil servant in these checks a few years ago, I can tell you that I know exactly how this process is going on, and I also know that the workers who carry out these tasks must be given an examination or must have a licence for access to confidential data. In short, these things usually take place in a normal order. This is where the first complication occurred. In the newsletter of your party Democracy, Mr Minister, I quote that "the Ministry first received a request concerning the Slovenian State Holding Act and another concerning the Bad Bank Act." The application numbers on the MNZ are demantling you. If we believe numbers, first the initiative on a bad bank under number 0421012 came to the MNZ, and then it was under order number 04211 – earlier it was 10, now, logically, 11 – the referendum initiative on the holding law. Why is this information important? Because it is completely illogical, Mr Minister, to have staff review of the information from the initiative, which came later, and then – what you are saying in your response to the interpolation. The dates don't match here, and neither does the clock. Why is this important again — for those who think that we are sticking to the details? Because of later answers. So when a group of these employees reviewed the holding referendum initiative at the Directorate, the following day, it said, 26, found out what it had found, wrote a report, sent it to the Ministry, you signed it, and the same day — see it, a fraction — 26th came to the National Assembly. While the initiative for a bad bank was different, it came first. Why there's been a delay, everyone wonders logically. Because at the same time, negotiations were held by Finance Minister Šuštersič with representatives of the two unions that have tabled these referendum initiatives. And with the holding company, Minister Šušteršič succeeded in withdrawing the initiative, while the Syndicate of the Chemical, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry did not withdraw the initiative, but insisted on a referendum on the bad bank, so it was necessary to delay – and say what you want – it came true that signatures were suddenly lost. They disappeared, and the referendum was shut down. If everything were legal, Mr. Minister, I'd find out right away, 26. 10th, we can communicate to the National Assembly because the application has shown that all of this has been verified by 26. Ten. However, in order to extend the situation a little longer and prevent the success of this referendum, you remembered the manual verification of this data due Monday, 29 October. I have to tell you that I can't imagine what a manual check is, because all the data that a staff member has to check is in the computer system of the central registry, which records every employee's entry into the register. And of course, look at the fraction of it, if they said they checked it on Monday, it would show they weren't checking on Monday, because it wasn't necessary because they were done on Friday. And look, then we come up with some interesting findings by the anti-corruption commission, which says it was 9:30 on Monday, 29. 10. the final number of missing signatures found – obviously with this one hand check that I do not know what it would have been – and at 11.35 the letter was signed, and on Monday you signed it at 11.35. Can you tell me what is now with this remarkable journey between the National Assembly, the DUNZ, this is called this Directorate, and then the famous Litostrojska, and then again that it came to the National Assembly this material or this letter on Tuesday at 2.26 p.m.? Mr Minister, I spoke earlier about an initiative, or Interpol's dispatch, which was in the drawer. Did this letter also lie in your drawer? Well, anyway, the deadline has expired, the legally collected signatures have disappeared, luckily the originals have stayed in the National Assembly, and if there is nothing, of course there is nothing to prove where they disappeared, where they disappeared, and so on, because there were no followers at the time. They were, of course, I agree, administrative errors have also been made, both here and at the Ministry, which I hope we will no longer repeat in Slovenia and will be corrected, but thinks that these errors are not essential in this whole matter at all. It's not good that they were, but I don't think they're essential. If there were no anti-corruption commission called on the President of the National Assembly to prepare his own review of the whole situation, I fear that today they would be faced with the guilt of any courier or of those famous lady, a civil servant who has always been mentioned for all of this in your responses to the interpretation and also in our Group's discussion. I'm not gonna mention her name because I really don't want the lady to be guilty. But look, then the anti-corruption commission came to a conclusion and they are clear, I quote, "the circumstances justify the obvious that it was either a deliberate and delegated exercise, as a result of the strong interest of the policy to prevent a referendum, either a reckless abandonment of due diligence for the proper, timely, effective and qualitative implementation of the statutory tasks and obligations of the ministry, which at the same time mean the realization of an important democratic and constitutional referendum right of voters and voters. What else is this, Mr. Secretary, as if the KPK had warned you of your objective responsibility?Oh, my God! If I return to the meaning of the signatures for a referendum initiative, which all experts associate with the votes in the elections, I would warn you that everything here in the Chamber will be 20 years after the presidential elections in Serbia at the time and that the Serbian driver Slobodan Milosevic won such a percentage that when all the votes were made, 108% of the voters were voted on. You know, at the time, there were a little more loudspeakers in the boxes, but here they were gone! That's the way it is, if necessary. And when the signatures of Members — not Members of Parliament, the initiators of a referendum initiative, or the ballots, or when it comes to some anonymous people, such as John and Mick, find that a Member has not signed what he himself claimed to have written, it means that democracy in that society is wrong. I thank you, Mr Minister, that today, I do not know whether you have escaped or not, for the first time, you have finally admitted that the appeal for these signatures came from the National Assembly. So far you've always talked – I looked at the magnetogram, you know, so we checked it out in a magnetogram – you've been saying over and over again that an anonymous application via the e-government portal has arrived at the police. We Members all knew that this had come from the National Assembly, and we all knew that it had come from the SDS Group, because the day before this parliamentary group had been problematic. But the public may have just thought that some Janez or Mihec was playing on the computer and sent an anonymous application through the portal. What happened, colleagues and colleagues, is not the problem with this interpretation. What has happened is the problem of democracy in this country and the decision whether to continue the path towards the rule of law or to return more than 20 years ago — I would say 30 — and swim into some waters that have been very distasteful to all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I would not talk about famous staff because I consider this to be an insult, because you were then a famous ministerial servant, who I am leading today, until coming to this Parliament. You must have been. Otherwise, at a time when the driver in Belgrade was talking about Serbia, about a single Yugoslavia, and when you were happy to write and defend the thesis on a single Yugoslavia – look at the articles in Nuk – then you have no right to talk to me about these things because I was on the other side. On the other hand, it is called the defence of independent Slovenia. So much for the intro. But let's go in one order. Look, Mrs. Klasinc, why are you pretending? I have noticed that your group leader interprets some things differently or even understands them, you know. In fact, your group leader said it was on one side or the other. But he signed something else, and he signed that he was on my side. But now you're obviously going to take on this role. Look what you're saying. The complaint came from D.Z., and the appeal came anonymously. You know exactly that the first criminal charge, which concerns the alleged forged signature of Mrs. Zupevcheveva, which is to be falsified by a stranger, is, therefore, [[Incomprehensible]] came from the National Assembly – as they made it clear in the National Assembly, even the President announced that he would press charges – that the second criminal complaint concerning the rest of the Members came from an anonymous e-portal. That's what the police said. But you purposely, because of the impression you want to create – I am so sorry – you interpret in this way. As far as what came or didn't come. I don't know if you were listening or not listening to my opening statement. In fact, I said that the National Assembly had sent two documents; one was without attachments, this one went by electronic route to Stefano's 2, and the other was with attachments in two separate closed envelopes, which came to Beethoven's. When they wrote both on Stefan 2 and on Beethoven, you say you worked there, so you might know this thing better, you know it's been published twice, which I also told you in my opening act. I also said the numbers, and I didn't hide anything, but it was true that when it was a book, one and the other pile, it went to the leader's table – it was those famous employees you insulted. This one simply took one of these two piles, it's obvious she wasn't looking at the number she had to take before, because they didn't come with the delay, like you say, they came at the same time, with the same courier the same minute. They were written and placed on the leader’s desk, the leader grabbed one of these piles, and so she chose the pile that was later written — no conspiracy! You're the one who fakes the conspiracy and insults the employees. No one remembered the additional verification, the additional verification is mandatory in any case, and it is particularly important in cases where the difference between 2 000 500 and what is listed is small. In short, it's not enough. At that time, however, it is compulsory; and that was the case. This check -- I told you exactly, and I have to say again -- we started it on the 25th, just after twelve o'clock. First the holding and we even ended it and you're again troubled that it was signed that day; yes, on the sixth! Your group leader has the information where I've been, so the Secretary of State has signed it. On the second initiative, this is a bad bank, and one third of the signatures were checked on the first day, and then it was the end of working time, so the verified ones continued on the sixth, on Friday, and they ended it. They wrote a report, made a print screen published by the Youth. Since the clock was late in the afternoon, the data shows that even outside the working hours of the National Assembly, it was checked on Monday — and what is wrong here? It's the right thing to do! If I hadn't done it, I'd be at the interpolation today, but for some other reason. So it's the right thing to do! And she did! 11.35, as is clear, I signed this. Every day I sign, I think, 10 kilograms of paper and not this one document; and they're all important. What happened next — what I told you; no drawers, nothing! He went from Litostrovska to Stefanovo, from Stefanova to Beethoven, where we also had electoral directories for the DKP and went with normal courier mail to the National Assembly at 2.20 p.m. You are looking for a thousand plots and a thousand problems here, you can quote the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption a hundred times – of course one piece, the one that suits you and the other piece does not, in particular, the part where it says that the DZ did not do the right thing to register. You didn't say that. You also forgot to tell us that 39 or 40 hours from the DZ came to us. This is not important to you because you have as long a meter as the Anti-Corruption Commission; it is smurpantel, and then once you measure one meter, once you measure one half a meter, depending on how much you fuck it and say it is. That's how you measure the matter. But that's not a problem for you for 39 hours, but the problem is 25 hours at a time when Ministry staff are checking two initiatives and dealing with electoral directories. What would happen if we did anything wrong with the electoral directory? These people are doing an important job, and I don't remember you doing these tasks, but you could have done them after I left. You may have them after my departure; and then you could be more correct to these people on behalf of your objectivity, on behalf of your personal self. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u102	Mr. Secretary, you're kidding! With these insults — various, even me — you will not succeed. I did not say a word; on the contrary, I even reasoned that these people have been working on these tasks for many years, that they are professional and all In their conclusions I have absolutely no doubt about yours – and quite a lot. [[...]] As for – I must explain your continuing attacks, even in the previous term you wanted to assign me some support for the former country as a correspondent for the public RTV service from Serbia. You know, if you were being followed by Milosevic's police, if after independent democratic Serbia, you get information about what they did to me, and I have papers about it, and I've already told you this a few times, then it's clear to you that I probably didn't take too much breath in the soul of Milosevic's government. It is true that my heart is very hurt — I love this Slovenia — when I note that last year they have adapted to the political practice of the government with very similar elements that our friends of Serbia have fought with 20 years and more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u104	Earlier, an MP, now a minister, is reusing what I said, of course, and now I will explain a little bit more what you are referring to when I say that either the National Assembly or the Ministry – who is guilty, one is certainly guilty. If you would listen at the very beginning of the introduction and you would see it in one part, where I would even explain it and it was very clear, you just weren't interested. Now you've hanged yourself in the short form of what I've explained. But so that there will be no mistaking and turning words, in which you are of course a great master and exceed me, I will read what the Anti-Corruption Commission or the Anti-Corruption Commission has written, so that I will not be misunderstood here yet, 'although it was already 26. 10. Thus, on Friday before the end of business hours, it is more or less certain that signatures are insufficient and that on the same day the Minister of the Interior has been informed, and according to information from the Commission, also many other holders of public functions, and on the other hand, informally through the telephone and SMS, the expert services in both bodies have been notified to each other, an official letter from the Ministry of Internal Affairs in DZ was sent only on Tuesday just before the end of working time." That's what we talk about all the time! Don't change the subject! At first, I told you the problem was Friday, Monday and Tuesday. Why didn't you start rechecking on Friday? Why Monday? And why did it take you to realize on Monday that the National Assembly had been informed practically just before the Sadducees that the President of the National Assembly could only inform. There'll be no misunderstanding! In Positive Slovenia we thought very seriously about who will actually be the carrier, the one where we will look for the one where there is probably a mistake. That is why we have also talked very seriously with the President of the National Assembly, in the same way as the Minister himself has expressed his wish to explain certain things in Positive Slovenia. So that there would be no mistake, he expressed the same wish of the President of the National Assembly. We didn't invite any extras. And after these two interviews, of course, we have estimated that there is an increasing likelihood that today this story has taken place at the Ministry of the Interior. But what I want to say is, so don't turn your back on words, we're talking about objective responsibility. What you want to show us is that we need to have proof that I don't know what else to bring. No, no, no! This will be done by the Ministry of the Interior on a directive and a request from the Prosecutor's Office if they so decide. There they will investigate who is truly guilty and will bring material evidence or not and then initiate appropriate procedures before the relevant authorities if necessary. We are not talking about subjective responsibility, we are talking about objective responsibility. However, that subjective responsibilities were also mentioned in the interpolation, it was also because the indications are also in this direction and, last but not least, there is material evidence of the abandonment of certain acts, as the Commission is also talking about to prevent corruption. And that's why it's pretty funny to know who's to blame and who's not to blame, you know, because you want to act like there's no report. And you're talking about three reports that don't detect anything. That's not true. All three reports indicate something. This went as far as possible and went so far as to make it very clear that the elements for determining objective responsibility. This is what the Commission says to prevent corruption, led by Mr Klemenčič, which you highly appreciate and respect because it knows the procedures and knows how to work in the Ministry of the Interior. Those are your words, not mine. Let's get this straight. This is what I am talking about, and I must repeat it again, because in this National Assembly, experts in the SDS have taught me that I have to keep repeating the mantra, the matrix you have set up — since morning. Put the chip in and you'll be done by the vote until you get out. I'm sorry, but I don't like it. I've always been sure you'd say it once, you'd say it again the second time if you didn't get it right, and the third time it's all clear to everyone. Not here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u106	Yes, very briefly. Again, I've been notified of 26. Do you want me to tell you a hundred more times? Your chip hasn't figured it out yet – or what? Speaking of chips. Of course I was informed. It was out of business, and that's why the staff went home. I won't tell them to work Saturday, Sunday, because there are no legitimate reasons. Time is very clear, from 23 to 30. The check was made on Monday, 29. But do you really need to put this in writing again? I can also give it to you in writing if you want, even though I said it and you have it in a magnetogram. Here, now I have a confession to make. Yes, as far as I'm going to Positive Slovenia, it's a big mistake, and it's my stupidity to visit you at all, because you abused my visit and my good purpose, so that you tweeted and talked nonsense and converted the words I said there. That's my mistake. To the conclusion. Look, you were talking about the commission saying it was more likely. Yeah. But if the court has two defendants before it and weighs the evidence, it will never say, "It's more likely that accused A killed someone as accused B." And on the basis of a higher probability, let's say he was convicted. That's probably not gonna work. And you're doing exactly that. You're investing in interpolation because, in your opinion, it's more likely. What if that's not true? Perhaps you would have had an investigation tomorrow, such as after a police investigation, if you had found a specific person with a specific name and surname in the National Assembly – what if? And there would be some kind of judicial procedure, and this would, for example, be legally implemented. Then what? Then what? But you would have preemptively removed Gorenak. More and more your onset convinces me of what I really said in Democracy, you're doing a pier-service for someone who's afraid of someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u108	Yes, Minister, that's the problem. You're the one who got mixed up. We are not in court here, but we are in Parliament. And I don't need any evidence against you so I can judge you. Because I don't judge you. Because you are increasingly and more convincing me that you simply are not able to manage these functions because you do not understand the dimension of this function. That's your problem, and you prove it with every next performance. I'll tell you again what we're burdening you with because you just don't want to understand. We are burdening you with an attempt as Minister of the Interior to prevent the referendum initiative of voters for a referendum on a bad bank, because it has also deliberately delayed by informing the National Assembly and, consequently, the tenderers of whether the initiative fulfils certain conditions by law. It has thus prevented instigators from complementing the initiative in legal terms in accordance with the law. That's what we're talking about. Another thing, due to the objective and political responsibility for the work of the Minister of the Interior, is that, as Minister, he has abandoned his duty of professional care. I'm not talking about any evidence. We're talking about objective responsibility, Mr. Secretary. Finally, due to objective and political responsibility for the operation and conduct of the Internal Affairs Department, which has resulted in the loss of the confidence of voters and voters and of the general public in the legality of the work and integrity of the Minister of the Interior, as evidenced by current public opinion polls. Three things we're talking about, three things that you're talking about right now that we have to go to court. So what kind of interpolation is this?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has a word to prepare me to pray to the Mags. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I didn't know if it was even my turn, given that you guys were giving each other a word like that, but I have to say that I don't have a chip installed, so my microphone works normally. And I also have to challenge the applicants. I didn't invest any anonymity. When you're operating with a task force, you have to be aware that this is what you characterize everything and I don't see myself in it! So sometimes I'd ask for a little more attention when you say something. You keep talking about the minister's guilt, that's what's been said a lot. I don't know why you're dragging your word back now and just talking about some objective responsibility. You have always stressed that the Minister is guilty, the Ministry responsible for the disappearance of the voter initiative, for the disappearance of signatures. I would like to ask that we are a little more precise, especially about this potential disappearance of signature photocopying. The signatures were never questioned and the National Assembly with its credibility was never at a dangerous point in order to lose its original signatures. It is true, however, that there have been many mistakes in all proceedings, and I regret it, and I must say that I was alone, regardless of the fact that I have been in Parliament for a long time, I am convinced that these documents, when they come to the National Assembly, are numbered, registered, and so on. Here I believe that in this direction you have all been convinced that this is the way it is done, because such an approach is being taken or any official document is being filed anywhere in the smallest local community or society. However, signatures are always required either by the investor or by the one who brings something, as by the one who takes over. But it wasn't, and it was established. The Commissions find this well and write it down. On this basis, a new instruction was also issued by the National Assembly, which was issued by 5. 12. It is said that the services of the National Assembly have also found that some things are not right. The findings with which you are operating all the time have a final report from the Commission on the prevention of corruption, which is clearly identified in the first indent. The Commission notes, I quote, "that the individual staff of both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior who acted on the referendum initiative have failed to ensure proper recording and traceability of documents contrary to the rules of cogent law." This has also indicated, and is also due to the fact that in the end we cannot find out where the fault of disappearance or non-existence is, nor do we know how many copies were in circulation, and on this basis no one can conclude that the Ministry of the Interior is responsible in this case. The same finding was also made by the information officer, and I quote: "Because of the lack of traceability of the processing of personal data, both on the DZ page and on the MNZ side, it was not possible to determine in the procedure which of them resulted in an error in the disappearance of 36 photocopying sheets with personal data of the signatory of the voter initiative." How can one claim that this is in a precise location and in a precise manner? We've been used to such innuendo a lot. And if you have such evidence in the parliamentary group of motioners, you could have already filed a criminal complaint and thus concluded the case. The same findings are also made by the Public Administration Inspectorate. And it is difficult for me to join that exclusive guilt or responsibility for this stunt at Minister Gorenak. However, we are all aware that this was a big deal and that this needs to be resolved, so measures have also been taken on the basis of an inspection – both at the Ministry of the Interior and also a new directive adopted in the National Assembly on the operation of such documents. In the Commission's final report on anti-corruption, there are some other things that you mention. I quote: "For this reason it is not possible to determine with certainty which body the leaves were lost or estranged. Nor can any of the authorities, with a satisfactory level of probability, claim or prove that it is not the case for the removal or loss of leaves." I don't know how a proposaler can possibly, we all know what a probability account is, it's very dependent on the conditions of the goods, he says it happened right on the MNZ. He will have to make more reasonable arguments to make this happen. Further, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption: "The Commission, in its proceedings and within its competences, has failed to identify facts or detect indications which would justify the suspicion that the withdrawal, the loss of ballots by the signatures of voters and electorates has resulted in a premeditation or as a result of coordinated or delegated conduct by the persons responsible to the MNZ or the DZ." And you keep saying that this has come at the direction of Mr Gorenak, Minister of the Interior. But later, when this argument didn't hold up, you're talking about a deadline. The Commission also notes one point in this regard: "The Commission also assesses that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior acted as an institution in contravention of the expected integrity by submitting a formal notice of missing signatures to the DZ only before the expiry of the legal period." So the marriage period was respected. However, if we are to address this issue, you must all ask yourself how it is with all administrative procedures where administrative authorities can issue decisions within a few days, and most of the practice is to issue a decision within the statutory deadline. In this case, it is said that all civil servants are violating integrity and are problematic in this process. I have to say, it's hard to agree to this kind of performance. Because in this case, it means that all employees violate integrity, but they don't break the law, just like the Ministry does in this case. So I must say that in this case, the Minister, with his reasons and the evidence of the procedure, has convinced me more than even those who change their claims in a way. I certainly won't support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Get ready, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear comrades! "Practice must be more respected than the law. For it is more honorable to do what is right than what is lawful." These are the words of Thomas Wolsey, the English cardinal. I ask how many times the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has acted unlawfully. Answer: We have recently received judgments from the European Court of Justice confirming illegal behaviour. How many times have we done wrong? Many times. And we're doing it. I ask you, of course, I have already answered myself, whether perhaps we are not doing Minister Gorenak injustice. Because it is fair for all people to treat the same action equally. Signatures. The three investigative authorities were unable to determine where the signatures were lost: whether at the Ministry or at the National Assembly? They couldn't figure it out, and there's no answer. Today only Minister Gorenak is on the bench. First man of the Ministry. Why isn't the first man in Parliament on the bench? Because we're not doing what's right. Because we've forgotten the word justice. And things happen to us because we basically don't have to do what is right in front of us. Gorenak, Virant, Vogrin, Janša, all must be judged on the same criteria. And if two people are equally responsible in the same matter, they must both be on a sad bench. Otherwise, it is a criminal act that casts a bad light on this Parliament. And this bad light is reflected in the injustices that we've caused by bad laws for 20 years, so people are on the street. Because we also adopted criminal laws and gave rights to people who did not deserve them, and we took the rights of those who deserved them. You know why I know that's true? I spent four hours in court today proving that I was innocent, that I didn't do anything wrong. Nothing. It's just that I've been working. Maybe I made a mistake in my life. But far from it. And if all people were judged by the same principles, I wouldn't be in court at all. And in my opinion, Minister Gorenak is guilty. Why? I don't know if he's guilty or innocent, because I'm not responsible, and I don't think I'm such an expert either, but he's guilty because he's the only one who's responsible, just him. That's guilt. For the same action, we must all be treated by the same vats. Therefore, it will be very difficult to press the button and say, Mr Gorenak is guilty. Maybe it's true. However, if three institutions have not found out, then the first person of those institutions to be held accountable for their objective responsibilities must be called to account. Otherwise, we sow injustice, not only do we not do what is right, but we also do what is wrong. And that's the worst sin. Let's call both men to account and then face guilt or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor, Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u114	Madam Vice President, nice greeting, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues! I must admit, I haven't been in the National Assembly for at least a month, because I'm very rational in my words, I'm not rational in my actions. However, today, when I hear this debate and the charges against Mr Gorenak, you have somehow challenged me to give you a few words, because I do not think that the debate is in favour of any real argument, why Dr. Gorenak came to the National Assembly under some charge, but the whole matter is going to some inn fight, which, of course, does not belong to the National Assembly, and we are all proving together why the National Assembly enjoys such a small reputation in our country. First of all, I was disturbed today by the accusations of intentional incineration, theft, destruction of documents, then one of the accusations that Minister Gorenak must withdraw already because he has lost the integrity and trust of the electorate, as polls show. Look, these public opinion polls, I'm sorry, this is not an argument for me, this has nothing to do with it. Before I go to the point, I would like this debate to go in the direction of some methodology, to look at some of the truly established facts of the institutions and then to try to accuse Dr. Gorenak. The first issue, which I consider to be essential, is the actual situation and legal framework of the reported cases by the Anti-Corruption Commission. To quote those who watch us through television audiences, what they wrote in the first part of the report on the anti-corruption commission, "photocopying of originals was performed by the staff of the National Assembly in the Press Department of the National Assembly on a photocopying machine, which also did not have an internal counter involved at the time of copying, on the basis of which a reliable number of copies could be found. None of the staff members of the National Assembly who handled the initiative, individual letters of signature and personal data of the electorate were counted or marked, nor were the number of sheets recorded in the UDIS software package. See, if this case were to take place in court or any other administrative proceedings, then at least there would be examples, in law we follow some methodologies, that is according to some individual legal explanations. As such, the law has been studied for the past 2000 years, and the reception of Roman law began in the 12th century and continues today. This is important because this debate falls within the framework of some genuine legal argument against Minister Gorenak. We know more in law: a language explanation, we know a logical explanation, a systematic explanation and a historical explanation. These are the basic explanations that we can start accusing someone. The first case that speaks can be described as a general fact. The matter that has taken place is unacceptable for the National Assembly and for this country. She hesitated this institution as such. I think today was one common conclusion that something like this should never have happened in the National Assembly. However, if we go forward with this argument, I am setting up the thesis myself, and I am opening this thesis now before you, that there was a whole sphere of input to these documents that were copied, and to the "comeback" of these documents back to the National Assembly, there was a systemic error. This system error has somehow been happening for the last 15 years. That's the problem. Today we feel the result of one systemic error, here employees, I think about 400 people, some in the jobs of secretaries, undersecretaries, are paid as top experts in the field of law or administrative science. It's sad to find that out for 15 years. During this time, there was also a whole series of presidents of the National Assembly, Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, and this was not identified. So this system error was not detected. If we tell this to some average voter who looks at us today, he'll say, look, this kind of thing is unacceptable to one person we underestimate today, with one three-year high school, which is a warehousekeeper in one warehouse, and he doesn't know what it is to receive documents, how it broadcasts documents. This is something logical for a job of someone who is being paid six or seven hundred euros today. However, someone who is paid as a top expert who has been paid as a consultant to the President of the National Assembly himself or his first deputy is unacceptable that this has not been established for 15 years. And then that's what we just found out. Because of a bad day after the probability of one of the lower employees there was a so-called higher power, as we say in law. But when it comes to the higher power institute, of course we can't figure out, it's a systemic error. And at this point, I'm only interested in one thing besides this interpolation. I want to know what's going on at this time. Have these shortcomings and matters been resolved? Will this continue to happen? On the other hand, I am opening a debate and reflection on the Ministry of the Interior. What is the element in this referendum procedure? Is it not like a partner, in fact, as a subcontractor of the National Assembly running this referendum process in this case? It is therefore the subcontractor who is to blame, not the one who directs this procedure. The debate did not go this way in order to establish this too. The procedure is chaired by the National Assembly, the Ministry of the Interior has no other task than to monitor the documents, to identify and return these documents back to the National Assembly. The third thing I'm opening again is a logical explanation. In law we always explain logically, we conclude by logical laws in a society that happens, is acceptable and can truly be called facts. The use of the word "act" in the National Assembly begins with almost every Member. Those aren't facts. This is now a flood, and it has nothing to do with some logical explanations in society. And go back. Why would Minister Gorenak, a doctor of science, a man who had an influence on Slovenian politics for years and years, why he would be so ignorant that he would manipulate or delegate certain tasks to some lower officials or senior officials if he knew that the originals were stored in the National Assembly and that control by the National Assembly was to his institution run by a man who was from other political options, that it was permanent, and that he would be embarrassed and would prove himself immediately, in the first case. That's a question, too. The next argument I make, which is not a street interpretation, which is not an accusation against the opposition's colleagues, is the following. Above all, in the case of Minister Gorenak, we cannot claim that this is an objective one, not an subjective one, because this procedure is ongoing for 15 years immediately and Minister Gorenak has done nothing in this part of his mandate to change this everyday practice. If this everyday practice of the Ministry of the Interior were to change, they could still be accused somehow. Now we can't charge him because this procedure was essentially going as normal as it was for 15 years. And here's the problem. Today in this debate, we still have empty straw, and we have not focused on direct accusations, direct actions that we can verify with the everyday interpretations that are in force in the legal profession. That's the problem! And when you're saying today that we're just accusing ourselves of not needing arguments that we don't need anything – what are we accusing a person of? Why are we wasting our time on these things? I believe and support and propose a debate in the direction of how we will change this matter. How will these documents be handled in the future? This is an important debate. And in this case it was true, once again, it was a systemic error. Systemic error led to a higher power, and it was only a matter of time before it came to this. And we can't figure it out. And also the anti-corruption commission in its epilogue notes, on page 6, "the commission did not, by its procedure, find facts which would justify the suspicion that the loss of ballots with the signatures of electorates and electorates has occurred by inadvertently or delegated by the responsible persons at the Ministry of the Interior or the National Assembly. Also, according to the Commission, it is not possible to confirm in which body the signatures were estranged or lost." Why are we attacking Minister Gorenak? With what evidence do we prove to him that he took these leaves, that he took so many leaves, and that he alienated them, destroyed them, burned them? This is a problem, a problem of illogical reasoning, illogical interpretation and laziness. I believe that we have gathered members of various professions here, that we have had different experiences, that we have socialised differently in this Slovenian society, that we are from different families, but that we should always give emphasis to those Members when they are more skilled in the legal profession. When they explain to me medical techniques, high school law students, then it's a problem. This is something like I tell my colleagues who are doctors in health legislation when I salt my mind to a fellow agricultural politician who is certainly an expert. That's the problem we have here. As a result, we also lose integrity and credibility in the National Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. As you can see, I'm very rational, I never go to the debate because I appreciate my colleagues because I believe that you all have certain experiences, knowledge that I don't own. It's a shame we're wasting our time, and since we don't have that knowledge, then we start to accuse and go to some personal level. And that's our problem. This is a 20-year-old problem – it is sad that we only have twenty years – of the practice of this parliamentary democracy. This is our basic problem, and this debate today is 18 hours or 16 hours, but it could be concluded within an hour. I thank you for your word. I believe and support all those who have already logically concluded today that this interpretation against Dr. Vinko Gorenaka is a total legal nonsense, in particular legal nonsense, and that it is primarily a barbaric flooding. "In the same case, I would like to point out that I am interested in what the methodology will be, what will be the methodology for dealing with referendum signatures in the future. That is why I am taking the initiative to open the debate after the new year and to set up a system whereby these referendum signatures will be invested and ultimately verified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, Mr Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today's debate, or the fact, is that from today's debate we can only conclude that interpretation is not based on evidence but on assumptions. No body in the investigation of the case and in its reports has found and confirmed the responsibility of Minister Gorenak to be guilty. At the same time, I have the feeling that the opposition has put the interpolation only on suspicion, in the shadow of doubt, to discuss other matters which have no connection with the interpolation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's debate and today's event in this Chamber unfortunately reminds me of Jurčič's Judgment in Visno Gora: everything is happening on suspicions, in the shadow of doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Ambrožič has the floor to prepare Mr Richard Braniselj. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a slightly more general hearing of the debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, all present. Allow me to quote today some of the paragraphs in the publication that I think we have all received from the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption entitled Public Ethics and Integrity, responsibility for common values. In it, Dr. Polonca Kovac, in a contribution entitled Official ethos and a good public administration published in scientific monograph, states among other things: "The officials fulfil their mission if they act within given powers legally, understanding the entire legal order in order to protect the general social benefit and public interest and at the same time the human or legal rights and interests of individuals. Life problems must be taken into account within the limits of competence and regulation, as they can only contribute to a democratic and effective administration." The same article also states that good administration must be provided to individual employees and that it is systematically responsible for the legal regime of authority or for the movement of management. Infringement of ethical principles and standards in the relationship between a public administration representative and a public service user or the addressee of a public standard therefore constitutes, according to the author, unlawful conduct and not only bad practice. However, as an unrelated Member, I hardly know how to present or think of a malicious scheme that could have fuelled this incident that we have faced in the National Assembly, so in this case we can talk about the Minister's objective political responsibility with regard to the missing signatures of the two referendum initiatives, much more so as some indications are that possible practices have occurred in the past. The media also noted the record provided by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, where the same Commission states that the Minister and the MNZ acted contrary to expected integrity when the notification of missing signatures to the National Assembly was forwarded just before the expiry of the deadline. These statements, and also, I would say, the rainbow range of arguments for and against interpretation also gives me great difficulty in deciding how I will act in the vote. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the Minister's objective responsibility in this case prevails, and this responsibility must also be taken seriously and comprehensibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselli. Let's get the mags ready. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President. In the Civil Gazette, as we have already announced, we want to decide on the basis of facts, arguments, evidence and not on the basis of insinuations. I must say, we have carefully examined all the legally relevant facts. We have examined the findings of an administrative inspection, which is actually a professional inspection in this area. The opinion of the information officer is interesting. We have also seen the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption. But we are waiting for something that is also in the process of this moment, and these are the findings of a police criminal and prosecution investigation. And we pay a lot of attention to that. To the last, we will insist, contrary to the position of colleagues from Positive Slovenia who said that whoever stole the photocopies with the signatures is completely irrelevant to them. Well, this is extremely important to us, and we will insist. Personally, I have a slight problem with the Commission's finding to prevent corruption in the part where it says there have been violations of the rules of caucus. We have problems with these cogent rules clearly at the entrance and at the exit of this process. If I touch the entrance to this process, it starts at the reception office. In fact, we have some regulation that is normally regulated: we have a manual on office business which relates to a regulation on office business for public authorities, we have Article 65 of the ZUP, which speaks of the administrative authority having to confirm receipt at the request of the customer, that is to say at the request of the customer. In fact, the problem is probably that we all have different interpretations of what this annex is. In a specific case, the annex was actually a list of signatures. In the reception press, the National Assembly referred to this as one annex. I must say that such conduct is correct in a particular case, even in the course of the proceedings, such conduct is common. Even if we make a deal with 100 pages, no one counts them as 100 annexes, but just one annex. That's what happened with the signature list. It's just an attachment. And there is no coherent regulation in this country that would require this annex to be counted and counted if it is not already settled by the initiator himself. But I also agree with you, who say that this business could also be different, that because of the sensitivity of the matter it would still make sense that this list, however, the leaves count, count. However, at this point in time, to say that there have been breaches of the rules of caucus at the entrance, I think it is too optimistic or too ambitious for the one who claims it. I reject, and I don't think the National Assembly has made this mistake, and we can't report this to the National Assembly. And the other thing is, it's complicated on the way out. Interpellators tell the minister that he has waited too long or that this report from the Ministry has been in the National Assembly for too long. However, we have no problem with this because it was in time. The hands are set precisely for the purpose of not violating, respecting, and for those who have something to do within this time limit to hold that hand. As a matter of fact, an eyewitness who goes to the minister's expense to be able to do this earlier reminds me of the obvious, as if he had to come to work at eight o'clock, to see why he didn't come to work at seven o'clock, if he had the chance. I believe that in these seven days a whole series of extraordinary situations have been concentrated, which, in fact, did not allow the Ministry, even if it wanted to process this matter so quickly as to say so on Monday or even Friday in the National Assembly. We know that we had two sets of referendum signatures, we had an intermission weekend, we had a complication, we had a re-examination of invalid, inadequate signatures, and we had, as the Minister said, and as we can see from the reply, that Tuesday, last day of the deadline, some extraordinary situation at the Directorate where a whole range of activities had to be carried out for the State Election Commission. And all these things actually show that we can't talk about any violations either at the door or at the exit. As a matter of fact, far from being swept under the rug. This is a matter where all of us must insist on finding out who did it, and I want us to speak to ad persons in this matter, find concrete guilt, and we will insist on the end, and in our Group of Members this matter will never be obsolete. We will always want an answer to this question and to find the culprit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, prepare for Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Chairman! Colleague Braniselle and everyone else, we are not responding to this procedure today, nor are we seeking fault. We're not looking for guilt! Today, in this process, we speak and seek responsibility, the responsibility of the Minister. The perceptions of Positive Slovenia from the interpretation – that the discussion may be easier further, allow me to summarize them again very briefly. It is clear to the Minister that he is objectively and politically responsible for the operation and conduct of the Internal Affairs Department, which has resulted in the loss of the confidence of the electorate and the general public in the legality of the work and integrity of the Ministry of the Interior, the National Assembly, which is the competent body for the exercise of the right to referendum. Secondly, because of his actions and omissions from his duties, the Minister has caused such serious consequences for the state of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia that he has lost full confidence in the public and political credibility. That is why, according to our assessment, such a minister can no longer serve as a minister. Once again, we are talking about responsibility, the objective political responsibility of the person who is the head of the Ministry of the Interior. When colleague Breznik said that it was good if Members in debates, even those who are not screams of law, we give an emphasis to those who are more skilled in the legal profession. Yes, absolutely, I agree with him, so I stressed in my debate or when I studied while listening to your discussions, on whom to really rely, which is a credible lawyer in our country, I have relied on three important lawyers, which I will also quote below. But for starters, maybe. Minister Gorenak said today that the opposition is beating an empty straw. We also wanted to draw the attention of several times to the Commission's very clear opinion on preventing corruption. Here is one of these lawyers that I will rely on in the course of my debate. The Anti-Corruption Commission has made it very clear that the Ministry and the Minister acted contrary to integrity due to irregularities. The Commission further calls for serious consideration of taking on objective responsibility to prevent corruption. Today the Minister said, among other things, in the debate, "I am irrelevant." I quoted him. I will say that Minister Gorenak may be irrelevant, and far from being the insignificant function that this man is performing. Minister – function! You're the minister of a major repressive organ base in our country. I wonder if, after all this, when you have cooked after many, at least after my assessment, I believe that this is a subjective assessment, for the post of Minister of Inappropriate Declarations and even after the last most democratic, kindly speaking, failure, which we are talking about today, you still think you are a credible person to occupy this important position. April, Minister, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly's mother's working body, that was when you wanted to prevent the police union's constitutional right to strike, I told you that your conduct was dangerous. That's when you said you felt hurt. At the time, there were headlines in the newspapers, to mention two, "The Minister announced war to the police", "The Gorenak in the offensive against the disobedient police" and so on. But your will has gone even further. You cancelled your contract to the police unions because they disagreed with your policy. At that time, you said that your move was legitimate and that your actions would always be legitimate, according to your beliefs, even if they may not be legal. These are your words spoken at the home work body of the National Assembly. And here I have serious doubts as to whether a person who publicly says that it does not matter whether he acts legally or not is principally acting in accordance with his belief, is indeed a person who can sit in charge of the Ministry of the Interior in a responsible, credible and credible manner and manages the entire policy of this ministry in our country. Let me get on with it. Today there is a lack of confidence in the country, in the politics of the surplus – new demonstrations are announced for Friday. You mark the Commission's opinion to prevent corruption as null and void. You even advised in one of your discussions today what gentlemen should know and do. I would like to say that in such a way you make a very clear joke out of the Constitution, out of democracy and out of independent institutions in our country, which are finally recognised by a number of other international important institutions or countries. Minister Gorenak, you said, "We live in a crucial time. One interpretation against the Minister of the Interior is a minor matter." [[End of quote.]] That's not true, Minister. One interpretation against the Minister of the Interior is an extremely important thing at this time, because it may be a crucial moment in taking responsibility in our country. When I am responsible, allow me, the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language speaks in five points about responsibility. First, the duty to accept sanctions, to give an apology. Second: it is a property, a characteristic of a person who strives to meet standards. Thirdly: this is a task, an obligation. Fourthly, it's a relationship where someone has to explain. And fifthly: it is a property, because due to the importance of the consequences it requires great care. So much for the responsibility of the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. If I continue, I'm with another important lawyer, because I'm going to rely again on a legal expert. Dr. Cerar speaks of responsibility, objective responsibility. Why do I mention him in this context? That is why, Minister, because today you have declared that the only fact is that it can only be a mistake of subordinates. Dr Cerar says: "The Minister is objectively responsible for any act or event resulting from the conduct of the entities directly superior to them." At the same time, Minister, you know, you really need to be aware when you point your finger at the subordinates that all four other fingers are directed at you. Once again, the opinion of the legal expert is very clear on what objective responsibility means. And that's actually what we're talking about today. This is also one of the key features of Positive Slovenia in the interpretation against you. On behalf of the representatives of DeSUS, in the presentation of the position, I noted the statement that "the signatures have been lost and found again". "Why, you can't tell," was said. But I say, the fact that we must all be aware of here today is the fact that the signatures have disappeared! No, why? It doesn't matter. It's unacceptable that the signatures have disappeared. Unacceptable! With this, Minister, you, as responsible, claim to have prevented an objectively responsible person from exercising general and equal electoral rights within a period of time. The referendum initiative of the electorate has been prevented. The constitutional right to a referendum, the highest form of direct expression of human will, has been curtailed. And I believe you know that in Slovenia, after the Constitution, the only people have power. It's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's Comrade Grill said it was impossible to find out where the mistake had taken place. Allow me to resume my objective responsibility, as stated in the professional literature. First of all, there must be a mistake. Second, this mistake is serious or big. Thirdly, the political circumstances must be such that they do not expressly oppose the request for the Minister's resignation or discharge. We're going to make mistakes. The Anti-Corruption Commission, if not otherwise, can read, I will not repeat everything, on page 8 and 9, it speaks very clearly about mistakes. Not to repeat everything, "with such mismanagement and handling of the initiative and with lists of signatories or violations of the regulation on administrative operations and internal guidance on the management and operation of the UNS documented material, effective later verification of the correctness or evidence of facts, important facts and legal certainty of individual electorates and voters, signatories of the initiative in the exercise of the rights to a legislative referendum was effectively prevented". I believe that this is a very clear and very serious mistake that has occurred. And another error, "the Commission notes, however, that the MNZ's response to missing lists or signature lists was fast, with internal investigations carried out relatively quickly. However, according to the Commission's assessment, incomplete, incomplete and superficial. The findings, as it was said, are appropriately incomplete, flawed and do not reflect the actual situation." Second mistake, Secretary of State. Why am I talking about mistakes? Because you said, "When I make a mistake myself or my subordinates make a mistake, there will be no interpolation. In this case, I'll offer my own resignation. Honesty and responsibility with my constituents shall apply." I will remind you that this is not just about the responsibility of your 5,000 and a few other voters who have entrusted you with the vote. This is a responsibility of up to 2 million Slovenian citizens and citizens. You are the minister of all Slovenian citizens and citizens. Rhetorical question: Do you feel that in Slovenia we have really high criteria by which objective responsibility would be recognized and realized? I also ask on the basis of today's debates. If you want, we're setting standards and mirrors for people today. People demand the rule of law, and today they demand it even in the streets. And we agree to excuses that losing referendum votes is a setback. No, no, no. It's not a slip. The policy, which is responsible for the Minister, is headed by this department, which, with the loss of referendum votes, has done an incredible damage: the loss of people's confidence that their vote is untouchable. And here again we come to the point that the referendum is a direct form of expression of human will, because in Slovenia people have power. New Slovenia said that interpellation is based on assumptions, most likely there will never be evidence. There's no way to find the culprit either, and I don't think there's going to be any way to find him. Once again, in the end, interpellation is an institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of a government or individual minister. Today we are not talking or looking for guilt, the culprit, today we are talking about responsibility. If you want to make it easier for you to understand, also colleague Tanka, who said today that, after his conduct, no president of the National Assembly was involved with the signatures, nor was the minister. Yes, but what is an objective responsibility. In November of this year, there was a serious traffic accident in Egypt on the railway, where 49 children died. And you know what happened? Within three hours of this serious traffic accident, when the culprit was not yet known, the Minister of Transport and the Director of Railways resigned on grounds of objective liability and not guilt. To conclude Dr. Andraz Terška's opinion, "Slovak public officials do not want to recognise the existence of an institution of objective political responsibility, they are engaged as the capitals of the authorities". That's the problem, I want to point out, and that's what we want today with this interpellation, Minister, to break. In today's debates, I have practically heard everything possible, apologizing for why some, especially colleagues from your political party, still excuse you in this ministry. I heard everything alive, but I didn't hear what was really important in the whole story. What is important is good, what is important is fair and what is important is duty. These are three extremely important values. Then I'll finish. If you feel a minister's responsibility, an objective responsibility, then I believe we should offer our own resignation from this place. As a result of everything I have stated and pointed out by legal experts, who I believe are the only ones competent to interpret legal standards and also speak of the responsibility of officials, politicians in prominent places in our country. If you do not feel this objective responsibility, then I believe that you will easily sign yourself as a graver of Slovenian democracy today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u123	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I must say, I have a real problem listening to you. Back when you were picking up the billboards over there in that bench. But it's my duty to stay here today, and it's my duty to listen to you, otherwise I wouldn't. That's what you need to know. The objective responsibility you are talking about, of course, according to your subjective assessment. You've read the relatively good findings of the anti-corruption commission. I'm asking you why you don't read pages 7 and 8. On pages 7 and 8, there are risks, misconduct, and everything else in the National Assembly. But I'm not gonna read this because you want to challenge me to attack the president of the National Assembly and our coalition party. I'm not gonna do that if you mean it, it's not gonna work. This will not work because it is not my goal to point to the coalition partner, but my aim is to make clear what you want by unilaterally reading the work of the anti-corruption commission report. And that's the wish to break the coalition. Your goal isn't an interior minister or me or something. Far from it. You've said exactly what your goal is. It's bigger your goal. And the next thing you know, when you talk about unions and spring events, what's legal and what's legitimate. You know, a few more things are going to happen in the area of legality and legitimacy. But perhaps a better example is the one about the 1985-1990 police force, which is a better example of legitimacy. At the time, the police had very clear legal reasons to prevent the demonstrations at the time, but they chose legitimate conduct, and they were not because it was legitimate conduct in line with the interests of the people. And he's doing it in a similar way today. Exclusively and only deals with those who endanger lives and property. And I'm glad that they're doing so well in this area, and I'm also glad that what the judicial branch of power did when it reacted. On the other hand, we have a large majority of the protestors who legitimately, rightly, demand a lot of things. And that's right. And we have to protect you, and we will. Then it must be said that you're clearly in pain of something called police. That's what's bothering you, and that hurts. If you have a clear conscience, it's all right, but if you're in the pioneer service, it's a whole other story. You've told me to step down, not to know everything, but you've knocked on my conscience and you've been a gravedigger of democracy and so on. You know, I'd be ashamed to be a criminal like you. From one party to another, then the state service and back and so on. That would be embarrassing for me. What is added today is something completely different. At some point, you showed me to say finger to subordinates. No, no, no. The subordinates of Beethoven, who have dealt with these signatures, I will protect them for as long as they are not proven guilty. But when they do, this shielding will be over. And so far, the three institutes have found that it is not possible to assess whether there is a mistake in the national assembly or in the internal ministry. So that's how long I'll be on their side, then not anymore. And don't talk about me not being on their side and pointing at them. One more thing about the state of law. You know, what people are saying in the streets today to demand the rule of law, they have 100% – at least mine – support. And I think the support of the government as a whole. When I spoke from that bench about the fact that we don't have a legal state that only works for chicken thieves, and this big one escapes, some of you, then under some other name, laughed and defended something else. When we're preparing any solutions, whether it's Dr. Rooster or it's me, with the prosecutors or whatever, of course, jump into the air to defend what we can today call the lack of the rule of law. You are defending this, and this government is working towards progress in this area as well. And that's your problem, and of course that's your problem. But I'm glad the whole government was here now, practically, when you saw that the government wasn't here this morning. There have already been seven ministers and countless secretaries of state. So much for your knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u125	Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u127	Replica mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, then Mr Marjan Pojbič, followed by Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. It doesn't even make sense, Minister. I've been expecting this response since I've witnessed your debates in the National Assembly and also on television several times. But no problem, it's your right to react that way. Allow me. It's the law that should worry you. To make it public that your legitimacy is before the rule of law, it has given a serious warning to all who give the number to the rule of law and respect for democratic norms in this country. And you've made this public that you're scolding for legality because you're acting legitimately, cool with your conviction. When you redirect me to the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption. I read exactly what I read on page 8. You're sending me to this side. Don't you understand, Minister? When you compare me with a criminal, give it to the minister, I'm glad I'm at a certain point and that I'll probably be making progress my whole life on a personal level, personality growth, maturating. It's a development, a purely common procedure of ordinary people. And you remain obvious as you suggest in your debates, somewhere else. I'm sorry, Minister! And if you'll excuse me, I don't want to be insulting, really, I don't want to be insulting again for the end of my replica. The guilt is something else, but the responsibility is something else, Minister. And today we are talking about your objective political responsibility. I argue that practice should also be in our country, in such cases, that ministers with objective political responsibilities should step down. The president, who sits behind you, wrote an ethical code of ministers within the mandate of the first Janshea government 2004 - 2008. Unfortunately, this government didn't sign it. Perhaps it would be easier then to determine and find the minister's political objective responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u129	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, followed by Mr. Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u130	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I can say that I am really sad, I am really sad that at this time, in this difficult time for Slovenia, the National Assembly deals with whether the documents have been properly published or not. If you ask the Slovenian people what you think they will say when they see what we are doing today in the National Assembly. Do you think the Slovenian nation is at this point the key question of how the documents were written? Dear colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia, are you embarrassed to continue to spend tax money on such an account and in such a way before the complete Slovenian public? Instead of worrying about it and with us looking for solutions for the future of our country — those who do not have a job, those who lose a job every day, those poor pensioners who cannot live. This should be the subject of any moment and a nonstop debate in the National Assembly on how to find the right solutions, but not on what we are dealing with today. Dear colleagues, believe me, you know who should be interpreting, and I'm sure this will happen. I'm sure. When the first elections are held, you will see who will interpel you, colleagues and colleagues from Jankovic's list. You'll see who'll interpell you. And the interpolation will be voted out, and I'll tell you here, if you continue your story this way and do everything you can to make sure nothing changes in this country. And what do you think is the key objective of this interpolation? It's not nearly the goal of overthrowing Dr. Gorenak. Your goal is clear, very broad, first to make a dispute between the Civil Gazette and the SDS, to create unrest within the coalition and thus lay the foundations for the overthrow of the government. Please, who else will fall for you in this country? Don't joke! The MPs and the MPs of the coalition, we're not such fools to fall for this kind of trick, please! Even less so are our citizens and our citizens, our people who have to look at you, poor people who have to look at you. Poor people who have to look at you! Let the world cross once before. And don't do what you do. Every time I speak, I try to tell you, let us do something for our people, because people have voted for us to help these people, but not to hurt them, and from day to day we have wasted what is left. And the rest is nothing. As for the interpolation, today Minister Gorenak, in his address, gave an extremely precise answer to every question asked, every minute, a second, he had an answer to how things were going. What face do you have that you wrote this interpellation to condemn without any argument? And dear colleagues from Positive Slovenia, I must say that I have reviewed all the documents relating to all these things. And I didn't see anywhere that you could say that the leaves or the photocopies had disappeared. Where did you get that information? Someone from Positive Slovenia should answer that question. Where did you get this information about those leaves disappearing? But when you know that nothing has ever been proved that the photocopies have ever been made. It does not appear from any document that all the leaves were photocopied and then disappeared on the way from the National Assembly to the Ministry of the Interior. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but I didn't see this information anywhere within all the documents that were available to me. Where did you get this information about them disappearing? Please, this is the answer I'd like to have today. Because then something is very wrong in this country if someone can have such important information. However, when no one has said and could not prove it, it is clear from all these documents that the Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Commission and so on. See, now I will quote another part of the document of the information officer: "In the inspection not in the DZ, nor in the MNZ, it was not possible to identify the cause of the manna and it was not possible to establish that the missing parts of the photocopy list with the personal data of the initiators of the referendum for the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks would result from deliberate alienation. In both bodies, it was thus found that the documentation of confidential personal data and systemic deficiencies, which did not provide so-called traceability in the transmission of such personal data, was not sufficiently carefully handled." And it goes on to say that these things have already been resolved both in the National Assembly and in the Ministry. And from all that I have heard here today, and from all that was recorded in the interpretation itself, there is not a single clear argument that would attach to what is happening all day, we hear almost ten hours here in the National Assembly on the side of Positive Slovenia. Believe me, you won't convince anyone without an argument. You can still turn things into cellophane, turn them around, and I don't know what you're doing, but you won't convince the Slovenian public, let alone us Members and Members. Therefore, I would expect from Positive Slovenia, after all that has happened here today to withdraw absolute interpolation, the Minister made a public apology because he has no argument whatsoever that he is doing this, which he is doing. You know, when you step on a cat's tail, pick up. It's an old rule, and I can hear it now. Dear colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia, you failed to break the coalition, failed to do so, failed to bring down governments and believe that if you want to continue following these goals, there is no doubt that you will have to do much more to convince the coalition Members to fall for them, I will not say, I will not say, I will not speak harshly, to what there are no words. It was also said, the gravedigger of Slovenian democracy, that Mr. Minister of the Tomb of Slovenian Democracy. Dear colleagues, those who have written this interpolation remember little of the people who are close to you and who know very little about democracy. Just go to the Ljubljana Municipal Council and see what democracy is. Unfortunately, there's a whole lot of you out there, and you should see if you're talking about it, who is the gravedigger of Slovenian democracy. Certainly not, Mr. Secretary. And another thing that seems very important to me is such a strong energy for these referendums to happen. Why, I wonder why so much energy has been invested here and you have done everything possible in this world to put these referendums in place. When I talk to my people, when they come to my people, and even if I go to them for the bar, they tell me that these referendums were not put in for a minor reason, but in my personal opinion and what people say to me, for one key reason, and that is: to prevent all these laws that have been tabled and voted by the National Assembly that nothing would happen where it should happen. And that is that once the responsibility will come to the fore, people will know who the destroyers have stolen this Slovenia. And Mr Minister, I would not like to be in his shoes right now, not now, not even when he has accepted this mandate, because he has an extremely, extremely great responsibility. What do you think the most worried Slovenian nation is at this time? Inaction of the rule of law, non-action of the rule of law or poor functioning. And this is what this legislation, which has been tabled, wants to achieve that certain things will run differently in this area. At the very beginning, when Mr Minister took over this area, it was clear to every Slovenian what would happen and who would be the first to be interpelled. That was clear to everyone. And that's exactly what happened. That's exactly what happened. You want to prevent these institutions from once operating in this Slovenia in the way Slovenia and Slovenia deserve. Please do not disturb where it is absolutely necessary that these institutions now function as much as possible if we want to prove to our people that we want to deal seriously with corruption, with thievery and with everything that is happening in our country at this time. This, however, can only be done in a way that allows these institutions to carry out their work in a responsible and dignified manner. It is essential that certain changes be made in this area. This is what we all know, so I expect from Positive Slovenia that you withdraw this interpretation and that you no longer come to the National Assembly with such things, because this burdens our people working night and day, at night, Sunday, holiday and so on for 700 euros, and here we spend thousands and thousands of dollars on such things. That is why our citizens and citizens certainly did not elect us and believe me that the moment of truth will come. Mr Minister, you have my support absolutely because you deserve it because you are doing what this country needs right now, and thank God, and I hope you will endure to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u131	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor as a proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u132	You know, after every speech like that, I have to say that I'm a bit of a calibrator, because, sir, except for the last sentence that was honest, and I believe that he thinks that, I didn't actually explain whether he's talking about objective responsibility, or he's talking about political or subjective, or he's talking about something third. But the point is, we're still on objective responsibility, and that's the whole story. What we need to be aware of all the time is that someone has to be responsible for the work he does. And it was done badly. In Positive Slovenia, where we filed an intervention against Minister Gorenak, we gave reasons. And these reasons are very clear, the thing of morality and ethics that the President of the Government explained yesterday from that chair that it would be very good to stick to it, it is right that at the moment we are talking about interpretation, you should relieve this circle of coalition and first remember that you are Members and Members of the Republic of Slovenia and you are working in this spirit. But in the end, what you wanted to say is that you don't really need the opposition, because the opposition is disturbing for you, it would be best if you just stayed out in the lobby and actually don't discuss anything because they keep bothering you. You've even gone so far as to discuss it on my behalf because you're talking about the name of all the Slovenes and Slovenes. In my name, Mr Pojbich, you can't explain and say absolutely nothing. But I can do it in mine and I understand you. I understand you've given your support to the minister. And that's all I understood. Objective responsibilities don't untie him. You just gave him support as a coalition MP, who will somehow give a commitment to the minister that in some way he did all right and all O.K. in this process. Three reports spoke of errors, one even went so far as to speak of objective responsibility. That's what we're talking about today. And I'll fix you every time you fall into your matrix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u133	Mr. Pojbich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I am absolutely convinced that there is no question of objective responsibility here and that Mr Minister has no reason whatsoever. There's no reason! From all that has been said here today, I have not understood a single argument that would convince me that we can put objective responsibility at the forefront here. I haven't heard a single true argument, mostly just floscules and insinuations, wondering what would have happened if it had been and so on. The errors that have occurred have been recorded. It's clear who's the one who could have made a mistake if he did it. It's clear! Not the Minister, not the MPs of the National Assembly, not the President of the National Assembly, but the services involved. And between that and the Minister's objective responsibility, I see no connection, so I'm sure there's no way to talk about any objective responsibility here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u135	Mr Dragan Bosic, Mr Matevž Frangež, now has the floor. Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u136	According to the Commission, the whole complication of the lost, missing documents with the signatures of the electorate and the electorate for the initiation of the legislative referendum did not arise because the relevant rules for the management and management of documentary material would not be adopted, but was mainly due to the multi-annual non-compliance and inconsistent enforcement of the existing rules on the protection of personal data and the rules and regulations governing administrative and office operations. It is also the result of insufficient care provided by DZ and MNZ public officials in handling and dealing with the referendum initiative in question. As a result, both the DZ and the MNZ could not and cannot demonstrate with certainty or convincing certainty that the loss or removal of 36 letters with signatures and personal details of 307 voters and voters supporting the referendum initiative did not occur in the National Assembly or the MNZ. However, the supervisory authorities, such as the Information Officer and the Commission, cannot fully establish the actual situation, which is unacceptable in the light of the fact that the rules on office operations have also been adopted with a view to reconstructing the event. This did not result only from the threat to the realization of the constitutionally guaranteed and the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative of a specific right of citizens to a legislative referendum, but in particular helped to record another unresolved affair in the history of Slovenian constitutional democracy and thereby further weaken the integrity and confidence in the professionality and correctness of the operation of both the DZ and the MNZ. The latter, according to the Commission's findings, is the basis for a reasonable expectation of the introduction of the relevant rules, procedures for the identification and enforcement of public servants' responsibilities, as well as a serious consideration of the takeover of the possible objective responsibilities of public officials. Mr. Pojbich, you're shooting at nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u137	Mr. Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u138	Well, I've been waiting. Thank you. My debate is actually slightly modified, given what I heard from 9 a.m. on. At 10.07, Mr Gorenak said that we must respect the laws and the constitution. I couldn't agree more. And that's where I'd start. In the case of Maribor, the Constitution and laws were not respected. So, the Public Assembly Act, Article 4, and Article 42 of the Constitution. You said earlier that you are in favour of the rule of law, which I respect, but this claim for the rule of law was painful in Maribor, either for those who were not fast enough, or for those who felt that they were not threatening anyone with their pacifism. To make it easier for me to discuss it further, I would like to redefine the concept of fact, because I think it was abused here before. The fact of science, we know what it is, is said to be confirmed or verifiable. This is where I got the feeling that the Minister's fact was given the information. That's why I don't know what weight I'm supposed to have for things that I'm referring to as facts. But if I take into account the fact that you said that people have been manipulated by individuals, then logically I conclude that these people are so limited that they can be manipulated by individuals, and these are my people. And there is no way that I can accept this fact that it is limited people who can be manipulated by individuals, which means that we should almost feel sorry for someone. They've already intertwined you, but their voice doesn't sound. But there's another question, something that has hurt me personally. By the way, you pushed me into some kind of political lukewarmness. I don't know what I'm supposed to do in political milk. And that he was supposed to be the pear of someone, or he was supposed to represent the interests of someone who lost his temper. Look at me! Do I look like a pierre to you? Please, if you can give me a concrete answer to this question. You predicted it at the beginning, but I didn't hear it. On the basis of all the above, I will, clearly, insist and support it. However, I wonder how other colleagues will justify not supporting interpretations to people who have stood on the other side of the shields that are constantly creeping between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u139	Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u140	Within 20 years of the birth of this country, we have come a long way. I am convinced that these days the transition is breaking and that a period is ending. During this period, we can find that many things have remained unpunished and that responsibility has not found its addressee. Today's debate on this interpolation still shows that when we should claim responsibility, we are looking for guilt. That's two different things. To determine whether someone has committed a crime or not or acted before the law as it should be done, we have a court in this country. And these courts must judge guilt or innocence. The presumption of innocence, therefore, that someone is innocent until proven guilty, must be defended to the last breath of democracy, since it is also one of the first defenders of the rule of law. In fact, the rule of law is built on this assumption. But that's what the court is all about. And we're talking about something else today. We are not talking about whether Vinko Gorenak had a direct responsibility with his fingers, that either because of gross negligence or even with intent caused the conclusion that the referendum requirement does not contain a sufficient number of signatures because a certain part of these signatures has disappeared. We're not judging his guilt today. We in this country and in this House are assessing the issue of responsibility. And for us politicians, it should be a significantly higher standard than whether the court finds me guilty or not. We should be subject to the standard of elementary political credibility. The events surrounding the signatures – and more still, the events in the protests finally strengthened me in the conviction that I no longer trust Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Internal Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. In my eyes, he has no credibility to continue to perform this important function, which enables him to control an important part of the repressive apparatus in this country. One more time. Today we do not decide on his guilt; today we decide whether there is a political responsibility for the events of missing signatures and later events, and certainly also for the events in the excessive force of the police at the protests in Maribor. Today, the child who threw in the fervor of demonstrations is a granite cube in the fervor of rebellion because the police believe there is a recurring danger. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, whether there is a recurring danger that Dr Vinko Gorenak will again, on the next occasion, cause what I personally believe is behind the entire operation of the disappearance of signatures. It's a question of whether people in this country wanted to steal their voice on purpose. It is a question of whether, before the open eyes of all of us in this country, someone has tried to steal democracy from this nation. That's the question. I have already told you my opinion of the guilt, Mr. Secretary, personally. You can't prove this guilt. Or at least I don't know the facts to which I'd base my accusation that you're guilty. However, I claim that you are politically responsible and that, as Minister, you should assume an objective responsibility and step down. At this point, I cannot isolate this communication from the President of the National Assembly. Dr. Virant, even though I respect you, I also told you that in your case, it is not only an objective responsibility, I believe, but also an subjective responsibility. Why? Because you have relied on facts which have not been verified with sufficient care on the end of the signature collection process. I believe you haven't acted maliciously, so you don't hear my loud calls for resignation. However, I would argue that you did not take sufficient care to do so. You're talking about a mistake, Mr. Gorenak. All day long, the debate is about a mistake being made in the process. I'm saying it wasn't a mistake. I am afraid that it was a deliberate attempt to ensure that the work of the people who signed their signatures demonstrated their intention to decide on an important issue in this country at the referendum, to take away their voice, takes away their will. This is an act that is fundamentally threatening the democracy on which this country is built. When we talk about political responsibility, the media likes to ask the question about the five Members who have their sins. The president of the National Assembly often points to them by pointing to their own actions to protect the reputation of the National Assembly. But, Your Honor, don't mind me mentioning once again the culmination of the hypocrisy in this country, when we weigh between political responsibility and guilt, while someone is innocent until otherwise proven to him by the court, and the issues of political standards that should apply in this country and which should first bind us. Because, you know, this is how I understand the message of protests, they demand that we finally begin to take responsibility in this country where the elements of this responsibility are given – when I do not do my job properly when it is not done by anyone else, let the Minister or the Prime Minister be. And when we speak of sins in the past that undermine the credibility of this house, no doubt, we forget that this Parliament has elected the Prime Minister of man accused of corruption of international dimensions. And this is a hypocrisy, respected and respected! Because it should also be subject to higher standards – standards that it is not possible to act as Prime Minister of the Government or Minister or Member of the National Assembly if it is credible that, in order to ensure that prosecutors in at least three countries feel that you have acted corruptly in relation to the function you perform at a given time and that not only the trust of this Parliament is consumed, but the trust of the nation, the question of who is leading it and who its leaders are. Dear Dr. Vinko Gorenak, my conclusion is clear, I don't trust you, and I will therefore support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u141	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I've got to respond, I've been expecting to get to the point where we're going to have to discuss police work. In your performance, Mr. Frangež, I recognize the elements of the pre-election performance, as you said you announced that you would run in Maribor. Mr. Jakič, as far as I know, the National Assembly is chaired by the president, directs, he gives the floor, he takes the word, and you don't have it right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u143	Mr. Jakič, we wouldn't have been so intolerant without getting the word. The Minister now has the floor, I have not yet seen anything offensive, I do not know if Mr Frangež will replicate, he will be able to respond, and now Dr Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. However, as for police performances, the following must be said. Slovenian police officers have never been in a situation like these days. They know everything they know from books and training. Never in Slovenia has what is happening now – violence. And everything we know, everything that European police have good practices in this area, is also ours – after the Paris demonstrations in 1968. Maribor was the first such case. In this case, Slovenian police officers were also trained and citizens did not have real experience and information about police editorials. However, here in Ljubljana at the first violent demonstrations, as I recall, accompanied by the President of the National Assembly, we have made it clear to the Slovenian public that we know how to separate a peaceful protestor who legitimately and peacefully and non-violently sets out his demands. As far as I know, to all of us. And the one who breaks and threatens human lives. That's why I'm not going to agree to talk about police violence as such, at least as long as I'm in this role, no. I'll protect all the police officers who are legally managing their duties. And they perform these tasks very well. And that's why you Members could have gone home peacefully when there were demonstrations here, only some of them were in Parliament, among them the president, who could have seen what it looked like in person. And I visited these people, you know, in the hospital. And here in front of Parliament. I personally met some 200 to 300 people. Go among them, talk to them after they've got the dice in their heads and still have the will to keep the peaceful demonstrators from the bullies – after they've already got the dice in their heads. I'm glad we have cops like that. You know, I also visited the last Saturday of someone on Ptuj, who's about your age, has a family, two kids. He's been hurt so he doesn't have any guarantee that he'll ever hear it in his life. In one ear. And there's no guarantee that his leg will be blown up by a cannon strike, as we call it, when it was originally. And that's why I'm not gonna let you talk about these people like those who commit police violence. No, these are the people who protect you and protect all the peaceful citizens. And that's how it's gonna stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u145	Replica, Mr. Matevž Frangež, then Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u146	Mr. Minister, you have used my debate very skillfully for this pear implant. I appreciate the work of the police, too. I, too, appreciate that in a state faced with a host of demonstrators, they are willing to stand there. I appreciate even more their willingness to fasten their jackets with a red frame and thus show which side of the protests they are on. I agree with you, the police should be there to protect the demonstrators, in order to protect their right, constitutionally guaranteed the right to peaceful assembly, because this is once again one of the foundations on which this country is built. And if I condemn the excessive use of the police force, the distinguished minister, it does not mean that I do not sympathize with those police officers who have been targeted by violence in these demonstrations as well. I repeat, however, when the police force is used in this country, this Parliament will decide whether we will discuss this. Not the Minister of the Interior. This House! Because this Parliament is a place of civilian control over the work of the police, and that is not up to your judgment, Mr. Minister. About the election campaign, that's all. We are all politicians, all of us, including you, Mr Minister, are on an election campaign every day. Every day we fight for people's trust. Because this trust establishes the credibility that we can work as politicians if we have elections three months or three years from now. Don't tell me, dear Dr. Gorenak, I know you as a colleague in this National Assembly, whether you have taken every opportunity to talk your part of the public into building confidence in you, in ideas and in the politics you represent. I therefore propose that we do not disqualify on this basis because no candidacy has yet been announced and the public will be informed when the decisions are taken. Even if it were, this would not be the point at which you would refuse to discuss with me as a member of the National Assembly, which demands your responsibility because of your actions or your abandonment of your conduct, Mr Minister-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u147	The minister signed up for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u148	Very briefly. I'm not going to do this part of you because it doesn't make sense. I've already told mine about the cops and their work. But I forgot to answer one thing before. The kids are in jail, you said. Yes, for Christ's sake! At this time, however, I think we might already know the Penal Code or the Criminal Procedure Act. You can't put a kid in jail. And that's why there are no children in Maribor. They could be under the age of 18 in prison, and there is no incarceration. According to the data I received from the police, there is no person under 18 years of age. But they're the ones up to 25. And their guilt was not proven by the police. Data on their alleged guilt was given by the police. She was shaken up by the D.A.'s office. They proposed a detention. It was assessed by the investigative judges who reached this detention. And now it's confirmed by the out-of-court Senate. Do not copy this to the police, which is one of the four members of this chain. And there are no children and there are no minors. But they're smashers and spoilers. That's what the police, the D.A., and the court assessed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u149	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, then Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, after nine and a half hours of discussion, sour soup was still sour soup and steak was still steak and Vinko Gorenak was still Vinko Gorenak. I was wrong to say that you made a dialectic leap on one of the boards, and apparently I was wrong. You have remained exactly as we have known you, especially as a good member of the opposition, and worse than a minister. We'll talk about this later. In democratic countries, either the vote or the referendum signature is untouchable. In non-democratic regimes, it can also be manipulated. Where do we belong? I don't know. Who's gonna take responsibility for this, I don't know. Looks like it's the Martians' fault. The aliens came here and stole our voices. You're never responsible in the coalition, you never blame anything, you're innocent as angels. The fact is, at least let them be coherent in your statements. The president and the presidents of the coalition parties have all stated that this is a first-class political scandal – the disappearance of signatures. That's what you all said. Let's make a deal today whether it's a scandal or not a scandal. Will this scandal get the epilogue or not get it? Or some of the lower officials in the Ministry will be guilty of this, possibly politically incompatible with the minister. In your defense, the Minister apologizes for the technical shortcomings, the unloving mistakes that have taken place. But the coalition is happy to sum this up for you and the expected, very expected vehementness of the criticism turns to a shameless opposition, which is beyond its control, rather than hindering the most capable government in the history of modern Europe. Minister Gorenak, and perhaps also Virant, are an institution that has stolen from the legal process, so to speak, stole the citizens' referendum signatures in order to prevent a referendum on a bad bank. Perhaps this is why the minister feels offended, for he is convinced that he was doing well for the country. From his point of view absolutely. And did he really work for the benefit of all citizens? I don't think so. I must especially be grateful to the Minister for two matters. In his defense today, he said some things that I really appreciate. First of all, he said that this matter concerning the signatures of the Members of the Positive Slovenia, which you have examined, came to the Ministry as a complaint from the National Assembly. That's what he said, he even repeated it twice, from the National Assembly. Look at the magnetogram. And then he said that Mrs. Zupevchevchev was like a witness. However, I am interested, given that these anonymous charges are coming, whether it is not in the police section that it is a habit to examine the suspect first, then the witnesses will be invited later on if they want to clarify some of the elements. Therefore, no one will convince me that this is not about organised, delegated engineering of the largest government party, in which some of the major experts in graphology have also become, and also about various procedures, to produce regularly a variety of nebulosis such as these anonymous complaints. That's a fact, and now you turn around as you please. But I can tell you, but there's no time, from history, how much of it there was. The minister also said about these signatures that he didn't even know those signatures came because he was at lunch with Mr. Tank. So once he knew, he didn't know. Once these signatures came through anonymous citizens, they came out of Parliament once. And in the end, there's the thesis that the president of the National Assembly should actually do it, but he didn't. That's why someone else sent this complaint. All of these things have already been brought into our parliamentary group today. We should now pour ashes on our heads and say, I'm sorry that we were even hoping to shudder at this matter, in this scandal, which is incomprehensible in the history of modern Slovenia. I repeat, you have declared these things scandalous. And now you're reading that we've filed for interpolation. Today we find responsibility, we do not find that we are not tribunals to determine the criminal offence under the law on criminal proceedings. This may be another time, even though I don't believe it. I don't think there's going to be any "chimp" like some mob scapegoat going to say, "Yeah, we picked it up, or, like, we threw someone out." When a coalition defends these procedures, it assumes an objective responsibility. This must be perfectly clear to you. The entire coalition assumes this objective responsibility and let them talk to each other about who is responsible. However, if you think that we will withdraw our efforts to investigate the matter, then I will tell you that we will use all the instruments of the rule of law to get to the bottom of this. That's what I'm telling you. And even if you are unable to assume objective responsibilities, there will be another. There's something else I'd like to say. These poor feelings from the Minister's hearing have unfortunately been confirmed in practice. At the hearing, we had the feeling that the Minister was sent to this area, strengthened by the State Prosecutor's Office, not to defend the rule of law, to care for a repressive body, but to implement his client's policy. And I can say that's true. We have actually received a loyal party soldier in this place, and I am not surprised that these or other anomalies are coming. Some of you have already talked about this, and I would argue with him about his statement when he said, "For a cop who gets a cube in the head, whether he's a left or right bully, we're not going to explore a political connection. To us, they're criminals." In principle, I can agree with his statement. At the same time, he says, "Vinko Gorenak is a irrelevant person, he will prove himself in the course of today's debate or later, who is behind all this." This is where I would look for political backgrounds, connections, but those who were sent to break the demonstrations, not. Not there. Again, one such strange twist. And speaking of establishments, I must say that I am most disappointed with the minister in that part of today, when he was politicising at a very low level with Members, I also disqualified them with their political past. But here I have to say, if we're talking about some kind of plant, it was really Copernicus' turn that Comrade Militia Vinko became Minister Gorenak. This is really a first-class political twist. When someone treats me with political malaise, not only is he rude, but he actually proves to himself that he is unable to perform this function. In fact, he is not able to perform this function, so I will not have any dilemma when I vote today on his responsibility. But don't say we're just talking about not making any evidence. For me, with regard to objective political responsibility, it is sufficient that we have received from the Anti-Corruption Commission that the competent ministry and the Minister have acted contrary to the integrity established by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. I don't need anything else to define politics. It's actually an inappropriate person at the responsible state-owned ministry, so I'll tell you that I'm going to support this interpolation. But we will use, no matter how you stay, all the levers that the Constitution and the rule of law allow us to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u151	Mag. Leila Hercegovac and then Mr. Lucky Meh. If I understand correctly, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot has resigned. Don't you? Good. Then it's mag. Leila Hercegovac, then Mrs. Mariana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you, Chairman. The ministry of Mr Gorenak is very important for the country and therefore people expect the best image of the minister. Always. And not just this ministry, but all of them. According to the last working survey, 61% are convinced that you, Mr Gorenak, should indeed resign from the post of Minister of the Interior. Mr Minister, not only in Positive Slovenia, but also in the public many sins are manifest to you. I'll just list a few. First time. An attempt to prevent a referendum initiative – I apologize if I repeat the matter, but these are the facts that need to be repeated – by delaying the notification of the National Assembly, whether the initiative meets the legally prescribed conditions or whether it has been signed by enough full-year citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Another time. Inadequate and non-business due diligence on the handling of signatures has been revealed to have already disappeared in connection with the Bad Bank referendum initiative, with 394 signatures being collected. Third time. Loss of confidence of voters and voters in the legality of your work and your integrity, because with many contentious statements and contentious rhetoric and some misleading indications of what is allowed and what is not in Slovenia, you are giving up on your own. And the fourth time. With the police unions you illegally cancel the union contract, as confirmed by Dr. Rajko Pirnat on the Home Affairs Committee. Please state that the demonstrations against Mr Kangler are illegal, that they have not been reported and are therefore not allowed. Demanti your statements is the Law on Public Meetings itself, where it is specified in Article 4 that we know organized and unorganized meetings in Slovenia. Your statement is also corrected by Dr. Miro Cerar, who lets people know what is true, that the marriage allows a meeting, even if it is not declared. Mr Minister, I believe you are doing the best, but you have made too many mistakes in such a short time that today, when we vote on interpretation, we can avoid deciding whether or not we really live and want to live in the right state of law or not. Even if your confidential voice is voted today, the interpolation evidence will still live with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u153	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor, followed by Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Nice greeting to all of you who are here! Today, in this debate on the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, several debaters have found that the Minister is carrying out his work in a responsible, successful and correct manner. I will not object to these views in my debate, because I would like to discuss in particular what happened to the signatures or the fact that the signatures of the initiators for the implementation of the legislative referendum on the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks have been lost. This is a serious stain that fell on the National Assembly and on the Ministry of the Interior. After examining all the documents available to us, there could be a prevention of the right of citizens and citizens as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 3, which states, I quote: "In Slovenia, the people have authority. Citizens and citizens therefore execute it directly by referendum." It didn't come to that. It did not come because investors objected to the fact that they had not submitted too few signatures, because the National Assembly had kept the original signatures, and finally it did not come because the President of the National Assembly had ordered an investigation into the handling of signatures which showed that a sufficient number of signatures had been submitted and that there was a lack of signatures at the Ministry of the Interior. Ms Masha Kociper said in her debate today that someone must be responsible for this. Yes, I agree. Someone has to be responsible for this. However, the person who will be subjectively responsible for this must be proven guilty of his conduct which resulted in the disappearance of these signatures. I hope and expect the criminal police to find the real culprit and this one will be responsible for what happened. Minister Gorenak, I think we can only see objective responsibility, because subjective responsibility for missing signatures cannot be proved or proved. Regarding the handling of signatures, the investigating authorities identified the following. First, in the National Assembly, handling the original signatures was careful. Secondly, for the Ministry of the Interior, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption found in its report that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry as an institution did not comply with the expected integrity or stated that they did not act against the expected integrity, namely, when they submitted a formal notice of missing signatures to the National Assembly only before the expiry of the legal deadline. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission has assessed that these circumstances justify the fact that in this part it was an intentional and delegated negligence of due diligence for proper, timely, effective and quality implementation by law and other rules of certain tasks, and the obligations of the Minister, which at the same time constitute the exercise of an important democratic and constitutional right guaranteed by the referendum of the electorate and electorate. Since the Ministry of the Interior had notified the National Assembly only a few days earlier of the known fact just before the expiry of the legal period, it could be impossible for the initiators to complete the application within the time limit. I believe that, in the case we are considering, it is at least an objective responsibility. What is an objective responsibility, we have already heard it today, but I would like to repeat it. This is a political responsibility for any conduct of entities to which a person is a person, i.e. an objective liability holder, directly superior and for any political conduct or event that falls formally or informally within the working group of people leading them. So it's an objective responsibility without direct guilt. I believe that we cannot deny that Minister Gorenak would be irresponsible for this objective responsibility, so I believe that there is an objective responsibility in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u155	Replica, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u156	Your Honor, thank you very much. I very much appreciate a respected colleague, and I would only like to repeat it because I would like that to be clear. Maybe you weren't there, I don't know, I wasn't paying attention, I was just discussing in the direction you said, Mrs. Kotnik Popotat. I have stressed that something is objective, political responsibility, it can also be subjective of course, something is subjective criminal responsibility, which will be identified by law enforcement authorities and by the court in the case of a responsible person or a leading or specific employee. Just an explanation, because I don't care about your opinion, that's exactly what I've been discussing myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u157	Mr Happy Meh has the floor, then Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u158	Ladies and gentlemen! In a way, we are now in an extremely crucial and important moment, of course, I am talking about the National Assembly. The National Assembly must answer the question whether we have done everything necessary to protect democracy, the rule of law and do what the electorate and the electorate require of us, expect voters and voters to do what they have given us their vote for, and we have said that we will do so. Democracy means that people have the right to collect signatures and people disagreed with what we accepted in the National Assembly, I am talking about state holding and bad bank. And then people decided to collect signatures because they disagreed with what we accepted here. And these people who were collecting signatures were in violation of their right to decide what they disagreed with. From here on out, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly decides on the rule of law. We don't want Minister Gorenak and we'll never prove guilty, we're not called to do that. However, we must say and decide whether he is subjectively or objectively responsible because he is the head of a ministry that has not responded and has made a mistake. We need to answer the question. We can say whatever we want, but there are no 300 signatures. They were absent, disregarded, and human rights were violated so that they could make the right decision at that time. Therefore, it is extremely important that we do not protect Dr. Vinko Gorenak, protect the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, protect democracy, the right to an ethical right, the moral rights of the people who have signed, are convinced that they have entered signatures as is right, and then those signatures have not come to the place where they should be, where they should be confirmed, where they would have the right to continue collecting signatures. That is why there is no need to talk about guilt or innocency today. We need to talk about what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen, like the National Assembly. This is extremely important. And if today the National Assembly decides not to support the interpretation, we will not make the right decision. We will not make a good decision because we are not looking for guilt, as the investigating authorities and other authorities might be looking for it, and they still have every opportunity to do so. We are looking for an objective responsibility for a situation in which people could not express their rights. And whatever we're saying today, there were no signatures, the signatures came late, we didn't allow people to add them. And for that, someone has a responsibility, an objective responsibility. It would therefore be right to decide on this objective responsibility today, and to say that we must not act in such a way that we do not support it without the support of the National Assembly. It is not essential whether this has been proposed by Positive Slovenia. Anyone could have given an initiative to interpolate because someone is responsible for not having these signatures. Now let me just say this, if the people on the road are justly fighting for their voice to be valid, then it would be right to hear them say we understand what they have told us. They told us, ladies and gentlemen: Members and Members, we trusted you, we gave you a vote, you decide right! Therefore, I do not think that we are proving subjective guilt, we are proving objective guilt, and this objective guilt will be absolutely the one for which we have to vote on the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u159	Mr. Janez Fishich, then Mr. Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We live in difficult times. Today we should talk about many things that are important to the people who are important to this country. People expect that from us. People want to hear something positive from us. Even some light point at the end, not the worst from day to day. I am aware that today's debate is putting me at great risk. But people have entrusted me with this mandate, so I am obliged to take risks and do my duty and not to think about the consequences. If I caught any minister in a bad job, I'd be condemning it. No matter what the consequences. This time, too, I follow human logic and my own conscience, knowing that I will secure the indignation of an invisible but very active force. The motive of the leader of the opposition for this interpolation is, as in other activities of the opposition, primarily his own benefit. This interpretation, which has been submitted by the opposition, with an emphasis on Positive Slovenia, I see as a threat to the institutions responsible for ensuring the rule of law and security in our country. Your message is, leave his family alone. He's got power. He's allowed everything. This is how you use the interpolation institute. With a mouth full of concern for the nations' welfare, and with a mild smile to mock a well - intentioned people, it is just a terrible thing to do. Today we do not decide on the political future of a minister, we decide on the preservation or disappearance of the last remnants of humanity. That's why I won't support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u161	Mr. Ivan Pišek, then Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much, President. Today, I was going to speak or give some chronological evidence as to what was going on. But I've seen for the last two hours that it doesn't make sense, and I've decided on some other concept. It doesn't make sense, because today all day, one thing and the same thing are repeated, the facts are not taken into account. Today, the minister probably repeated 20 times why the documents went or why they were reviewed again on Monday. He made it clear that because there was a very small difference to the 2,000 500 needed. And imagine what would have happened, what the opposition would have done if it were later found that there were some unwarranted signatures among these rejected signatures, but that they were unjustifiably rejected, and perhaps they lacked the 2,000 500 quotas needed. It would probably be a revolution here in the National Assembly. I have to say, I'm not only disappointed with the readings from the interpolation, but I'm already hurt. All the time, there are some accusations that don't actually have a basis. It was said that the Slovenian Democratic Party was directing investigations. I'm a member of the SDS, and I haven't directed anyone anywhere. I don't know. Tell me who. The colleague earlier said that it was clear among Members that anonymous applications had been made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I'm a member of this group too, and I don't know who sent it. Let him say his name and last name if he gave it to me. Mr Möderndorfer blamed everything on average, from those famous forged or unforgivable signatures, what we did in the Slovenian Democratic Party, what effect the Minister has on the functioning of the law enforcement authorities. And I don't know, he said here before that he called the criminalist, that he had told him when to come to the National Assembly, that he had told which room to come to, and then made out of this entire hall, a media spectacle, because he knew that there was then a meeting of the National Assembly and the journalists were here, and of course it would be in Slovenia and the world. If this is the way to search or buy some space in public, I do not know if Parliament is the right place for such matters. Colleague Žgajner had previously accused the minister or spoke of a famous board meeting a month ago, two where I was present myself. She said that the minister then spoke about the legitimacy of his decision or that he preferred legitimacy over legality. I was in this session and I heard what he said. The minister said, "I acted legitimately. The lawfulness or illegality will be judged by other authorities." This means that he did not say that he acted unlawfully, but would be judged by the authorities responsible. We're not Members, I guess. The same Member spoke at one of the Committees after the State Secretary's debate, for three minutes she debated, said, "No, I don't agree, it's not right, you're going to destroy the country, that's not how it works." And then she said, "Did you talk about it? Of course he didn't talk. He was talking about another thing. She didn't listen properly, but she does, because she's in the opposition, she has to be against it. This way is pretty sad or maybe even split. If we're getting together, let's do exactly what he said, not twist and twist words. At these recent events, I'm sure it was seen that it was not an important reason. It's important to find someone to blame who'll be on duty to expose himself. And Minister Gorenak was a suitable target because, at the beginning of his term, he had some disagreement with certain groups, which he was not guilty of. There was a misunderstanding because he couldn't share more than he had. He couldn't split up anymore because he didn't get it anymore. This is the legacy of the former capitals, former ministers, former governments, not the present ones. I'm only going to make one more point, that's to make it impossible for the referendum to take place. Do you think, experienced Members, I'm a novice, but I'm learning some things here, do you think the Minister has a chance to prevent a referendum initiative, or do you think we Members have a chance to do anything here? And we're puppets in the hands of officials. 14 days ago, she was in Parliament, I don't know, the secretary, the vice-secretary, who told us about the events surrounding the 'Balkan warrior' when we were looking for ways to change, how to make a difference so that it wouldn't happen again, to every question that we can't do it, that's not going to change. All in the name of human rights, which we protect with us, because we have significantly greater standards than those in Europe. And then here's our option, we should go somewhere together, do something to change this, we'll really have authority in our hands, we'll adopt laws like that that will work, we'll pass laws that will give the prosecution a chance to condemn criminals. I believe that people, too, realize that not all politicians are corrupt in Slovenia, just as not all directors are thieves, not all, I don't know, teachers are lazy. But it is true that there are probably some of them among politicians, as there are among directors. And here's the task of the prosecution, the courts, of condemning this to lead to a final conclusion. But our job is to make it possible for them to make proposals. But then, if we don't do our job here, then it's only right that he condemns us, too, to take us out of Parliament. I invite you, please, to step together, to reject this interpolation, now is an opportunity, people will understand if we really show will that we want to change something. But it's not that we're going to object because we're either in opposition or in position. Only my comment when colleague Frangež mentioned the events in Maribor earlier. I come from there, too. I'll say, the cops were waiting in line, the bottles, the firecrackers, all kinds of sticks. After the first officer passed out, almost unconscious, they moved on. How long should we wait for yours? To kill them or what? I don't know. Look at the most democratic country in the world, America, there's a police officer with respect, personality, state authority. There's a criminal waiting for a cop with his hands on the wheel, if not, a police officer has certain powers. We would not allow them here to react to these hooligans, who have no basis or desire for some peaceful, just demonstration, but just to make a mess. I'm sure those who are imprisoned in Maribor are not innocent children. If they were innocent children, they'd probably be in school at the time, not in the front row with the hammers in their hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u163	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek, and for her, a mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u164	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that I am no puppet and no one controls me. However, I am glad that at least one of those parties admitted to belonging to this category that someone can manage. The fact is that 36 lists of signatures for the invitation to tender for a bad bank referendum have disappeared. The fact is, we do not know whether it is in the National Assembly or at the Ministry of the Interior. The fact is that the originals were insured in the National Assembly, so that no real loss or damage to the applicants could occur. The fact is that any damage has been prevented for the initiators of the referendum, the fact is that the investigating authorities have not yet done their work and another whole bunch of facts has been counted by Minister Gorenak. But the first and greatest fact is that you have lost your signatures, Your Honor, you can both share this guilt, Minister Gorenak and Chairman of the Virant National Assembly. But who will be responsible for this scandal, and the scandal has even been called by the President of the Government? Even more scandalous is that no one takes on these responsibilities, objective political responsibilities. Do you think it is right that such a thing as has happened in Slovenia may be without this political responsibility, a respected minister and a respected president of the National Assembly? Minister, you haven't been Minister of the Interior for a year, and you've already had a number of problems and problems. It is also true that for now you are the only minister in Slovenia alone who has enjoyed interpretation. We've never had one of these before. You're also the only minister who's already announced events in certain investigations that are about to take place. And, of course, he's even looking forward to it. The Minister can't afford to do that. But you're the best. The best in arrogance, the best in scheming, the best in suspense, and the best in insulting all the averages. I agree with you, and I'm glad to have the police we have, but I'm not sure if our officers and your officers are happy to have such a minister. What you have allowed and done with the signatures of the people who requested a referendum is unacceptable. What you've allowed with our signatures is unacceptable. Both are unacceptable to a country such as Slovenia, a democratic state. The whole of Europe has been appalled by what has happened with the signatures, and I think we would be even more disgusted in earlier democratic America. You put Slovenia by the side of Belarus. Police verification of Members' signatures is unacceptable for Europe as a whole. We have been able to read in the media how we would check the signatures of Members in democratic European countries. Mr Minister, they wouldn't have been if these Members had said that their signatures were what we did. The police are said to be checking parliamentary signatures on the basis of an anonymous application. I ask for a clear answer, I think, but this is the third, fourth or even fifth time that the police receive anonymous reports and what the average police response time is for anonymous reports. And if the response time is in this case, I'm going to give him the name of the letter, shorter than the average time, we have reason to suspect that it was a policy intervention in the work of the police. Someone had to order them such a quick response, and it was my opinion that it could have been just you, the well-respected minister. Criminals came in and found the signatures were their own. Logically, since we've been telling you this all along, you didn't believe it. You just burned yourself when you ordered quick action because you were expecting a different result. The document on the number of citizens' signatures relating to the request for a referendum on a bad bank has a lower, I will appoint an identification number as a document on the Slovenian State holding. According to domestic law, the Bad Bank document was prepared earlier than the Slovenian State Holding document. I told you this and asked you about your visit, which you are sorry for, in our Group of Members, but there was no answer. I believe you've been able to figure out how and what this month. It is true that this last document on the Slovenian State Holding was sent immediately to the National Assembly. I believe that the reason was the successful agreement to withdraw the request for a referendum with the unions. The document, which said that the signatures for the referendum on the bad bank were not sufficient, was prepared and signed earlier, and you were speculatively retaining it until 15 minutes before the expiry of the deadline when the signatures could be completed. Why not? Because you wanted to prevent the referendum. That's the only possible answer. I also want to get clear answers to the question why you have kept a letter about not having enough signatures for so long, why are you deceiving people when you are talking about some additional manual verification? This is not evident from the information system, but you were very happy to comment on that first document after it came to the public. Of course, this document was made early Friday morning, after my assessment of this behavior you gravely violate constitutional law, and this is why we should resign ourselves, respected minister, without interpretation. But, of course, you have a completely different mission and the mission and the violation of constitutional rights is not the reason that I would tell you to resign. "You want the coalition to break down in any way," you say, Minister. We don't have to try very hard because you don't agree on a few things. However, I am very happy that today, in addition to your party, which I have not doubted will support you, all the other coalition parties will show how much they value the rule of law. We owe it to people to show that the rule of law is working. And part of the rule of law is also objective political responsibility. But instead of being nice today, with arguments, defending ourselves and explaining to us why our interpretation is wrong, all day long, I'm going to say uglyly, you're loading everything else than what we're reading to you. When you were sitting in your previous term, I don't think there's any opposition there, I don't remember Mrs Katarina Kresal putting in court to determine her responsibility there. You've been interpreting it several times in this National Assembly, but I don't think any, but there was really no guilt at the time. But of course, when it turns around, it turns around, and it's a different thing. Offenders, political milk or milk or I don't know what you've found. I, Madam Minister, until I joined the Party of Positive Slovenia, was no party, unlike you, when you were once a comrade soldier Vinko Gorenak, a member of the Union of Communists, your colleague often says, the leftmost gerontological left, but you have experienced a turn to the right and you have landed where you are today, but I do not see it. You guys have been having problems with this all the time. You are the one who has problems with this, but then start with yourself – from left to right. At least my colleagues, who were previously in another party, were left on the left, a respected minister. Let me conclude with a metaphor that shows how facts can be put into question. A few centuries ago, there was no doubt that the earth was flat. Even though the facts haven't changed, today we believe it's round. Today, being round, we call it fact and we don't assume it. And with these unchanged facts, the minister has a problem. The minister ignored the facts, and the truth fell out of his hands. An internal minister who has a problem with the truth must withdraw. It's only a matter of self-respect if he leaves alone. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with today's push on the button you will decide between loyalty to the coalition agreement on the one hand and loyalty to stop on the other. What's more important? There's no doubt. At least he's not on this side for us. But you will do what you do, and you will sell your stories about the rule of law to people again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The minister wanted a word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u166	Last performance and one before that, I'll tell you. If you think you're going to provoke me and I'm going to tell you what you want, I'm going to tell you that's not going to happen. I'm very calm and I'll be very calm to tell you. Let's go in one order. Legitimate legality, there used to be some talk about it, and there were some indications on the subject. You know, in the Nuremberg trials, they condemned some of the judges who were supposed to be judging by the laws, because some laws were in force in that Paradise — and they also defended themselves — but they were far from just and legitimate, so they were condemned. That's what someone used to say. Then, Mr. Chehovin, I will avoid insults, but this is your manner, which should speak of yourself, I do not intend to offend you. When I was talking about left and right demonstrators, I was talking about the fact that for a policeman it doesn't matter if a cube comes from the left or the right, everyone can be deadly. That's what you're fucking with. You'll probably never fuck around again if, God forbid, something bad happened. You'll probably stop fucking around at least then. In any case, this is the case for a police officer, and in any case, we will investigate and continue to prosecute prosecutors and judges, if necessary, in the interest of the people whose lives we owe to protect. You insulted the professors of graphology and said it was some sort of delegated engineering or something. The experts on graphology confirmed Mrs Župevče's signature, purely independent, if someone ordered them anything, as you suggest, they might have found something else, but they didn't. Then forward, if we look at things, this is the situation. Mrs. Bratuškova, police signature checks are inadmissible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u167	Just a moment, we'll interrupt the meeting in ten minutes to get the security guys to remove the gentleman on the balcony. We're adjourning the session in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u168	I suggest that the ladies be removed, and then they will continue. It's been ten minutes. Thank you very much. We'll continue the session. We continue to give the floor to the Minister who has been interrupted in his implementation. Then he will have the word, Mr Frangež. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I'll continue where I ended up. Mrs Bratušek says that verification of signatures is unacceptable. Ah, come on! And you will soon say that it is not permissible for you to investigate crimes. That's probably the next thing. And he's asking how it is with the anonymouss. At that time, I was prepared for part of the answer, especially with regard to anonymities. As far as the verification of signatures is concerned, the Criminal Procedure Act makes no difference in the investigation of criminal offences, and the collection of notices from persons who know anything about a particular alleged crime, even though they are Members. I don't know why then it would be an issue for a Member to ask, of course, any question. This is also the basis of the rule of law. No one can order the police or order them to protect the evidence. It's purely a matter of forensic techniques, tactics and methods and nothing else. About the anonymous ones, that's all. Anonymous cops get it every day. We're checking only those who give rise to suspicion of a crime. It's not our choice, it's our duty. We need to check the actions somewhere, at least after the 148th Article of the CAP. The anonymity check times depend on each case individually. The specificity of the indications, the possibilities of verifiability and everything else, so we cannot say that we will deal with something in order. Then they would also investigate the theft of chickens and the murder in order. But we'll probably pay more attention to the murder. So much for anonymouss. I don't know how many times to say it, Mrs. Bratusek has left the hall again. Oh, you're here. During my defense, I explained very clearly the dates, hours, and numbers and everything else. And I don't know how to do it again. I've got enough time. I can explain it to you by tomorrow morning until my time runs out, so I'm going to repeat one part of the answer. Higher and lower numbers, I've already explained to you, this is the third time I've said the same thing. The signatures, the documents came to the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs. Bratusek, you want to listen to me so I don't repeat it. Thank you very much. They came by e-mail to the Ministry, to Stefano's 2. They were there for the first time and in Beethoven for the second time when two packages arrived. These two packages came at the same time, and they were assigned two numbers. I told you that because of an hour's delay, the system doesn't detect it. The employee, however, who set the order, took it by chance because she had two initiatives to verify. And nothing else. And I don't have to explain it again because I explained it the second time. Why Mrs. Brezigarev signed it, I said because I wasn't there. Because I wasn't there. However, the second initiative, the bank, began to check on Thursday, 25th, and ended on Friday, 26th, and also the third time I repeat, exclusively for you: Friday at the end of the working time, the printing screen was completed, a basic check carried out by 28 employees. But it wasn't controlled. Since it was the end of working time, this was done on Monday. When this check was completed, I signed the letter and from me he went to the National Assembly, where he arrived the following day at 14.26. I've told you everything, once again, especially for you. The opposition MPs cannot put Katarina Kresal or the interior minister on trial. I don't know how you understand the rule of law so opposition Members can send a minister to court. Maybe I'll get some kind of call with your signature, but this one won't be legal. I cannot and could not send Mrs Kresalov to court in the past. The suspicions of crimes around the NPU have not yet been overstated. I don't know what's going to happen in the future, so you won't say that I've predicted anything, that there won't be any more obvious. But it's a good thing you reminded me of that. You know, insults about fellow militiamen and so on. I've told you X times before, and I'll tell you again. I have no problem with the time before 1990. At that time, fellow militiamen, to whom I belonged, most of the party members — including me — respected legitimacy, and therefore did not drive out all those demonstrators who could be driven out. They were led by Mr Steeli and the situation is relatively clear, it is said, we acted legitimately in the interest of the Slovenian people, who wanted independence at the time. I got out of this party alone because I knew what time it was, and I had no problem with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u170	Mr. Jakich, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u171	If you're reading Youth, you're reading nonsense. You can ask me when I got out, and I'll tell you. That's the thing. But you didn't step out today, and you even approached one of them, who you were when you were a young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Franzege. Just a moment, please, Mr. Jakich. You too, Mrs. Bratusek, will have your word. Mr Frangež came forward earlier. Mr. Frangež, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u173	I have a procedural proposal, Madam Vice-President, to allow me, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a replica as requested.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u174	We'll clear it up. First, the replica Mr. Frangež wants. Since the Minister spoke before him, the previous debater by the Members was mag. Alenka Bratusek. Do you have a replica of Mrs. Bratusek's performance? No, no, no. Just a minute, I'll explain. Given that you've already said that you want a replica of one of the previous debaters. It is true that Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure does not say exactly when a replica can be divided, but Parliamentary practice so far shows that you can have a replica of the previous debater, otherwise, believe me, in this national assembly to a major mess. Since the Rules of Procedure allow me an explanation during the meeting of the National Assembly alone, I will explain Article 70 so that I will not allow you a replica this time. I'd like you to take this step-by-step.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u175	Dear Mrs. Tomc! I requested a replica about 20 minutes ago. She referred to a discussion by her colleague Pisk. You told me at the time that I did not react as soon as Mr Pišek had finished his debate, but I did so during the discussion by my colleague Bratušek. That's when I called you. Show me a rule in the rules of procedure that allows you to do so, such an interpretation. Allow me to avoid the mess in this National Assembly to read Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which does not allow much room for manoeuvre for such and other interpretations, Madam Vice-President. "Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, a replica, if this debate relates to his debate," the first condition referred to, "if he thinks that his discussion was misunderstood or misinterpreted", the second condition was misinterpreted. "The President will give him the word as soon as he requests it," the third fact, I demanded, came to the table of the President and requested this replica. "The replica shall be limited to only the necessary explanation and shall not last more than 3 minutes. The replica is not allowed unless the President considers that the references in the replica were incorrect." Madam Vice-President, I ask you kindly, in accordance with your competence to interpret this Rules of Procedure, to interpret the Rules of Procedure as it is written. I demand a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u176	Mr. Frangež, I'll give you the opportunity to have a replica, I think it's a precedent in this national council. On my part, however, there will also be a question addressed to the Commission or to the College of the National Assembly to discuss such cases. This time, please, you have a word or a replica for the implementation of Mr Pisk and please explain now what you have been misinterpreted about.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u177	I wasn't misunderstood, I was misinterpreted. Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for your accuracy, I am also looking forward to the response of the responsible committee of the National Assembly. Mr Pišek referred to my debate and interpreted that I was talking about children sitting in prison, but he called them hooligans himself. These kids, pardon me, these people who are detained because of the danger of repetitive behavior are some kids. And I used the term "child" because just before my discussion I read one of the confessions of the mother of one of these children about how these people are treated. The minister was talking about disruptors and thugs. He also said that when he was still a fellow militiaman, the police or the militia at the time did not send out protestors by all means at the time of the transition. Mr. Minister, why did the police launch a protest at the Maribor protests by all means? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u178	Mr. Frangež, now I am asking you for correctness and you are interpreting the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u179	And I'm going back to the kids, including that little girl who walked across the Maribor Center with her dad and grabbed my dad's hand and said, "Daddy, my eyes are burning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u180	I'm sorry, Mr. Frangež, but now you've expanded yours a little bit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u181	Therefore, I claim that there has been an excessive use [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u182	the jurisdiction of the replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u183	the police force, which is worth talking about in this Parliament even on the occasion of this interpolation. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u184	Mr. Frangež, you have abused twice the opportunity I gave you and the correctness. I hope you're aware of that. I think Mr Jerovšek was before you, mag. Cousin. Mr. Jerovšek, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u186	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u187	A replica of a colleague of Bratušek who turned to me to think of her as a gerontological left. I think you're misinterpreting me. But it is true that right after you said it, your picture of 'Gotof' came to my table, and I think it's also unfair to you. I didn't think of you as a gerontological left. But I said, if you want to be precise, it's yours. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, not at all. That your client was set up by the Slovenian Gerontocracy on that procession on the magistrate. That's a fact. And even then I didn't accidentally say they were done, but that they were still too much alive, maybe, so they set up a client who somehow tried to seduce Slovenian voters. But it is true that at that time, Mr Židan said that the uncles in the background should go to the elections, so that everything would be clear. And at the same time, Mr Lukšič defined this group and also your client as an old left. But I understood Mr Lukšič that this is like – you survive ideas and therefore thoughts. And maybe he wasn't wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Bratusek, would you like a replica? Can you just explain to whose execution first?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u189	To the minister's office.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u191	Otherwise, according to current practice, you could probably choose whose, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u192	I guess so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u193	to the minister's office. [[...]] Minister, I really wasn't talking about "reich." It's just that maybe you're setting it up now. But I've already told you, your arrogance, your deception, your teasing and your insults have no limits. And I'm glad I'll never reach your ankle in that. I'm glad. What the colleague said — he. I just said that you were a member of this gerontological left. That's all. Nothing else. Because that's what a colleague understands. And I'm not talking about it bad and bad. And your colleagues have many times. And once again, yes, the well-respected coalition, you will take responsibility today to confirm that the Minister is not objectively responsible for what has happened. If it's not a minister, there can only be another one. And just one more thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u194	Mrs. Bratusek, you have a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u195	Yeah, replica. After all, I was mentioned five times by a respected minister, and he totally misunderstood me in many ways. But respectable coalition, I hope that you also received an email with a slogan that now circulates on the Internet, but it does sound like that, but I don't think it has anything to do with that before: The Coalition is saving Private Vinko Gorenak today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We don't know what it really was. Mag. A cousin, a replica or advice to a coalition or something like that. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please, you're next. Then Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u197	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members, Members, both Ministers, High Representatives of the Government, good afternoon! I have to say, I've been thinking all this time whether to speak or not. Even in the morning and last night, I had this question for myself. Are we doing anything useful for this country today, or will the situation in the country be worse after this meeting, which could be nearly eighteen hours long? I've decided not to use some big words myself. I will try to finish my speech in such a way that I will not insult anyone, nor the Minister present, nor the Members and Members, nor the Coalition, nor the opposition. But what I want to say is this. I can't judge whether the minister is subjectively guilty. I don't have a developed spy wire, I don't have any military or police or any other school. I don't know that. Subjective guilt I don't know. However, the fact, honourable Members, is that there were two laws in the procedure where the opinion of the coalition and the opinion of the opposition are distinctly different. We claim in these laws that these are the laws where you have a hidden agenda. The final effect will be extremely harmful for Slovenia and useful for you. You're saying something else. And the fact is, in both laws, it was obviously intended to give rise to a referendum, for citizens and citizens of this country to tell themselves whether they agree to such laws or not. And the fact is that there have been two or more extremely unusual, highly unusual or very, very unusual cases in both referendum requirements. In the first law, one of the opposition groups sent was given tremendous attention by Slovenian police, criminals and I do not know what else. When we spoke to our fellow Members elsewhere in European countries, it is likely that each of you and of us has made this attention in a way that is extremely unusual for modern European democracy. And that's a very, very mild word. In the second request for a referendum submitted by the trade union, however, the obvious number of signatures, which was entirely appropriate, was imposed in such a way that only the last day was found at the competent ministry, and in the meantime something was happening in the National Assembly that the obvious number of signatures was not sufficient. Now we know that there have been significant and very, very unusual matters that have been reduced from hour to hour. Who is subjectively responsible, whether it is right that responsibility is sought from courier to cleaner and then upwards through the professional services of one institution or another institution, I cannot answer that. Investigations will take place, they will probably even give some result, with little luck they will not wear off. But the fact is, something has happened, ladies and gentlemen, which is terrible. What's terrible? In a parliamentary democracy based on free elections, which must be fair, all together is based on the fact that what people decide is then properly counted, that the leaves are not lost and that the numbers are what people decide in elections. Immediately thereafter, almost on the same plane under the Slovenian Constitution, there is the right to referendums. And the fact is that because of unknown circumstances, because subjective responsibility is not known at this time, this right has been almost denied to those who have the right to it. From here on, the question is whether there is an objective responsibility. Of course, there is an objective responsibility. The question we must ask ourselves, and we probably all ask ourselves, is as follows. Is this objective responsibility located only here in the sitting minister or is it shared with any other president of the National Assembly who is not sitting here at this time? I can't answer that question right now. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we are again deciding here today on something that our citizens and citizens are not aware of and rightly so. And that is that the scoundrels in this country are never sanctioned. It would be ideal for us to start this session today in a way that Mr Minister would be given the opportunity to speak, and he would say, "I am not individually responsible, but an objective one must take responsibility." And in any case, in my opinion, the information so far known is the closest to this objective responsibility, Mr. Minister. Perhaps, Mr. Secretary, you will point to someone else with your finger and I will be happy to listen to you. However, when it is almost taken away from those who are entitled, the possibility of something given by the Constitution to come over this scourge without objective responsibility, and this, honourable Members and Members, is not possible. That didn't happen this morning. Today we have been listening to an angry debate all day, not for some time, but between the minister and the opposition, between the coalition and the opposition, and for a moment, which is particularly interesting, between the coalition and the coalition, but there is no benefit and there will be no benefit. The amount of tension, nervousness and mistrust of citizens and citizens in this country will only increase. So I, the distinguished minister, actually wish that without in fact there is a strong debate going on here, to continue to benefit our country, also in favour of what is insufficient in Slovenia, this is the self-cleaning skills of Slovenian politics, take the only possible step, tell us that you are resigning, and believe me, you will get almost some kind of badge of Slovenian national hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Zanoskar, behind him is Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If I took this seriously what I got here during the session, namely the call of the Slovenian universal uprising of the nation, an invitation for 21 December 2012 at 3 p.m., if this incident had happened, then I would say that the interpretation is inappropriate and pointless, because this initiative, which probably sends me an invitation to this meeting by mistake, has in mind the change of the whole government and the entire political will of our country. It is not only Gorenak, it is not just the government, we are probably all, colleagues and colleagues, also to include in what this civil initiative with the general Slovenian uprising wants to do. I will not touch on all the debates that have been and amalgamated with some of the debaters that you start and somehow point your finger at Positive Slovenia, czech, what is the need for interpretation. I will not touch on all these debates that have been offensive and inappropriate. I would simply like to see that the traceability of all documents coming from trade unions to the National Assembly and forward to the Ministry of the Interior is clear. And it is quite clear that the National Assembly and the services of the National Assembly have accepted these documents and recorded them. Actually, it's a good thing they've been copied. However, the traceability of all these documents coming forward to the Ministry of the Interior is somehow lost. And there comes this question of what happened to them. Today we do not know where the signatures are, even though they have disappeared at the Ministry of the Interior. If it's a ministry that defends and protects our rights, then I'd say it's probably qualified, it has capable experts to find those signatures that got lost there. But in the end, the smoke is flowing from Stefan's. And where there's smoke, there's a minister. We haven't been able to blame him today, but we've been able to give him the moral and responsibility he has as the minister in charge of this department. For him and for all of us, it would be better if we didn't sit here. This would be if this objective responsibility were recognised by the Minister himself and he had resigned or offered to resign. Actually, I don't blame Minister Vinko Gorenak that much. This could also be done by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would suggest to him and tell him to enter because of moral or objective responsibility. Look, I remember my last term. At that time, the President of the Government proposed to the Minister for Space and Environment that he resign because of garbage cans. Is the comparison possible here? It is not possible because this is a scandal, which is of an absolutely large scale. A scandal that will by no means be covered or pushed under the carpet. A scandal that goes to anals of Slovenian democracy and democratic state. And we should be aware of that, though, once again, we do not blame him, but he is objectively responsible for what happened. Today it is a solid coalition and this coalition will not vote or confirm the interpretation we are proposing. What have we done with this? Don't you feel the atmosphere? Don't you feel the rising temperature outside? Big people are capable of retreat. This is also an institute that is legal and legitimate. Many people are also able to say that when it is critical that they leave the situation. You don't have to wait for those people who have someone, including objective responsibility, to take the street. Just like it was in Maribor, for example. We don't want that. But when a nation takes matters into its own hands when a nation takes the rule of law and legal order, then it is unpredictable. There's a lot that could happen. And today you will either confirm or not confirm this interpolation. What's going to happen to the people? The temperature's going to increase. For 21. I have an invitation and probably a lot of people have an invitation to the universal uprising of the Slovenian nation. You know, we're playing, we're playing the right game, and we should be smart. Look, at the end of the day, the resignation of a minister is not a tragedy, because in the end it is not his fault, at least the guilt is not proven, but the moral, ethical, upright attitude of a person in favour of the Slovenian state, in favour of a certain reputation of the national assembly or government, would be placed and needed. And if that were the case, we wouldn't be sitting here for probably ten or eleven o'clock today and discussing it. This way we will sit and vote, and there will be no vote of no confidence after the vote. And things are going to get complicated. We can expect another incident, and if they're just gonna make the paperwork fly, O.K., we're gonna make it. But I'm afraid these incidents will be a little more difficult, a little more dangerous, and probably all of us sitting here will be at risk. A little bit more sense is needed to look at this political situation and also into this topic, which, lastly, scandalously creates the integrity of a democracy, the democratic order of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, followed by Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good evening to all Members and Members of Parliament! Today, many such and different words have been uttered in this hall. There were also some of them that went up to, say, our house, the floor. These words were spoken both on the one hand and on the other. But I was stabbed by one word or, I'll say it now, four words that have been spoken and a fellow soldier, Mr. Minister. No matter how anyone understands, I respect that someone comes from a militiaman to a doctor of science and also to a minister. And I think that those values would also show respect and appreciation. I don't mind if someone thinks ideologically one way or another. It's just a matter of every individual, but I don't think you're here inside the hall. What happened with the signatures, I'm perfectly honest with you, that's "sacrifice." Someone was talking about how they were such and different machinations. It's hard to talk about whether they were machinations or not machinations, I'd say there's been more unprofessionality here, some old habits that we've been tracking within the National Assembly and within the Ministry. Twenty years of practice. All of this casts a terrible bad light on the National Assembly, on the Ministry of the Interior, on the coalition, on the opposition, on honourable Members and members of the opposition. What happened a little while ago must have been a good message. Some of us in the hall or you hoped that these things that have been happening recently in Slovenia would fly to one or another option. No, Your Honor, they're flying at us all together because someone in the past has made terrible mistakes because things like this have happened, and it's no wonder that people are simply telling us that we're frauds, that we're thieves, that we're thieves, and so on. These are words that may not even be spoken in this House, but those words are heard every day where people gather because people think so. You know, all these investigations that have taken place in connection with signatures have somehow shown that no one qualified can say that there has been a mistake here or there. But mistakes have been made. The minister also admitted the matter. The errors took place at the time the signatures came to the National Assembly and until the end of the process, which was also carried out in both the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior. But who did? Who's been in contact with these documents? Do we know who these people are? You know, you start to think that someone can do this on purpose. But here we cannot rule out either one or the other or any political beliefs or other political beliefs. Our Group of Members and I will not support this interpolation either. Not that I like or dislike Minister Gorenak, because I do not appreciate that Minister Gorenak did not take these documents from the drawer and they are not due to the fact that there is no referendum to take them away and possibly remove them. He knew well that the originals were preserved in the National Assembly and that matters could easily be compared. These signatures, which were lost, as I said, are of no use to us. I think we have to do everything we can to stop this from happening in the future. This scenario, which was created, is a scenario based on a certain pattern, without any safety measures. There were no security measures. If they were security measures, then that would never happen to us. But he didn't, thank God, leave any major consequences. The referendum may take place unless the Constitutional Court decides otherwise. Let us wait a few days before we are all informed of this together. I would like to end with the desire that we may continue to speak a little more patiently to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, behind her is Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. We started today by accusing the interpellationers of mixing with signatures, and at the same time there is nothing to prevent the applicants from mixing with their President's land, which is rather strange, but it is. What happened was that the photocopies were lost, I stress, photocopies of signatures, because the original signatures were in the vault or in the treasury of the National Assembly, should not have happened, and there was no one proud, not the National Assembly, nor the Ministry of the Interior, which was doing things on the move. But the day it all started or when it was found out what had happened, colleagues from Positive Slovenia shouted at us that we had hidden and stolen signatures, no matter how much we claimed to you that we had not seen the signatures, neither took them, nor had they ever been in our hands. The charges of theft and so on – no control has shown this. As I said, the signatures are original here, and there's no logic that someone at the Ministry of the Interior would hide the photocopies, thinking that they wouldn't find them because they were originals somewhere else. You probably make sure the originals disappear if that's what you're after, not copies. In today's Work, we can read that signatures are highly likely to have disappeared at the Ministry of the Interior. This is not the case from those documents which we received, namely from any document of the services which monitored or reviewed the procedure, but from the fact that there have been significant errors in the State Assembly in the reception and further handling of these documents and also at the Ministry of the Interior. At some point, the Secretary-General said that they had reviewed the procedures so far and found that this had been the case for 15 years. That's not true. In a few referendum initiatives, the initiator knew how many signatures he had brought, and he also requested a record of how many signatures he had given, precisely in order to avoid such matters. This time even the unions themselves didn't know how many signatures they gave out. The accompanying letter contained over 2 thousand 500, which could be 2 thousand 501 or 2 thousand 400. Since no one counted them, we cannot say with certainty how many came. In the initial interim report of the Anti-Corruption Commission, in relation to the findings, it was initially stated that when receiving and recording the initiative from the Trade Union, it was 10 years ago. 10. Disobedience and infringements for the staff of the National Assembly of Compulsory Provisions, Instructions on the Office of the National Assembly. The directive unequivocally provides that all civil servants of the National Assembly shall carry out the tasks of managing documentary material in such a way as to enable the work to be reviewed later, to verify its correctness, timing and quality of implementation, to demonstrate the facts and to maintain records for science and culture or for the legal security of legal and natural persons. It follows from the same report that, on receipt or takeover from the union initiator, all should be counted and recorded in such a way that, later, due to the legal security of legal and natural persons exercising the right of a referendum initiative, it is possible to verify or prove important facts in the present case, for example, the number of lists of signatures received and the personal data of the signatories to the initiative. The number of annexes should also be recorded following the explicit provision of Article 23 of the Office Business Guidelines in DZ. And so on. This is indeed an interim report from the anti-corruption commission, which has been final since they probably requested a response report from the National Assembly, slightly nicer. However, in conclusion, the Anti-Corruption Commission concludes: "For this reason, both the National Assembly and the MNZ could not and cannot demonstrate with certainty or conviction that the loss or removal of 36 letters with signatures and personal details of 307 electors and voters, supporters of the referendum initiative, did not occur in the National Assembly or the Ministry of Internal Affairs." The information officer also notes: "Because of the lack of traceability of the processing of personal data both on the side of the National Assembly and on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, it was not possible to determine in the procedure which made a mistake in order to disappear 36 photocopiers with the personal data of the signatories of the initiative." Both or all of them point out: "In both bodies, it has been found that not sufficient care has been taken to deal with confidential personal data documentation and systemic deficiencies which did not provide traceability in the transmission of these personal documents." I have to say, I'm having trouble working at the National Assembly first. I also have one bad experience when I had to prove what happened to some document that appeared in public. I was accused by an information officer that this was a copy of me that came out of the public eye. At the same time, the Secretary-General and the Information Officer had no difficulty in trusting all the services that had handled this document before I received it and claiming that they had done everything as they should, while other members of the Commission of Inquiry had the same document as me. Although they did not find that this copy was exactly the same as mine, they found that I did not lock the office, that I did not change the code on the safe and that I did not see to it that we could follow where this document went. From my office nowhere and from the safe that I have in my office. Nevertheless, I had to pay a fine — because at the time the services of the National Assembly did not, in my opinion, do what was necessary. I believe the Minister on the basis of what he said. He also said how things were going on time, day after day, and so on. At least what it is, we should first look for guilt probably in the National Assembly. But if we're not looking for her, I'm sure we can't do it at the Ministry of the Interior, so I'm not going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, behind him Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u205	Vice President, thank you very much. First of all, I would ask if Minister Gorenak could come, because I cannot speak directly to the chair, because the interpretation is against the minister and his actions. So I'd like to ask if the minister took a break so we can take a five-minute break to continue when the minister gets back.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u206	Look, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, the minister is with us almost all the time, but he is also human and probably takes five minutes to rest. I'm sure he'll be back. I suggest you proceed, because this is why we will not stop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u207	Well, then, if the Secretary-General listens to us or eavesdrops on these microphones, that's what I'll say. Dear Minister Gorenak, you and your actions are a great disgrace to the Slovenian police and a great disgrace to Slovenian politics. The fact that you have not understood what an objective responsibility is already says much about you. When there's a place of signatures that carry the will of the people, the minister doesn't bend over and stay where he is. What is the message of Slovenian policy to the people and what is the message of the people to Slovenian politics? What is happening to us, dear Minister, you should understand first and foremost as Minister of the Interior. You're actually acting like a minister, just like you did when you were a Member. Your rhetoric is completely wrong. You give clear signals from day to day with your appearances so that you do not treat all citizens and citizens equally. However, we should understand that this is wrong; it is not right for all citizens and citizens. Today, some Members and Members of Parliament are persistently mixing subjective and objective responsibility, and you are determined to show that there is no evidence, no guilt and so on. For political and objective responsibility, we do not need any evidence. The fact is, what happened was what happened, what you all labeled as a disgrace, but something that should not have happened in a normal, legal and democratic society such as Slovenia did. It happened out there at the Ministry of the Interior. As far as we know all the chronology and progress of this event, we know that you received more letters from the National Assembly than you returned them. Therefore, now the return of the ball back to the National Assembly and the accusation now of one another, even though there would have been a mistake in the National Assembly, it still does not excuse you to repeat it there and say so, because it did happen there. It is said, as John Janša often does, "they, this has happened in the past, the government, the previous government, this government." So if someone's been making mistakes in the past, if someone's been stealing in the past, we're going to apologize for what they did, for what they did and for what they did today. I'm talking about stealing signatures. This happened, and we can't stay cold and watch as if nothing happened and no one will answer for it. The message of Slovenian policy today is such that we stress and confirm that no one in this country is responsible for anything, neither objectively nor subjectively. Rare are those who responded and who will answer. Yesterday in Mrs Maša Kociper's reply, Minister Gorenak answered and compared this theft of signatures, the disappearance of signatures with some stolen chickens and police when it comes to someone referred to in point A at point B and I do not know what thighs and so on. Please, we can only present such cases, but not big thefts. Dear Minister, I think that you, by your actions and by your public appearance, have matured for interpretation and all those respected colleagues and colleagues who are going to defend the Minister by doing what he has done should also be intertwined. Why we are not able to condemn objective responsibility, but you take on one dignity to show citizens and citizens that what has happened is not right. And we have to fight it. No, no, no. You're defending and approving today, looking for the subjectively responsible one that's just about to come. If he comes, if he comes. And what Mr Jurša mentioned earlier was that he was stabbed by one word, two words, and then he wrote another fourth word. For twenty years now, the Slovenian people will be your policy of moving and disemboweling the social and legal state and this injustice and unequal treatment of citizens and citizens. Some are on strike right now, some are never. And that hurts. It hurts to have some immediately taken and punished, especially those whom the minister likes to use when he drops to the level of the cock and the police. That's why I said, Mr. Minister, that you are a great disgrace to the Slovenian police. Slovenian police deserve a minister like they do, not a minister, who you know when I'm watching you and when I'm listening to you, I find something very important that there are people with back pain and there are people with no spine. [[...]] Mr Minister, you're not in that first group, you don't feel the pain in your spine as we do and feel the citizens and citizens, and I don't want to be offensive, not at all. With your attitude, with your performance in public, you've shown yourself. And that's wrong in this country. You present the Commission's report on anti-corruption as if nothing has been found, all the other reports that have been given to you clearly indicate that you have been neglectful, that you have not followed up, that you have made these and these mistakes. The Minister is objectively responsible for his subordinates as well. Some in this country, some former ministers and today also prominent politicians, I can say quite reputable, because today no politicians have any reputation, have offered their resignations for minor errors and have resigned. What do you say, Mr. Secretary? By doing so, you make a policy message that this is not right, what is going on, that we will literally fight politicians against all these inconsequential acts that are actually generated by politics and even produced. And today's insistence on this, colleagues and colleagues, to justify what has happened to you to stand up for yourself, in the objective protection of Mr Gorenak, and if we do not show today and agree on this right, which Mr Minister himself has not recognized, we will all be subject to the deadline of justice, but the human time of justice, you will soon see. You know what a big mistake is in Slovenia and what is the great happiness of all politicians in the past and today? That fatal political errors have one disease. And this disease is called sclerosis. In the past, people have forgotten all these political mistakes, but I think that's history. After two decades, people have become fed up with such sick policies. Politics that degrades this Slovenia and does not build Slovenia. Politics that reduce patriotism. Policies that prevent real problems and problems, but create problems. This raises the question of whether Slovenia is even a rule of law. We are sending this question, this is the message of our wrong policy. Unfortunately, I too have become part of this system, this state policy for one year in this National Assembly, and I am not satisfied that it is as it is. I'm very disappointed. Disappointed with Slovenian politics, disappointed that no one accepts responsibility. I have a feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that it is easy to make different decisions and bad measures for this country, as well as illegal solutions in this Chamber of Democracy, just so that certain presidents of the political parties who are in the coalition will keep their chairs. That's right. And you say, Mr. Secretary, that we put you on the cross, that's what you said. You are constantly putting on the cross the rule of law, the state of Slovenia and all Slovenes and Slovenes, all citizens and citizens, with your conduct. Can't you see what's going on and what's going to happen? Your rhetorical forecasts of what will happen, these events from Maribor, what will be left in Ljubljana and what will be left in Cyprus. Those were your predictions. You, as minister, have so proclaimed, intimidated people about what will happen there and there. The real police or the minister doesn't tell you what's going to happen, but he does. If it's a legal state, you can't just talk out loud, it's gonna happen somewhere. In this country, whatever happens comes before the police. This is the practice of this Slovenian country, distinguished Minister. That's why we should all think about what we're doing together. And saying that it's a 15-year practice to bring documents to you and it's easy for you, it happened. In Slovenia there is once again one practice that even if there is an accident anywhere, after 20, 30 years no one moves when they are victims, then we wake up and then we react. And now after 15 years it happened, thank God it didn't happen in the past, the place of human will, the people's signatures. In fact, someone in politics objected, deliberately or accidentally, to prevent the exercise of the constitutional right of human will after the referendum. I know that doesn't suit you, but the referendum is only a result of the wrong actions of this government. The referendums aren't like that. We don't want them either. The referendums take place when we cannot prevent what you really want to legitimize and implement, a culture of dialogue, a lack of good will, a lack of will and a desire to talk and a desire to make better decisions. The rush brings us only bad decisions and even greater divisions between citizens and citizens, a greater division in Slovenian politics. Dear Minister, you still have time to give up with all the dignity to say it's not right what happened, it's a big mistake. And we'll all be grateful. Mr Tanko, the leader of the parliamentary group, also referred to this as a great scandal. And if this is indeed a scandal that has taken place at the Ministry of the Interior, then, the distinguished Minister, stand down and you will do to the Slovenian people, to yourself and to us all a great deal. That's all you need to have more courage, more power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has spoken to you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Of course you were insulting, who knew you were floorless. And I won't, because your actions should be judged by your constituents and not by me. Look, the equality of all citizens is certainly the equality of all citizens, Mr Misic, I just don't know why you're talking about this. On the actions of the services I run, the services for which I am in charge, which belong to this department, these are the police, the prosecution and some other services, the prosecution, on condition that this is a self-serving service, will, as long as I am ensuring equality of citizens before the law. So far it has not been, and some have been untouchable. This interpolation is also the reason why some become touchy because they were previously untouchable. And that's what the street wants. It wants the rule of law for everyone. And that's right. It happened to you. Did you read the papers? I don't think so. Three final reports say they didn't find out where it happened, and you discovered it happened to me. Maybe you can sign up for some job that's investigating this, and they'll be happy to see you. I don't understand why you say that. I'll drop the insults because it's not worth talking about. Anti-corruption commission. Read the report on pages 7 and 8, and you will find that the guilt of the anti-corruption commission has been distributed between the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior. And you only see one eye, the one that carries it to me. I never said what would happen after Maribor, I was talking about what was in Maribor, and I was talking about what was in Ljubljana. Other cities, I don't think I even mentioned it. Of course, you heard Koper because you want to hear it, and I didn't predict anything. And I don't want the demonstrations to continue. But if they do, we will act against those who violate the law, who commit offences or who are suspected of crimes. All other citizens can therefore be safe. Only those who break down and those who throw the dice keep them in danger. I just got a text. I'm going to read it for a basic reason because the person who sent it allows me to. Also by saying my name and last name. There are a lot of texts, of course, but here I have permission, sent by Mr Silven Majhenič. He was sitting back there in his previous term. He says, "Hello, Mr. Secretary! It's right that you've taken up police duties, including my son. He also exposes his own health to the people who are sitting in the National Assembly and without a shred of responsibility these young boys are criticising, and in particular to be ashamed of Mr. Frangež." Because I'm right here with Mr. Frange, and the next. He's been reading the use of tear gas against the baby. First thing you have to say, the tear gas doesn't go through the curves, but it goes straight. Not a choice between left and right, not a choice between older and younger, but unfortunately a gas that spreads like gas through the air. Police used this tool in Maribor after half an hour of gambling in the head of police officers. At that time, she gave five warnings that it was necessary to withdraw. And they said they'd use coercive means. Of course, all those who were nearby were given this tear gas. Even cops if they were unprotected. And if a tear gas brought to some end, to some street that some kid got it, that's possible. But it doesn't have to be used for this kind of performance. A few more answers that I think I have to give from before, because you asked me for them. I believe that Mr Frangež's first statement was on the issue of the use of police powers. It must be made clear that the Constitution already provides for peaceful assembly. A peaceful gathering is never problematic, and the police must ensure this in accordance with the Police Act and in accordance with the Public Assembly Act. It's a non-problem. If an organizer shows up, it's so much easier because we know who the organizer is, we know who our interlocutor is, and we know how to help him ensure public order and peace and the security of people and property. It should also be said that the specificity of the use of coercive resources, in particular the gas coercive resources, which were used for the first time in the crowd. And I explained the case a little earlier. You can't choose who the gas reaches and who it won't reach. Everyone has to get rid of it. Of course, we call on them to do so, or they risk these consequences themselves. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, 89 police officers have been injured. 89 police officers were in danger of life. Not just me as secretary, but you too are obliged to think about it. You too are obliged — all to do what is necessary to separate between those who are calm and those who are guilty of crimes and crimes. Comrade Zerjav said, "Throw a cube in the cop's head, it's an attempted murder." I don't know if any of you have any idea what that looks like. Come and see, we'll give you a helmet and we'll give it a try. And you'll see what that looks like. And then you're talking about overstepping police authority. That's incorrect. That's irresponsible of the police. Mr Head of the Parliamentary Group spoke about listening to him and so on, that someone abused the police and so on and so on. If you think anything is wrong, if you think a crime has been committed, if you think a crime has been committed, if you think someone is listening to you, file a criminal report. No problem. As a Member, we will pay special attention to you and protect you because there is no reason not to. Mrs Vonta spoke about the fact that she doesn't care where, in her opinion, the signatures were lost. She doesn't care if it's here or there. Okay. That is also true of all the reports that are now final. But you wrote and signed under an interpolation that only shows up for me. And that's a pretty big problem. That's it right now. However, I will continue to respond if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Minister. Only that Mr Frangež will not come back in half an hour with a wish for a replica, because he is not currently in the hall. But he's probably got a replica. I think there were two mentioned, Gaspar Gaspar Misich and Tamara Vont. Mr Möderndorfer, you're probably the proposer after that. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Minister, that will not be said and that the Slovenian public will not be misled. Here you mentioned that I should read the 7th or 8th page of the Commission's report on anti-corruption. The fact is that you, as a 19-page minister, have chosen one page where the actual ill-light of a particular case is being fought at the National Assembly. However, it clearly states here: "The Commission notes that the physical handling or protection of the entire dossier was incorrect at the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the irregularities in the recording, and contrary to the rules to this extent, that it is possible to speak of a greater likelihood that the alienation or loss of the leaves occurred to that authority. However, this does not mean that this can also be claimed in a specific case. The Commission also assesses that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior acted as an institution contrary to the expected integrity of the notification of missing signatures to the National Assembly only before the expiry of the time limit." Minister, if this is not enough for you to resign from this function to assume objective responsibility, then I don't know what else you need. However, today you have such a milky rhetoric to the National Assembly that you do not offend anyone by accident, but it is due to the fear you feel towards Members and Members of the National Gazette, because you do not know how they will respond if you attack the President of the National Assembly and the National Assembly, because then he is responsible here if you are not of course. But the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption makes it clear that this is the Ministry of the Interior and it is not burdened so much by what has happened here. But neither here nor there is the purest. But the fact is, you're the head of the ministry where this unfortunate act took place. And today, because we are going to vote in the end, today you do not hope, as you said at the beginning, to point your finger at the National Assembly, but every time you mention the National Assembly and the possible guilt of the National Assembly, you apologized in advance that you do not want to offend anyone and so on. I only hope and believe that Members and Members, if not from the SDS from the majority of DeSUS, and above all all from the National Gazette, will act in a manner that will confirm the interpretation and thus act morally, accountable to all citizens and citizens in order to clear the dirty name of this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u212	Mr. Music, the replica was this, you could say on condition. Mrs. Vonta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you, just for a little while. Twelve hours is about and twelve hours is all I'd want. Our message is only one thing, and this message is: there is an institution of objective responsibility, but in this country no one respects it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u214	Mrs. Vonta, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u215	Yes, of course. And that's what the Minister was talking about, an objective responsibility. What about you people of God? What about you, Minister? I know that these twelve hours have gone by today, that there will be nothing left of it, and that there will be no hack, very politically speaking now, I am not so deep in these waters.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u216	No, Mrs. Vonta. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u217	In short, look, it's 12 hours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u218	You just tell me where you've been misunderstood, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u219	Yeah, I got it all wrong. Once again, not at what time, not who lost something, not where it got lost. Two people are responsible for this act. Two. The objectively responsible is Minister Gorenak and the second is the President of the National Assembly. And I should have said to them both that moment, "Thank you so much for your cooperation and goodbye. I'm guilty!" And you may be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u220	Well, if that was a replica, then we probably have some new standards in this National Assembly. Mr Möderndorfer has now made his statement as a proposaler and then as a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u221	Minister, I didn't understand you very well when you were talking about abuse and so on and so forth, and I don't even know what it was about. But I know exactly what I was saying. I was primarily talking about when one of the Members said that we had abused this institution and that they were essentially prisoners. That's what I'm talking about, that's all. But just so you know, Minister, as long as you're a minister, I have no one to report. If you know what I mean. Because I don't trust you. That's the problem! It's about as if the fox that ate my chicken would go to the fox and say, "Fox, somebody ate my chicken, can you find it for me?" I must tell you that you simply do not understand what objective responsibility is. Your main problem is that you're hiding behind the police department. When you like the police, you talk about how good the police are, how they actually did their job. You don't have to explain that to us. We all know that. The problem is that we are talking about the political role of the Minister of the Interior, whether he has done his homework. No, you failed your exam. This is all we are talking about, Minister, there is no other discussion – objective responsibility. This isn't a court of law, and we're not going to the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Look, you're the head of the ministry where this happened, five times I repeat, read the report, Mr Misic, you're obviously none. That Mrs Tamara Vont yells at me and yells at me to be ashamed of me, let me tell you that I will not answer you because I will not go down to the level that you are going down to. However, you, Mr Head of the Parliamentary Group, do not report crimes to the Minister. Crimes are reported to the police, usually territorially competent, where you are at home, or where you think a crime has occurred. Go over there and not to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mr Grimes, who has been waiting for a word for so long, but the motioner has returned. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I have plenty of time, because you know I can talk a lot. Mr. Grimes will wait. Look, it's not a problem that I'm making the application, the problem is that as long as you're the minister, trust in the institution will be shaken, because you keep telling the Slovenian public all the time that you know what's going to happen, you can direct everything, you can get familiar with everything, and you can predict where the investigations will happen. You've got it all figured out. For the National Assembly, you were immediately able to predict what would happen in the National Assembly. That's the problem. And you don't even want to hear it. And I'm going to keep repeating it until you finish your term of office – either with resignation or with regular work.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u226	Mr. Grimes, now you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u227	Yes, thank you, it is clear that I must leave Mr Möderndorfer's word, because the old saying says that the wiser will give up. This case has now been going on for 12 hours. I must say that, first of all, given that Mr Winston Churchill is long dead to me now, it is only in his name that I should thank some of the applicants for proving so vehemently how right he was when he once said in Parliament that they were the most open-ended empty closets. This interpretation would be justified if it were the first time someone had brought signatures to Parliament. They're not here, ladies and gentlemen. I brought them a couple of times because I picked them up with friends from SDS for different things. And you won't believe it. I asked for confirmation every time. And every time I got a certificate that said exactly how many leaves I brought. That is to say, if you are already looking for the primary shamparija, look for it with those who have brought these signatures to Parliament because they obviously did not require a certificate. And because they were so careless themselves, in some ways others took it upon themselves. Of course, this does not excuse anything, but it certainly explains. It does not, however, explain what is the essence of today's event, the fact that all the institutions that investigated this event have found that it is not really possible to attribute one thing to the responsibility that this is a whole series of mistakes and that this is a fact that will have to be taken into account in future action. That is why this is the most meaningless interpretation in the history of the Slovenian Parliament, according to the domestic saying, 12 hours takes a struggle to address the shadow. Why does this waste of time really need to be done? Look, this government, this parliament, this coalition, has managed to vote on pension reform, the unattainable Holy Grail of the Pahor government, has managed to take a whole range of measures to revive the Slovenian economy, the regulation of the banking system, what is currently the most critical for Slovenian entrepreneurship. Some of these things are unfortunately blocked by referendum initiatives, but I hope that the Constitutional Court will settle itself. And in order not to see that the next steps that Slovenia urgently needs are not to be taken, it is necessary to throw through window 12 and God knows how many hours for such debates, for which it has been concluded by formal institutions, that it is not possible to say now that this is the responsibility of the ministry, but that at least the question of what Parliament has done is what Parliament has done, and I am adding, according to my own experience in the same Parliament, the question of what has been done by the proposer, that he did not at the time ask for confirmation of what he has brought, how many signatures, how many lists, and how many of them would be counted together, as they have always been before me, and that all of these stories would never have been, and it would never have been a waste of time. Some of the debates had been extremely long before, and it was obvious that some were actually extending, only to spend as much time as possible. It is not surprising, therefore, that we come to the end of this kind of nonsense, but I would say quite irresponsible actions, such as the referendum block of the Budget Implementation Act, which, by the way, means that our country would give up all the European funds that are the only development funds we have right now and that RTV Slovenia – our national television remains without the legal basis to collect the subscription. This happened once before, and remember how many problems there were then, and it only took one month, because of Mrs Shirce's little overconfident self-esteem, which she did not pay back. How much earlier was the dispute over whether that RTV contribution or subscription for one euro or half a euro would be reduced? Now it would all go up in smoke because there would no longer be a legal basis for collecting, because someone went to block something that knows that the Constitutional Court will definitely stop because such a referendum is unacceptable because it would have permanent and irreparable consequences for Slovenia. But we do not come to all of this, we do not come to the point of taking measures to help Slovenian entrepreneurship, to revive the Slovenian economy, because it is necessary to discuss here who has counted and who has not counted some signatures and who has not made a record which, by the way, those who have brought these signatures have not at all requested it. Churchill's probably turning in his grave.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Möderndorfer, as the proposer, has a word for her at any time. He did this time, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much. This is really stupid tonight. We've been talking all the time, for 12 hours now, one of you've been defending, of course, the minister warned at the very beginning that arrows should be pointed at the National Assembly. We are talking about the Minister's interpretation, because we have also argued where we actually see the origin of the problem. Now I hear something new. No, not the National Assembly, not the Ministry, the initiators are guilty. It's their fault. That's the latest. In fact, the solution is that, in fact, no one will ever take any more initiatives. After all, Mr Gorenak is a master at this, he has already said this at one meeting about the convening of referendums and everything else. But now I have to say something else. I'm sorry, not Gorenak, I was gonna say Grimes, so I'm gonna get better. What I was going to say is, you'll know, they're the first to photocopy their own signatures, and here was the basis that no one could read to them anymore, and that we could verify how many of these signatures were actually given, the originals, in the National Assembly. And if they didn't have photocopiers, the case would probably be closed that day, because we wouldn't have any guarantee or opportunity to talk about how much they really did bring signatures. No, it's not their fault. Far from it. I'm scared, I admit it. When a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia says the voter is guilty. Please, we're totally out of here!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u230	Mr Grimes has a replica, followed by Mr Prevc as a debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u231	Dear Mr Möderndorfer, if someone doesn't want to hear it, he can't hear it. I have told you what experience there are in this House, what my personal experience is and what legal practice has always been in this House. If someone asked for a certificate, they could have gotten one. And this certificate, which accurately noted how many leaves he had received, and this certificate was then the basis for all further action. That is to say, if you think it's a minor matter or that someone has already been declared guilty in advance, I must say, I'm surprised. But the fact is that there is no basis in this story for what you are now reading to the Minister, at least for his resolution, and that, in fact, this whole story is a completely senseless waste of time that you caused when you rushed into the interpolation requirement, you did not wait for the results of the official institutions when they came, but you obviously went to too much political prestige to remove the completely obvious inadvertent interpretation. This is why the National Assembly here today is using taxpayers' money and people are then justly angry with it because of your bloatedness because you didn't want to withdraw some initiative, and here we forget 12 hours and God knows how many hours we're going to be. And here we need to take into account not only our time, we can somehow forget it, but it's about money for all those people, all the jobs they're doing right now, everything that's accompanying the work of this Parliament. Instead of taking those measures that are necessary, instead of even addressing, if you want, the requirement for a constitutional judgment against the perfectly kind worded inappropriate or not saying a developmental destructive initiative for the referendum law on the implementation of the budget, we are now dealing with something that the official institutions have already found that there is not really any concrete fault at all, except that it was one conduct that no institution should have in a normal country, because it is not normally working in this way. In this way people’s trust in institutions is lost and the public’s response is therefore justifiably negative. But justifiably, it's also negative because we're not doing anything else here today than wasting our time. You yourself do not believe in the merits of your interpretation, and you have already announced on several occasions that in the end the Minister will receive our trust, which he also deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u233	The conclusion of your implementation is that it is the responsibility of those who have brought signatures to the National Council for the Initiative to start collecting signatures for the referendum. It's sad. That's what you keep telling me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Now, Mrs. Prevc, please, Mr. Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, indeed, this debate takes place for almost 12 hours, and I can say that even after 12 hours of discussion, you have not convinced me that I will vote differently than I have decided in the morning when this debate began. There's no way I can support the interpellation against the minister based on your guesses, based on your suspicions, without any clear evidence of guilt. I absolutely do not agree that some heads fall solely for political reasons or political pressure. And the well-respected proponents, that's exactly what you're doing today, and that's exactly what your interpretation is. The fact is that the handling of the signatures for the referendum was totally inappropriate both in the National Assembly and in the Ministry of the Interior. The fact is, none of these institutions are obliged to count at least the number of sheets that have arrived that have been brought by the applicants. This fact is totally unacceptable to me. As soon as the signatures were lost, we made it clear in the Slovenian People's Party that law enforcement authorities were required to investigate such blemishes as soon as possible. But until that happens, we don't have to point our finger at anyone, which is exactly what you've been doing all day. I still hope this problem doesn't go under the rug. I really want to find out where those signatures went. Unfortunately, but especially with this debate, we cannot find out because Members are not cops, we are not investigative bodies. It is practically very difficult to take any position with regard to the many and also the various information we receive in one way or another. In those days, I was also expecting the results of an investigation into the copying machine that made copies of these signatures. That's not what we're talking about today. Or any other results of the investigation. The Anti-Corruption Commission does not more than point out this late date for the return of signatures that have been given in legal terms, but it does not in any way raise a significant problem. It's a loss of signatures. Here too, the fault of the disappearance of signatures has not yet been determined. It is similar for the information officer, administrative inspection. Therefore, honourable Members, I am also convinced today, on the basis of this debate, that we cannot show Minister Gorenak neither subjective nor objective guilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Hršak gave up the debate. Next up, it's mag. Majda Potrat and behind her, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. You didn't apologize to me that I had to wait so long for the debate. It's okay, 'cause I could have guessed when it was my turn. Now I would start my debate by thinking carefully about the causes and consequences. The reason for today's interpolation is certainly an event that we have witnessed since this government's appearance, which is, in fact, without consent, a broader consensus on the adoption of laws that have fatal consequences for Slovenian society. The Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act had many opponents not only in the opposition but also in the professional circles. But the coalition was deaf and blind, and the law brought it through the procedure, so it is no wonder that the announcement was made, and then the call for a referendum. And this is where the fundamental problem begins. I have already mentioned in the opinion of the parliamentary group that the highest political functions make this most democratic right sound very bad, this is the right to a referendum. It's said that these are exotic blockages, and I don't know what else. But now look at something interesting. If you look at data on how many requests and initiatives for referendums have been submitted over a period of time, you will get very interesting numbers. In view of the period 2004 to 2008, 18 initiatives or requests have been tabled together. Two subsequent legislative referendums were carried out and one consultation was held. So three. However, if I am looking at a period that was not full but the first early end of the period from 2008 to 2011, 23 initiatives or requests for a referendum have been tabled together. And if you go to see how many have been carried out, six legislative referendums have been held. And now those who were so vehemently demanding referendums during the time they were in the opposition – remember, four times against the law and once against the government – now across Europe they say that we have some exotic legislation. That's a very interesting approach. I think that these questions also need to be answered, how European circles respond to these changed positions and decisions. And see when we cannot agree on how to regulate referendum legislation in the constitution – do you still remember the pressures of introducing a golden fiscal rule into the constitution? Wasn't this also about preventing referendums on individual topics? I don't have such a bad memory that I couldn't hold onto these facts when I was looking at what was actually going on in connection with this interpolation. Two different requests have been submitted if we are now looking at how referendum requests will be implemented. For one, there are 30 Members and Members of Parliament; for the other, he collects the trade unions' signatures. And I find it extremely interesting that the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industry union was not naive when it brought 2 thousand 500 or more, but needed 2 thousand 500 signatures to start collecting signatures for the referendum. Because, because what did they do? Photocopies were prepared and knew precisely without the number being recorded, how many signatures were filed, and much more so because they calculated that some signatures could also be removed in the verification. And that's what happened. And I am not discussing what three institutions have found, that 36 leaves have changed the aggregate situation, and that is why none of these institutions have been able to determine who was responsible for the 36 leaves being lost. I am not discussing this at all, so I think it is irrelevant whether we have read the seventh and eighth pages of the Commission's report to prevent corruption or not, when we have all stressed from the outset that weaknesses have been identified in the management of material, both in one institution and in another. What is forgotten is the vast majority of debaters who do not agree with what we claim in the Group of Social Democrats, that the Minister is objectively responsible, that many such things have been found to be in store and functioning, which indicate violations of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. And here's the point of all the debate. The Anti-Corruption Commission has identified several weaknesses, and the Anti-Corruption Commission has also found that internal controls have not been carried out carefully enough. If I were to express myself now with the words of the Minister and with his repeated joy at various metaphors, then I would say that this internal control showed what would happen if you let the fox guard the hens. It is simply that this is also an opportunity for us to consider, with all due care, how we have regulated internal control, when we are dealing with changes in legislation that discusses both the organisation of the police and the tasks and competences of the police. These are important questions. In fact, I would now mention my greatest disappointment, which I have experienced today in the Minister's complementary explanation. I didn't think he'd offer a resignation, because if I wanted to, I'd have done it a long time ago. I didn't expect that, either, because he expressed his joy over two hours of television broadcasting, because he booked for the show for hours. But what I would expect would be that, as a holder of an important function in the executive branch, it shows at least a little respect for the legislative branch of power and that with at least a little more seriousness it deals with a very serious problem, because it is a serious error that justifies confidence in public state institutions. And I haven't seen that, and that's my biggest disappointment. I would just like to point out that perhaps Mr Minister is really pleased with the haste with which he wrote his response to the request of Positive Slovenia, but there may also be some poor argument in such haste. Well, I'll give some kind of warning, not all the cases, but some. See, when the Minister points out that at any other event related to the request for verification of signatures, the deadline was such that the request was sent from Friday and then on Tuesday, a report is made. The law on gambling, you spoke about it, Mr Minister, the request was filed with the Ministry of the Interior on Friday and a report was sent on Tuesday. This requirement, which resulted in so many and so many pages, was tabled on 25 and 26. The signatures were already reviewed, the draft report was written, you already knew about the report, and then this report was sent to the National Assembly only on Tuesday. The difference is obvious, but she'll be seen by someone who wants to listen and wants to understand. However, in the course of this unfortunate transmission of the report, I think you have made another unacceptable mistake that could be explained to me. In fact, you said that the report was sent to the National Assembly on Tuesday only because the courier carried electoral directories to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the same time. But in the event report, you know, about those 41 events, you can also understand that at the Ministry, in the competent service, you understand, you checked the electoral records or you were supposed to do them only on Tuesday, that is, that day. And I don't know, it's impossible to identify a courier, a whole series of things can't be understood from the reports. The third thing that really strikes me in your argument is that you're referring to the first time you've had to do two requirements for a referendum at the same time. Yes, but we also adopted two laws at the same time, because this is not something the opposition has invented. To help you, Mr. Minister, I would like to quote you from the magnetogram of your reply today: "The first thing I want to explain is that in the SD I received an open office where there were three signatures. Let me complement what the answer says here and what the Anti-Corruption Commission has found." Yes, in the partial report, you have been challenged by the anti-corruption commission and SNAP, page 15, footnote 11, has also responded precisely to this. In response to the interim report, he told you, you commented that the building was under control and therefore there was no need to be locked, but they replied that they did not bother you at all, but they were concerned that there was a bunch of personal data sheets on the desk that should be protected. And here, you see, now there is a fundamental difference between the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior, because the National Assembly is also a controlled building, because we have cameras everywhere, and some Members, by the way, are also trying to lock up their offices. But what's important is that in the National Assembly, the material was in a locked closet, and at the Ministry of the Interior, on the table where individuals brought the lists they examined, and they didn't hand them over, as they were called, authorized officials, and they didn't put everything into their hands. And I could read you a lot more from this report, which suggests that there are a lot of arguments for me to say again that you are objectively responsible, Mr Minister. And that is because you have done carefree, irresponsible, unlawfully, and you have not allowed your up-to-date conduct so that the group that submitted 2 000 500 and more signatures could possibly add the missing signatures from its collected material and the matter would have expired so that you could start collecting 40,000 signatures. That's what this is about, nothing else. For us to identify objective responsibility, as we have explained it several times today. And what bothers me in all this matter is that we are all at the principle level to pursue corruption, to take responsibility, to start with visible individuals and not just hunt for hot thieves, as Mr Minister says, but to get these things right. I could now talk about what was happening with regard to the composition of the internal commission, which you have also responded to. You also appointed two public servants from your office. Now it doesn't matter how many of these groups you've chosen, but the fact is, it doesn't matter to me now, and from your answer, from your MRI, you could read these cities from the interpretation. It is enough for me to warn the Commission that corruption can be prevented in these responses and, after what they have done in their investigation, to find that some statements by employees differ, we can ask ourselves why your internal control has not established this. So much for that. However, what I would like to say to you, Mr Minister, and now I am pleased to note that Mr President of the Government will also hear this and that it concerns those debaters and those debates that have already reached the stage of police demonstrations and actions in this regard. Perhaps I could say, however, that it would be only right if my proposal for a debate on the Government's response to the parliamentary question, which measured exactly what was going on today, how it happened, was voted on today's vote. And that I have no ill intentions in this regard, let me just say that in the Group of Social Democrats, we have made a request for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, and then we have withdrawn this request because another request for an urgent meeting has been withdrawn, and then a statement by the President of the National Assembly was made not to pour oil on fire at the time of the protests announced. So it's all for that. In those proposed conclusions, however, it was also possible to find out about the report adopted by the Government on Maribor events in order to establish an independent, impartial expert group to investigate these events in order to answer questions as to whether excessive force had been used in the Maribor demonstrations or whether there were credible testimony that we could read across the network about what was going on. Let's just say I know that I've been accused of having a child with special needs who, as an asthmatic, had major problems with tear gas and parents will do the right thing because this child is really 12 years old, so no one will ever say anything about children again. And we also asked whether the police were adequately equipped to intervene, to act in such high-risk events. We went all over the place. But as a matter of fact, it's not. However, I would point out that I cannot be satisfied with the fact that we are dealing with demonstrations and protests by saying that the requirements of the rule of law are justified, while at almost every step we are undermining confidence in the rule of law institutions. With proposals, we create a hierarchy between the three separate branches of government and then something happens to us that we read in the newspaper a statement by a very well-known SDS member who writes, I will only say one piece: "The Ljubljana and Maribor protests contain reckless but also useful ingredients. We can understand them and interpret them as support for government reforms." Even so, some of the coalition understand protests and demonstrations. I don't understand them that way. But now, Mr. Secretary, there is one thing I must say. You are when you took the police officers to the defense, and it is right that you took them to the dam because in Maribor the mothers of the police protested because they said they wanted to protect their children, as the parents of the detained protestors and others protested. But let's say that when you said that this was the first experience of police officers with such high-risk events with dice and the like, Mr. Minister, because you remember two years ago you were chairman of a committee that had an urgent session regarding student demonstrations before parliament. Do you remember playing videos for us? That at the time you were talking about whether the police were doing the right thing or not and had a lot to say at the expense of that. But look, in the newspaper, it was also possible to read a statement by an anonymous member of a special police unit who said in the first part of that statement that the law was clear and that he, as a police officer, had to obey the operational headquarters or his superiors and said, "We have dealt with it according to the instructions of the operational headquarters". Asked if these instructions were somewhat less sharp at the Ljubljana protests two years ago, he replied, "I remember, yes, at the time the instructions were different". As it is said, I think this is a matter that we should discuss in the National Assembly that a special debate should be held. In this debate, many have been led into these waters, and it is right to say that someone who sends a message to the minister may belong in the category of offenders. Because that text was written by someone who was once in the same party that I am in, and perhaps someone would put it in the gerontological left hand, as it happens to me. However, Mr Minister, I have gone overboard and have also broken through your boots, found a lot of interesting but what I would also like to place on your hearts to other members of the Government: it is not possible for official communication, for good contact with people, for a respectful and dignified communication channel to be used by some form of communication that is acceptable on social networks, but the executive branch of the government has all the other channels through which it can communicate in an argumentative manner what it has to inform people. Mr Minister, I hope I have not offended you with my debate. I haven't spelled it out with any expressive word, but I don't mean anything less clearly and decisively that you are responsible, because I understand responsibility, so once again, that responsibility is judged by what its effects on society are. As Minister of the Interior, you have the opportunity to influence your actions, and in this case you wanted or caused it to be reported that there were not enough signatures to start collecting signatures for the referendum. However, I did not claim your subjective responsibility, but I will vote in favour of your discharge.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Ms Masha Kociper has the floor, Mr Jože Tanko is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Chairman. I also wanted to say hello to the Prime Minister, and I was late. I am almost a year old and a little tired in this House, and we have to tell you that sometimes I really cry. Sometimes you laugh, sometimes you cry. I've been crying a lot today. Most often when members of the coalition, in particular on the left hand side, claim and repeat and convince how foolish this interpretation is, how foolishly we are wasting our time and how we can do better. I don't know what they can do better than what they're paid for. And they are no longer paid to sit here today, and I know that as an opposition Member I have been paid to control, to oversee the government's work, to comment on my proposals. And when they disappear, they miraculously disappear, as we have found, under the initiative of the referendum, when they reach out to the constitutional and human rights of citizens to the referendum, when the executive branch or the legislative branch reaches this right, it does seem to me that it is the opposition's duty to report. Last but not least, we have a constitution here where interpretation is written down as an option that belongs to us. As an opportunity belonging to this country, not to the opposition. As an opportunity to discuss political responsibility and the work of a minister or government. Our Group has already made a clear effort, given the previous statements, to show both citizens and Members who do not understand the difference between subjective and objective or political responsibility. I drew, wrote, graphed, told myself what subjective responsibility was, quoted Dr. Cerar, who said that political hierarchical responsibility, as she was told, was responsible for the consequences, without the need for direct criminal responsibility of the responsible person, i.e. the minister. Not that there's any need for direct responsibility. I quoted Professor Grad as saying that the Minister is politically responsible for the ministry's functioning and, of course, for his work. He is responsible for the Ministry's policy as well as its implementation. This means that he is responsible not only for his work but also for the work of his subordinates under the responsibility of the Minister. Ten times we have stressed here in Positive Slovenia that we are exercising only political responsibility today and that we do not want and cannot and cannot judge and find faulty responsibilities because this is the work of the prosecution or the police. Despite our claim, some have understood these matters since before, some of them, as I see, are not here, they still do not understand, almost the whole debate has taken place on the ground that the guilt cannot be proved that this was and that this is not proving anything and that we cannot judge the poor minister, when everything is not clear and so on and so forth. With particular emphasis on the fact that guilt is not important for this interpretation. We also said that disaster is what happened with these signatures – and in this regard we all agree, left, right, black, yellow, blue, I don't know what we're supposed to be in here, you've all argued ten times today that it's really terrible, it's tiring, it's a dream, it's a disaster. I don't know what we said. But no one's to blame. You finally found out. What a shame! Someone was talking about conspiracy theory, someone said it wouldn't be possible to figure it out, obviously there was a miracle, someone else said they didn't want to judge the minister. No one wants to judge him, in accordance with the Constitution, we want to exercise political responsibility for what has happened: for the disappearance of signatures that have not yet been found, which are not yet there, regardless of where the originals were. There has been a serious and grave intervention, which has fortunately been discovered — but could not have been — and which interferes with the foundations of our constitutional arrangement. Positive Slovenia immediately called on the two responsible people, the President of the National Assembly and the Minister of Home Affairs, to take responsibility — and to do little — and to step down. You didn't do it. Today, the President of the National Assembly very rarely attends our debate. Interesting. At least for him, Dr. Law, I'm sure he understands exactly what the difference between subjective liability and objective political responsibility should be. Morale. Because it's different from the state, and it's like democracy that we're falling down on. But his presence is obviously not necessary, for during this debate today it has been found that you have agreed in the coalition that you will not accuse each other. We have heard very little of the accusations made by both the minister and the SDS parties here today, and by Mr Tank, who has talked about this in the past, at the expense of the President of the National Assembly. Gentlemen's agreement. "Give it to me, and I won't have you, man, and we'll both survive. There's a staff member who'll take responsibility, someone's got to, man, it can't go on like that." And it already shows which way this responsibility is going. He's a colleague before, and I'm not gonna get names, no doubt when we say whether the secretary general or someone else is coming. It's scandalous if someone doesn't take responsibility and hide behind what happened. Instead of clarifying who is politically responsible, we have found that what the Anti-Corruption Commission and other investigations have said points more to Minister Gorenak, and we have said that we will start there. For the MNZ, the anti-corruption expert said, "the report notes that it is not possible to determine with certainty which body the leaves were lost or estranged, while the findings show that it is more likely that this occurred at the MNZ". This, and other things, Mrs Potrata has broken things down, but they point more to the MNZ. This does not mean that someone else may not be politically responsible. But no, we haven't discovered this today, we'd rather hide behind the confusion and rejection of responsibility in general. In his basic explanation, the SDS representative, instead of talking about this political responsibility, talked about how Positive Slovenia is hiding, some of its sins in this interpretation and that we are not ashamed and what we are doing and so on. Misapprehension. Whoever compares the photocopies of signatures under the referendum with the loss of signatures is really moving. We really put the photocopies under one referendum, said out loud that they were photocopies, and immediately the second day with protected phone and internet addresses confirmed that this is our clearly expressed will. We hoped that, as is possible in electoral law, someone would think that it was more than form, ownership, perhaps an important expressed will of Members. When the President of the National Assembly acted formally with one hand and rejected our request, it would be said that if we wanted to define it, we had just finished. So I don't know what the crazy thing is about this and what the consequences are, Mr Tanko, it's caused by this. We hoped that such a signature, which was subsequently confirmed, would be valid, not valid, move on. Comparing what happened to the disappearance of signatures with us giving photocopies is really funny. In the following we have heard the whole range of discredits, as our political opponents are characterized by, from the old left, gerontologically, to the transition between the parties, to the sins of Zoran Janković by long and fast. By the way, Mrs Eva, you are disturbing me again when you talk about more criminal proceedings being brought against the President of our party, and I would ask you to have at least the basic human rights, at least the basic ones, apply to him. I'm not going to defend him because it doesn't make sense, but I'm going to explain to you how many criminal proceedings he's in. It has been in place for years, in the course of an investigation into some purchase of land in Nis, the proceedings are led by the son of Mrs Barbara Brezigar, Mr Jaka Brezigar, and is in the pre-trial procedure, since even the formal complaint is not filed in connection with the Concise case. To make it clear how many criminal proceedings he's in. Again, it's about trying to discredit, and it's about trying to blur things out. We have even heard that they are guilty — not the Minister, not the President of the National Assembly, perhaps not those who are employees, but those who have brought signatures to Parliament. I'm shocked at how far the imagination of some goes. We've also heard that we're doing a pier-service for someone to be afraid of and so forth. We're not doing any of this at all. In accordance with Article 118 of the Constitution, in accordance with the Law on Members, Article 19, and in accordance with Rule 250 of the Rules of Procedure, we exercise our right to interpretation. And if this debate seems so stupid to you, I don't know why you've all been reporting to the debate on this side for 12 hours in a row. Either your representative would step down or you'd be quiet if you thought it was stupid, or you'd tell me 5 hours or 3 hours or we had, but it wouldn't take 12 hours. So each dose has been added to these 12 hours. In the end, I will come to what is essential, and we will again be missing the possibility of someone taking political responsibility for what is happening in the National Assembly. Again. And that's what people in the streets want to say, not what you're all ascribe to them. And I'm going to quote it, and I'm going to quote it more and more, my friend Jakič, who said very real words. Some political option, and now I won't be too direct, for years and years throwing mud, he said something else, I'll say mud, in the fan, and this mud syringe after all: by new, by old etc. And in the end, we're all in common, the same cloudy milk that this political option wants. The one on the stage one year ago, I, who was nervous more than a year ago before TV, that there was something to be done and that's why I went to politics, that I could never tell myself that I didn't at least try, and the one who's been here for 20 years has been striving for referendums, non-referendums, now yes, now no, now you have the right, now you don't have the right, now you don't have it. And then they charge us. No, it's not me who's been on stage for 20 years, political silence, you who are new, you're political silence. You really don't know what to think anymore. The fact is that today you have the opportunity of Members and Members to decide on the political responsibility of a particular person. You all said that this act that happened was something unheard of. If this is unheard of, someone has to take responsibility. You're the one who's taking over. Not my opposition. I've already said we don't have enough votes. The rest of you. And to show people on the road that taking responsibility is possible, that our country has the solution to take responsibility for those who are guilty and thereby cleanse themselves of those who are not. And it starts to separate between the good and the bad. Not that we're all bad all of a sudden. So I think, without having any objection to this minister or perhaps to the President of the National Assembly, that neither the person nor the details of when any matter has come to us, but the weight of this act, the loss of referendum signatures requires someone to take responsibility. That's what we decide. Or the weight of this act requires taking responsibility. As it is said, people in the past have taken responsibility for much smaller things, for railway accidents, for explosions in a weapons warehouse, etc. Undoubtedly, this matter is so difficult that someone has to take responsibility. Either it should be taken over by Minister Gorenak or the President of the National Assembly. Remember, the opposition can't. That's why I'm going to support the interpolation, and I'm going to ask each of you in the coalition to do the same. Indeed, this is the way of working in the National Assembly, which is determined by the Rules of Procedure, since coalition parties and opposition parties decide at the beginning of the debate how they will vote. Why do we have five, six, seven, three hours of debate? Today, we prepared ourselves, "intentioned", arguing that we would convince you that someone must take political responsibility. Now, after this debate, regardless of what you have agreed before in the coalition, take your decision and take your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Minister Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Of course, I have some things to answer, and I think it's okay. One of them is Mr Chehovin, who I did not reply to earlier, because where I do not know for sure or if I doubt any of my claims, I will get help. You used to ask if it wasn't right to check the suspects first. And they wrote those who knew about it, about the next answer. I'll tell you now. The police exercise their powers professionally and legally at the start, in accordance with ethics and also exercise these powers. The choice of appropriate criminal tactics is a matter of the police all over the world. And that's how it is with us, of course. Most of the time, the police conduct a crime scene first, collect notices from people who know about the case, carry out house investigations, etc., and then, after most of the cases, focus on the suspect. In this case, too, everything was fine because Mrs Župevčeva was not a suspect. Mrs Potrata, as regards the mass use of coercive resources, the matter is also clear. A special commission shall be established on each use of coercive measures, where this is used against more than five persons. And so it is in all cases of the latest events. If you have anything to say to these commissions, politely invited to Litostrojska, Stefanovo or any police station. You can also send me an anonymous message, and we'll take it seriously. These MEPs, Mrs Potrat, would suggest that the new police legislation would better define internal control. Of course, you're wrong. This is where you waved through. The hunters would say, "Shoot it empty." However, it is the fact that police legislation defines police procedures and police, administrative and internal affairs, or the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs, which we are talking about, does not exercise police powers and does not belong to the police, so other types of supervision can be exercised there. Disappointment. Yeah, I've known for a long time that you've been a very disappointed person, actually since 2008, since we've known each other personally in this National Assembly, but I don't have a cure for that. I can help you with something else, a security issue, we can advise you on some other stuff, like the D.A., we have experts on it, we can help you with something else, but there's nothing to be disappointed about, and I'm not an expert on it. What happened on the 25th, the 26th, the 21st and the 30th, I repeat, I must repeat. On the 25th we worked on two referendum initiatives, and on the 25th we also basically counted, checked the 26th, concluded, signed Mrs Brezigarjev and went back to the National Assembly. On the other, we started on the 25th, checked one third, completed the count, and reviewed the 26th. Since it was late in the afternoon, we were in control of the 19th when this check was completed, I signed the matter and on the 30th arrived in the National Assembly. Yeah, that's what you confirmed, okay, yeah, that we were dealing with electoral directories on Tuesday. There was a lot of work at the time and we were delivering these electoral directories for the presidential elections of the MZZ and, of course, you're right. And that is also true of what I said earlier about the day when the report arrived in the National Assembly. When you read the Commission's report on anti-corruption, you read the interim report. I would advise you to read a permanent report, one that is the final report to which we have commented and many have been taken into account. This report also addresses the open office. It's true, it troubles him, I'm not hiding anything from it, and I have no problem with it. At the same time, however, it must be said that electronic security is the whole house and that it is not possible to step inside. And there's a security guard on the case, too. And that protection was, and she knew that and took into account the anti-corruption commission. The composition of the internal commission, I repeat: the best investigator of police procedures, the policeman of the entire life, who has the conditions of retirement, this led, there were two police officers inside, an expert in computer processing of data and also criminality, there was a person working in the area of the State Prosecutor's Office and also supervision in that administrative part of the State Prosecutor's Office, there were two people inside, and one of them was employed in my confidence, and he is also a former police officer. So you can't tell me the effect or any kind of adjustment, because that's not possible, of course not in this part. Children in Maribor. Once again, I inform you that the children are not imprisoned, that the minors are not in custody, and that only those who are over 18 years of age who have gone through, for the first time, police procedures have collected evidence, the prosecutor has judged the evidence, the prosecutor has proposed detention, the investigating judge has approved the detention, and the examiner has confirmed it. And I have no bad conscience for anyone who's in there. So don't talk about things you don't know or anything. The 2010 demonstrations and the film I was showing you, I still have the video if you want me to send it to you, and you will see some things on this video that are different from these demonstrations in any case. In any case, because then the police did not locate the group that broke up, because even then not all demonstrators were throwing stones, but now at these demonstrations, at least at those in Ljubljana and others in Maribor, relatively successful – and I am glad that this is the case – the police also locate with the help of the citizens of the breakers, and those who commit crimes and crimes and throw dice at the police. And we're taking action against them. This did not happen in Ljubljana in 2010, so I also relatively criticised the work of the police because it did not find or poorly locate that there were double demonstrations and that some had undeclared demonstrations, in 2010, and students were reported. And they did everything right about the students. As for the group led by the well-known professor of FDV, the second question is, and we did not locate them in time, and they were the ones who started throwing the dice, and later the individual students. You were also talking about an anonymous police officer who wouldn't beat up a neighbor and a hungry neighbor. That's a letter I got, too. This is a letter circulating, I think you've been talking about, if there's anything else, I apologize, you'll explain, there's a letter from a police officer, a suspect who won't beat up a neighbor who's hungry. No cop, and everybody knows it, no need to beat a neighbor who's hungry. None of the cops have those tasks, and that's not what they do. We deal with the use of coercive means of all kinds, except firearms, and we have practically used others against violent demonstrators, those who commit offences or crimes. Otherwise, I personally believe that the letter is not written by a police officer, but is written for propaganda purposes and is rolled by those who write blogs, published by favored newspapers and so on. But if a cop like that insists, I invite him to come forward because nothing's gonna happen to him, but he's gonna have to prove it to me and tell me who told him to beat up hungry neighbors. And if he's gonna prove it to me and we're gonna find this police officer, believe me, we're gonna run disciplinary procedures. Because such an elder would exceed his authority. Personally, I do not believe that such a policeman is an imaginary name, an imaginary letter to create a favourable public opinion for you. As far as it is concerned, Mrs Kociprova, yes, because now you have really put a bigger circle in a smaller one, what you have tried several times to make it bigger in a smaller one. But now you've almost succeeded in the current performance, obviously that's a good thing. I'm not gonna take your gig separately, and I'd like to congratulate you on making a bigger round in a smaller one, but I'd still say something. You've invited Members, you've been looking at this page, yeah, leave our Jankovic behind, he's in one predictive process and so on. Actually, I didn't mention him at all. But I've tracked your Members, more than before, who are now in Positive Slovenia, but they were somewhere else before, and yet another term back somewhere else, and before that, yes, and I've tracked you down, and I think that your colleague was on the left, who are always talking about arms trade after 22 or 23 years, and the current Prime Minister. That's allowed. But here all the trials from A to Z have already been completed and there is no pre-trial proceedings and there is no criminal charge and no trial is being conducted for the weapons of 1991-1993. That's what you were talking about, that's your favorite theme. If you are asking our Members not to use this, I would ask that your Members also stop talking about things that have been investigated and concluded by the courts a long time ago. It's really something. I understand your efforts to interpolate, your efforts to remove me. If you once had and if you once had, you or those behind you had an impact on some of the things that are indirectly also the subject of this interpretation, let's say a bad bank. Why are you fighting so hard for a bad bank referendum? Why? The problem that you have, I can also say publicly, and it is only right that we make this public. When a bad bank is established, it will be necessary for each gentleman or every lady of the left or right political province to tell why she has given credit and to whom she has given it and how she has secured it. That's when it's gonna have to be said. And then those who are responsible will answer. Not that I'm predicting this because I know everything that's gonna happen, but it's normal for this to happen. It's perfectly normal for this to happen. Those who took two and a half billion out of one banking system were disbursed in the form of loans that were not returned today and for which they must also give those fathers and old mothers who have 300 euros in pension from their pension. And we're lowering their pensions and lowering their wages. Yeah, why? Also because that's where the money went. And it is right that the competent services that I am currently running, and at this point I am still somehow responsible as Minister for them, do this: knock and say they are coming. And that's right. You see, and that's why you're afraid, and that's why you're yelling so much about this. And that's your problem. And it is right that the Slovenian public knows that this is your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm not disappointed because your answer revealed your fundamental move, and that's sexism. What you've done to me now that you've painted my psychogram, how I should be permanently disappointed since 2008, I leave to the judgment of those who have to deal with me more often and more intimately than you. Now, about the kids. It was about tear gas and asthma. Absolutely not about detention. But all the things you've made up about the demonstrations now, I have proposed as a special debate, because this is a topic, a difficult topic for which enough time should be taken. However, I did not in any way take the right to judge things for which I am not qualified. I'm not a criminal, and I don't want to be a criminal. It's a little late to become a cop and something else. I do not need your help and thank you very much for all these good wishes, how you would like to educate me. I think you have enough work to do with your education in your parliamentary group. As far as interpolation is concerned. Do you see that far? This is the final report. And I advise you to read in this final report what I referred to and I also told you where it is: on page 15, note 11, I will not read to you again, because this is a matter of reading understanding. As a Tibetan prayer mill, you constantly repeat the same things and do not listen at all to what a person tells you. The fact that you only sent a report to the National Assembly on Tuesday cannot be linked, I argued, that you had to do the electoral directory verification. And you're saying it's connected. It's not connected. But there's something else I'd like to tell you, because I forgot to tell you before. See, the significant difference between the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior is last mentioned on the 12th page, where the Anti-Corruption Commission advises that, given the existing e-registration of electoral rights and the already existing computer application to verify the appropriateness of the signatories to the initiative, the possibility of their adequacy being examined directly by the staff or the services of the National Assembly, thus also eliminating the risk of manipulation with relatively short legal deadlines. And here's to see where they can be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u244	It's been three minutes, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u245	mistakes and where there could be fewer. [[...]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u247	I have to react, because now the minister is really upset. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've noticed. I've been evaluating myself to discredit you personally. I don't think it's easy for you to listen to all these hours here today. I have been extremely careful that I have not attacked you personally, so I am very surprised that you first discredited the distinguished elderly lady, Madam Ambassador Potter, ugly and contemptible, and then tried to do it quickly with me. It's really hard for me to see anything else right now, and you've tried these bullets. A good attempt, I must say that I still do not understand what was wrong with trying, in the second context of some budgetary adjustments, to explain that this spending which the country has now and which is financed by credit will have to be put into a smaller spending that will be financed without credit and, as you say, where we will spend as much as we need. What's wrong with this is still not clear to me. But it's true that every thing is good when you want to discredit someone. You've given me the wrong way to talk about guns. I didn't even mention the guns. If you thought this message that today an investigation was initiated against six people in Finland who were accused of bribery by the Prime Minister and Deputy General Staff in Slovenia, someone else was talking about it, not me, if that's what you meant. As far as the bank is concerned, it's also one really weird crowding that we don't want a referendum. Firstly, this referendum does not now require a positive Slovenia but a union. Secondly, we believe that the solution, which brings all the blame and all the burden of paying these debts to citizens, is unfair. Thirdly, you and your client are deceiving citizens when you say that this law will show what happened in banks. Our delegation invited you to withdraw your business secrets to the Bank of Slovenia report. You saw him, the Prime Minister saw him, and unfortunately we didn't see him. Let's get this business secret out of the way. And secondly, what you all say together is that obsolescence will be considered a tycoon is a pure lie. Obsolescence, like everything in criminal law, will only apply to crimes that will be committed from now on, so the article that you and your client are referring to is that it will reveal all the sins that have occurred in banks, just throwing sand in the eyes. It won't apply to any old tycoon - not yours or ours, I don't even know which one's mine. Why are all of them always mine, and I'm only here a year? Yours: ours – none will be considered back, but only forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you weren't here when I spoke, so you misquoted me. I wasn't talking about police tactics. Because of me, the police can do whatever they want, at night, at noon, at noon, at noon, and they can come anytime. But I was talking about something else. If a criminalist comes to any Member, I hope that we are still in democracy to say what this Member is: whether he is a witness or an investigator or just like that. That is what I think every Member has the right to request. That's what I'm talking about. And I said it was normal for a criminal suspect to be investigated first, only in the end, if anything is not clear, then witnesses will be called. Have any of your criminals told us what quality we are? We had to feel like criminals. That's what I'm talking about. And I'm saying it again. You don't deserve a frame for this place. I'm gonna tell you this one more time. And you can hit me all you want, you can come to me, you can come whenever you want, even if it's about Patricia, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Minister Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u251	Look, I'm going to tell you again that in most cases, criminals are the last ones to focus on a suspect. Like everyone else, I don't know if they've even spoken to you or not, I don't know that because I haven't remembered the names and surnames, but I've made it very clear that you can't fake your signature and you can't be a suspect. That's perfectly clear. And you're adding everything else. Mrs. Kociper, I don't know what you understand. I had no intention of offending you when I spoke about the comparison between Mr Jankovic and Mr Janša, I only took some of your fellow Members to keep this topic out and, in fact, put it out today and referred to some arms trade, 1991-1993, and you spoke of something else in your context. Do you know who by law can trade secrets, officially, secretly, strictly secret, internally, etc. Get out of here? You know that. And now you're asking me and the government to withdraw the level of secrecy. The degree of secrecy under the law is removed by the one who gave it. And no one else. The Government cannot withdraw the degree of secrecy from the Bank of Slovenia document or anything else. The government did not give a degree of secrecy to that document and the Government cannot give a degree of secrecy from that document. This can only be done by the person who made the document. This is the Bank of Slovenia. Because you've shown it as if the government could do it, and they won't. If I could do it, if the government could do it, I would do it first. Because it's the interest of this government to know exactly who the loan is. I cannot say because the document has a degree of secrecy set by the Bank of Slovenia. So don't call on the government because the government can't take it back. But that's all you need to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! It is now 14 days since we started the budget debate. On 4 December, we had a budget package and at that meeting we also discussed the 2013 and 2014 budgets. I must say that the enthusiasm for the debate at that meeting was significantly lower than it was at this meeting. This was a key development document for the country for two years. This is actually what you're willing to give a lot of weight and a lot of commitment to, and you're not really interested in. At that session we also had a pension reform, the law on STIZ. Look how much time you spent discussing pension reform. A little time. Very little time. And it was another key document at that session. Today, when we are engaged or you want to deal with where some other signatures are, we can't talk here about either the place or anything, what you're talking about, but there's some part of the documentation left behind and it hasn't been processed, and we have a debate for 18 hours. Twice as much as the budget for two years. However, the budgetary conditions are the same as for the treatment of interpolation. Double time. What does that say? This tells us all that you have great problems when we discuss substantive matters, that you have great problems when we discuss some strategic issues, key issues, and no problems when it comes to discussing eighteen hours of a small matter. I think it's actually a key that explains the whole season of 1. 1. and so far. On the one hand, we have a coalition dealing with key problems, on the other hand, the opposition or part of the opposition dealing with all other matters. They're smaller, they're smaller, they're smaller, there's a greater announcement of time, and there's more discussion. These reform laws were not the only ones that mattered during this period. There's a few more. But what's interesting is that everything that this coalition has prepared has begun to collapse systematically. In this set of demolitions, many things have come together — from the State Council, which voted veto on almost every key matter or at least tried to, until almost every point, an important thing was put to the request for a referendum. I can justifiably, that's not what I'm getting into, but it was. On the one hand, we speak and force the government to propose measures and to tire it out, on the other hand, immediately after such a measure has come to the table, there is one procedural matter that is essentially halting the matter. Such two laws, which experienced this fate, were also the law on the Slovenian State Holding and also the law on the so-called bad bank. They both went the same way. Many debates, blockades, failed summer talks, both were vetoed when this happened, when we reconfirmed the law, for both attempts to apply for a referendum. Someone then changed his mind, in one part it turned out, that there were no signatures and then a political jump with one or the other "shampast" prepared the requirement of Positive Slovenia. This is the history and story of this mandate, this ten-month term. In fact, I am surprised that two such strong political groups, one who has a very long tenure in the National Assembly and has also led the government, and the other, which is strong new, fresh, are building on negative measures against the state and against the government. I think that's some interesting knowledge. And I think that's what a lot of people in this country have come to realize. If I refer specifically to this matter or to this mantra regarding these missing signatures and those involved in these signatures, it is likely that it is difficult to ignore the report of the anti-corruption commission, we can look into the interim report or the final report. The interim and final report also differs for fourteen days. And it is interesting that we received this final report the night before or the day before the meeting in which we are dealing with this problem. However, this final report on page 13 is accompanied by a chronology of events that is quite similar to that of the chronology that contains the official note that was made in the National Assembly. And in this chronology of events, points two and three say that the list of initiators has not been counted; in point three it reads the same," has not been counted and has not been recorded." In short, we cannot accept the fact that the signatures were as many as were finally found when these things were counted on November 6th, but not necessarily. Even at no stage of this procedure, points 1-8 cover the National Assembly, whether or not all copies of these originals have been made. That's why it's hard to accuse anyone in this area. The Anti-Corruption Commission's report is partly biased because of what has been written in this chronology in the first eight points because it has explicitly concluded that signatures are not recorded because it has explicitly found that no one has counted these copies in eight stages of these proceedings, but the Anti-Corruption Commission has only expressed its suspicion that it is more likely that this error occurred at the Ministry of the Interior. It is to be seen that this difference between the interim report and the final report is designed to provide at least some basis for the interpellation of the applicants. Unfortunately, however, it is difficult to accept that, after all these findings, something has not been done in the previous stages, then at some intermediate stage we hang some key problem. That's incorrect. This is also the case with the finding of an information officer. This letter came substantially earlier, on December 12th, and in this too the findings are very similar, not chronologically written but textually summarises the same content. I think that everything that's going on around when someone needs to be hanged in every way is actually incorrect. If we're going to take some serious policy, if we're going to go with some responsible policy, then we have to operate on indisputable facts. Especially if we demand anything from anyone. How and what will happen next can only be predicted. You announced in the introductory debate that by voting on this interpretation, if the matter fails, the matter will not end. But if this is your primary work in this national council and this mandate, then I think the story is pretty much imported. The key things ahead of us are labour market reforms, we will probably consider in a short time, the key things ahead of us, the restructuring of the banking system and the Slovenian State Holding, the key things ahead of us, will also be the reform of justice and the health system and so on. If we in the National Assembly are going to deal so much with these minor things, then perhaps there is a great hope that someone will engage constructively in the preparation of reforms so that he can make his good proposals if he has them, there is no such thing. And that knowledge is crucial today. An extremely large engagement with a small matter and virtually no involvement, except for those related to the key issues, in key projects that are important for this country. I think that what I have just said is, in fact, a certificate of this mandate, there is some difference between the coalition and the opposition in this mandate. Unfortunately, there is no great hope that these things will change in the coming months. And that's sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I'm asking the minister if he wants a final explanation. Please, Minister Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you very much. It'll only take a long time. It won't be completely final, because we have plenty of time. Let me first explain, of course, when you spoke to Mrs Kociper, I hope he can hear me because I can't see her, about the obsolete hands. Now, I don't know if you've been cheating or not, but the law says exactly where the obsolete hands have expired, they've expired. In no case can you put responsibility on someone’s back, thus violating constitutional principles in this area. However, another truth is that in those cases where, at the time of the adoption and validity of the Bad Bank Act, the offences have not yet expired, that may be one day, two days, three days, five days or several months, these limitation periods are substantially prolonged. This means that every day when we miss this law when we do not adopt this law, every day we lose some of the alleged perpetrators of crimes that could have been processed if the law were in force if not, but not. That's how important this thing is. Otherwise, let me put it this way. First time. No one in this country cares if the signatures are gone. And it is absolutely right for all of us not only to imagine, but also to make sure that these signatures are found, or to establish, a direct responsibility, or so-called objective responsibility. Another time. All the institutions that have investigated this problem so far have said that if I cut to a few sentences, I will not really spend the whole time making administrative, technical and other mistakes both on the side of the National Assembly and on the side of the Ministry of the Interior. None of the institutes said there was a mistake either here or at the Ministry. No institute has ever confirmed that. Even more, both institutions explicitly stated that it was not possible to assert with certainty where the signatures had been lost. If I briefly summarize again, the event is critical 25th, 26th and I release 27th on 28th, because it's Sunday, I'm talking about October, and I'm going from 29th and 30th. All this time, it's legal time to check signatures. The deadline began on the 23rd and ended on the 30th. No one, not the President of the National Assembly, nor did I violate this with a law-abiding deadline. During this marriage period, more things have been done than at the Ministry of the Interior at any time with regard to the verification of such initiatives. Firstly, we had two initiatives, which had never happened before, and secondly, we were dealing at the same time with the electoral directories for the DKP presidential elections. The first initiative we started to check 25 something after 12 o'clock, that's Thursday, and we ended it on Friday. We also exercised control on Friday. The matter was signed by Mrs Brezigar, which is in accordance with the law, because I was not in Ljubljana. Where I was, he knows the leader of the parliamentary group who has all the documents because he's got them. We started checking the bad bank as well, and we checked one third of the signatures. Not anymore, because it was the end of time. We're done with the 26th. That's Friday. Then we also wrote a letter ready and did a so-called "print screen". You told me I knew then. Yes, of course, I was notified. And what's wrong here? But they also exercised control. This check was carried out because they exist between Saturday and Sunday, on Monday 29. On Monday 29 I signed the matter around 11:30 p.m. and arrived at the National Assembly on Tuesday at 2:30 p.m. You've told me it's too late, and I'm once again informing you that this is within the legal time limit, and I'm not agreeing to those theories immediately, and so on, because then I should take the matter right away. So much for this case. There was a lot of evidence to lead the police, a lot of evidence to suggest that the police don't trust you, that the police are listening to you, that you're afraid the police won't trust her until I'm there at the Ministry and so on and so forth. Very briefly with a few sentences. The police are an organ in the system, its operation is determined by law. There is also a certain relationship with the law between me and the police. It's strictly regulated by the law. Complements were adopted in 2002 with several articles setting out exactly the whole relationship. Whatever you're saying, whatever you're insinuating and everything else, you can check with the Police Act, see what I can do to the police and what I can't do to the police. But there is this fact: the police are autonomous, they are led by one of the most experienced people in the police force I've known since I was 16, who I know is a great leader, and I know that this police will lead, as I said, in an excellent way. There's no problem with that. As far as the relationship is concerned, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u256	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister has the floor, please hold individual talks in the lobby or listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you. As far as the relationship with me or the police is concerned, it's written down by law. I'm monitoring the police, and I can direct it. That's what the law says, and that's what I do. Of course, this does not apply to individual cases, this does not apply to individual cases, but in particular I am forbidden to direct the functioning of the police when the Attorney General does so. This also happened in a given case when the direction took place somewhere in the middle. As far as the police are concerned and its operation is concerned in the case of criminal investigations. Once again, the Members of the Group are not untouchable. Nowhere in the law does it say that Members should not be investigated, so this will continue until such a law. But it's true that you're making this a bigger problem than it was. In the case of another initiative, you mean anonymous, you're a criminal -- not a criminal -- you invited yourself, you even said, "In twenty minutes, be here." One criminalist came, the leader of the parliamentary group made this an international show and a Slovenian show because he said that criminals came and that they could not participate as if they had captured, detained or anything like half of the parliamentary group. Of course, that wasn't true. You invited yourself. There's a CSI here. So I don't take any readings into this account. There was a lot of evidence about demonstrations, police violence and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you're aware of what you're saying, who you're doing. We've got 89 cops down. That's the first one. Second. After the demonstrations in Maribor we did well, and this vast majority of the Slovenian public knows, and we have nothing to learn here. The police only act against violent individuals and nothing else. These violent individuals, whether it is a crime or a crime, are then handed over to prosecutors, investigative judges, the judiciary and in the final stages, many end up in detention. That's how it's gonna be in the future. But nothing is to be feared by all those demonstrators who demonstrate in a peaceful manner. We want to protect them exclusively and only to protect them. But I have to say again that I reject all words about police violence. Everything. You have to visit a police officer, and I'll be happy if any member of the opposition announces himself and says he wants to talk to a police officer, and you'll see what a damaged leg looks like when a cannon strike blows up on a damaged leg, and when you don't hear anymore, the doctors don't know if you'll ever hear it or not. On behalf of them, I call you, don't do this again. Let me conclude by thanking all the ministerial colleagues who have been here. I think I've counted all the ministers. In the morning, the opposition members' problem was that I was abandoned by ministerial colleagues, they said, and the Prime Minister. Now you could see they were all here, and I thank them. There have also been many secretaries of state, and I believe they have recognized the purpose of this interpretation. In particular, once again, the purpose of this interpretation is not to replace one minister – it is me. I don't care about that. I don't care about it. I don't care about it. I thank all the ministers, and also the Prime Minister, who has been here, who has some symbolism in this situation. And once again, it's not about knocking down one minister, one of the ministers who writes Gorenak, that's completely irrelevant. He can also sit there in the back row. It's more than that. Your goal was to stick a wedge in the coalition. And I believe that you have failed, gentlemen and lady from Positive Slovenia. Secondly, I believe that many people do not know, but some of you must know that you are performing some other tasks by filing an interpretation, that it is a matter of the government, a government that has finally succeeded after three years of borrowing loans and a life beyond the scope of putting Slovenia at least on the azimuth of a real journey. At least the azimuth is real today. With you, this azimuth wasn't real, and you know exactly where the country came from in three years of the left coalition. I believe you're taking many of the measures that this government is taking. One is a bad bank law. I told you why. These are your real goals. But the time that is coming, the last words, the time that will reveal your actions, will put them on the surface and show them in the right light. Thank you very much to all those who intend to support me. I thank all the Members who intend to support me and all those who have recognized the true aims of Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Replica, Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u259	I'm sorry you're all tired. I'm tired, too, but we've been seeing a lot of different interests about the bad bank for months now, so I think it's important that I answer that one more time. We do not agree with the way we find it expensive and unfair, the rehabilitation of the banking system, but we do not have any problems with clearing up who took and who approved the bad loans. And I will answer, Minister Gorenak, that it will be perfectly clear, and I am sure that the Madam Secretary of State can confirm that I am right about the obsolete deadlines. In criminal law, where the highest standards for the protection of human rights are in force, there is, under our law, Mrs Brezigar, but if that is not true, I will be amazed – according to our law, the statute of limitation is a substantive provision. In criminal law, the provisions applicable to the service of a criminal offence shall apply unless the new amended decisions are milder. I give away what you want it to be. I'm not asking you to excuse us that we have some interests we don't have. Our only interest is today, and it really doesn't matter, Minister. Our only interest today is to prove that someone will take political responsibility for the loss of citizens' referendum signatures, for interfering with their rights, constitutional and human rights. I've already said, several signs show that this responsibility must be assumed by the Minister of the Interior. However, if you believe that the President of the National Assembly must assume responsibility, that is also fine. Someone has to take responsibility for the lost signatures, and it can't be a courier, a cleaner or a repairman of photocopying machines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I ask the proposer or the representative of the proposer if he wants a word. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u261	First of all, I'm asking, is this the end of the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u262	In the course of your regular time, you are last in line, and then it will probably be a time-sharing if you want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u263	What matters to me is that I only want to say one thing if I answer what the minister himself said. Just two things, this is about the very investigation that was carried out in the parliamentary group when he mentions that I said, "come in 20 minutes or it won't be easy today." Let me finish why it was actually a problem to do this at that moment and not otherwise. Not because of the fact that Mrs Brunskola, Vice-President, chaired the meeting of the National Assembly at that time, but because a Member has left the National Assembly and I have made it very clear in the beginning whether all Members will be together or not. The other matter, which is very important, I will point out once again, is mainly that the Minister always wants to and in any way wants to hide behind the work of the police themselves. Today we are talking about the Minister's interpretation and responsibility regarding his objective responsibility. I am sorry that the Minister has seduced himself into this field, that he will simply search and, in some way, also use at the same time what is all the time, at least today I was hoping he would not do it, but of course he is still using this instrument, which is that all the time, he has just kept on warning and was on the border, in fact, the threat itself. He kept on warning us about what would happen to us and what could happen to us and what we should be afraid of. He has been dividing himself into a field all the time, and this has also turned out to be his true light, when we are talking all the time about the fact that the Minister does not carry out his basic mission, which he, as a minister, must actually do. If we expected anything from this minister, for the first time, we expected that in this country, which has an interior minister, we could feel safe, I'm afraid not. And more importantly, he always tries to go beyond his own powers, which he actually has with the law, with his prediction, guidance. In fact, he has become almost one predictor of the future of each individual before anything happens. I would conclude with this as far as this work is concerned, and I will do everything else in my closing speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I was going to suggest that, given that both of them, the representative of the proposer and the minister had already had a final say, I was going to appeal that we no longer apply for the rest of the time. In view of the fact that you have all received the word you wanted, because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm guessing you want to, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Secretary signed up with his hand, which means he'll get his word. Mr. Janko Weber. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u265	President, now I'm going to tell you that you've abused. I asked you specifically whether this was a final thought or a final speech that I have as my proposer, and you said that only if I wanted to answer anything else as my candidate. That is why I thought that I would be able to have a final thought as a proponent. I asked you a very special question. But now you've simply abused and you want all the time that I've really screwed up for the final thought to turn to the story that you're going to share the time. And it's unfair of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u266	Now you've abused a little. I asked you earlier if you wanted to speak at the end of the list and you said yes and you took the floor. And you got the word. I have now opened a debate or an additional debate after 5 minutes. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u267	I'm not done on a case-by-case basis. I'm sorry, President. Look, presidents, you know exactly what I've done with my final speech. Minister, when he started and you asked him a very special question, he said, "No, that's not the final speech yet." He made it very clear at the outset, because it was more than clear that we would still be discussing. That is why I felt that we have not yet reached this point of the closing speech. And it's really unfair of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u268	Are you done? Yeah. You also have a list of reported discussers. You're the last person on the list. And it says: Mr Jani Möderndorfer. And that's when you got your word and you could have a closing speech. I didn't tell you what kind of speech you have. Now I've opened the application again for the rest of the time. Two panellists and a Mr. Minister have applied. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. Allow me to react on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats myself, both on behalf of my colleague Tank and on behalf of Mr Minister. My colleague Tanko spoke about the fact that the opposition works only in this Parliament, or does not help to resolve matters and not discuss key issues, but we want to discuss interpretation. But I would like to remind you, first of all, that today we are not talking about completely normal interpretation, but about the loss of signatures or letters on which the signatures on which the electorate and the electorate could request a referendum. It was a violation of the constitutional right to decide whether or not people agree with a bad bank. This is a very serious infringement of the procedure which was initiated on the basis of the interest of the electorate and the electorate. Therefore, this interpolation, if it has already been submitted, is important for this reason because it has a very important content in its interpretation. But look, if you are already talking about the opposition wanting to discuss this only, I must remind you, when we are Social Democrats, six of us, seven of us were in the Chamber, discussing the Slovenian State Holding and the Bad Bank, then the coalition decided and voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that only once each Member can discuss the individual issue. I do not recall such a restriction in all my parliamentary practice here in this national assembly. But the restriction that the opposition is talking about a bad bank is a substantive debate in which there were no arguments by the coalition so that we could pair our debates, and you limited us. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to this and protest against such a simplification of understanding of the part of the opposition, which, lastly, has made very few amendments to the 2013 and 2014 budget on our part. But two were extremely important for us: to save public education, public higher education and to provide money for the nutrition of students, students and students. In order to achieve this goal, we have even been prepared to support the coalition, although we are aware that the budgets are very poor, which is also evidenced by the already forecasting of the balance that will increase the commitments in the budgets you have adopted. On the part of the Social Democrats, I must protest against such allegations, and I hope that we will never hear them again in Parliament, on the basis of the actions we have done so far. Mr Minister, when you say that you have finally broken some new ice with this government, some new direction, I must remind you, in 2004, Slovenian banks had 1.9 billion euro in deposits abroad, in 2008 you owed 13 billion banks and the Slovenian economy. You have managed to spend 15 billion on the Slovenian economy and banks in four years. And look what the problem is and why we're here today when we're talking about interpretation, about a referendum on a bad bank. For a simple reason: at the time, the policy should be aware that abroad is inviting both our banks and the economy with cheap credits for a simple reason, they knew that the global economic crisis would take place and the most credits were rented abroad in 2007 and 2008. In 2007 8.9 billion and in 2008 almost 13 billion, Minister! By then, you knew it was going to be an economic crisis. But if you did not know, it was an irresponsible act or a great ignorance. And the government that came after you has reduced the external debt from 13 billion to 8.8 billion — by 4 billion! We've reduced our debt abroad by 4 billion. And when we talk today about how you're solving this problem, you want to sell out both the banks and all the capital that this country has to foreign people. It is therefore an organised sale of state property and also a loss of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in the government in which you participate. And when you say that you are an insignificant minister, look, Mr Gorenak, then it would be better if you were to step down right at the beginning of today's debate and not waste your time if you were an insignificant minister in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u270	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u271	Dear Minister! All day long you have not really found out what an objective responsibility is, even though you know what an objective responsibility is all the time. I sincerely hoped that you would take at least one step further from what your minister had announced, what he had to do and what ethics was to give a big message. In this country, several ministers have resigned because of their objective responsibilities. One of them was Mr Žerjav, who resigned because of the interference you yourself have used in a beautiful case. I must say, you have chosen the worst case for your resignation. For one simple reason, because I can only say that Mr Žerjav did not offer a resignation at the time, because he would feel guilty about the composition of the wrong mixture for that obstacle, but actually resigned for one simple reason, which is that it was really a scandalous event from his department, not because there would be evidence of his guilt that you are referring to today. Secondly, at that time your former Transport Minister, Bozič, also resigned, with whom you participated in a coalition that resigned due to a railway accident. Certainly not because someone would prove to him that he's guilty of anything on this railroad. Thirdly, he resigned, if you recall, also Minister Bizjak, a member of the SKD, then a party, because of some RMB action by members of the MNZ abroad. This derogation was a major stunt for the entire Slovenian public, which was also assessed by responsible and ethical conduct. And colleagues from New Slovenia, who today refer to some evidence, cannot make this comparison today. All those who have been in politics for too long, however, remember from 1994 the case of the resignation of Justice Minister Miha Kozinac, who resigned because he signed a mountain of papers, stacks of papers, contracts, as you mentioned today, and did so every day, and signed essentially when loans were shared, ministers, employees and what I know who else is R+3. You probably remember this case. And, of course, he hasn't been proven to be responsible for those loans yet. However, he resigned without interpretation because there was an objective responsibility of the minister for what happened when he was Minister of Justice. And because the chairman of the commission was with the government, not the Ministry. What you have accomplished today, or are trying to explain why you will not give up, is that you have one of your own agendas that you have drawn. Your Prime Minister, your client colleague in this national council said it was an unprecedented scandal. It wasn't until he said it that you all started saying it. But don't take a step further than this scandal. And so that, as you are always used to in your client, you can balance on one side or the other, you immediately miss photocopying signatures — not those that have disappeared, but those who have been announced and told that we will understand what we are talking about. I regret that Members and Members of Parliament, those who will support you today, remain a minister and continue with this work, which I must say you have not justified your intentions. If they support this so that you can continue, the question is only one. What is most important to me is that we are actually deciding here today only one thing, not to answer the question of whether we are fighting for the rule of law, but we are simply talking about political responsibility. That is why we are really deciding here today whether we are going to live in a regime or whether we are going to have a rule of law. Minister, you still have a chance before we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Minister Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u274	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u275	Absolutely. Look, Mr. Weber, you're a master of economics. I hope that you will be able to calculate something more now that you are selling numbers so beautifully, which is also repeated by the person who said in 1991 that the Slovenians will eat grass. For the first time, the following must be said. In 2004, we adopted the government and handed it over in 2008. The State of the Republic of Slovenia has never had a minus in the state treasury in Slovenia alone. She always had a minus in the state cash register, we were the only government we gave up in addition. Of course, you say some graph, and I have to tell people now, not you, because it doesn't matter to you, because you're going to do it 10 more times. If it's stupid to talk or fool people, then you do. You are, of course, talking about credits or talking about so-called general, public debt, where your credit, my credit, credit to your neighbor or my neighbor, credit to Gorenje, credit to some construction company, credit to all. And the government has no influence on that. The government doesn't decide on your loan, the government doesn't decide on my loan, the government doesn't decide on your loan or my neighbor's loan, or on what goes to Gorenje, or on who goes to the SCT, or who goes to the Conquest or wherever else. The government doesn't decide on these loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u276	Mr. Secretary, please talk about the interpretation. Even if someone, I understand, has gone by, but please talk about the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u277	That's what Mr. Weber said, and that's why I had to answer him. Don't say the government did it. That's not what the government did. As for Mr Möderndorfer, it is a shame to lose words. At least as far as the answer is concerned, it's a shame to lose words. You listed some ministers who resigned for objective reasons. Mr Bizjak has resigned because it has been proven that some police officers of the special unit have gone across the border, they have been robbed there and arrested by the Austrian police, all those who have not fled. Then we had these and different procedures. So the minister resigned because his subordinates made a mistake. Mr. Kozinc, I don't know why he gave up X years ago, I don't know, R + 3, I don't know if he signed himself a loan or just R + 3 for an apartment or a minister or someone, but I know he gave up. As far as I am concerned, once again, the problem that we have been dealing with today has been the problem of two institutions, the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior. Three institutes have found that they cannot determine whether they are here or at the Ministry of the Interior. But today you failed to break the coalition. And that's good for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u278	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on interpolation. Interpellations propose to the assembly that, following a discussion, it adopt the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, express its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Vinko Gorenaku. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The beginning of the vote. I'm calling off the vote. I'm asking what the problem was, Mrs. Tavsh. Please check the voting devices again and see if you have a suitable light on your keyboard. Did you check it out? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Vinko Gorenaku, was not voted untrustworthy. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move to a vote of the assembly on matters dealt with on Monday, 17 December 2012. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications in the framework of the regular procedure All of you who have participated in today's agenda item 1 thank you for your cooperation, and I wish the Minister a successful follow-up. As it is said, in the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications in the framework of a regular procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. 2012. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 54. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to the same Article 54. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. We were just before the fact that the coalition failed so much to support the opposition's amendment, which adequately addresses the process of prolonging media houses, and we are also pleased that the coalition has actually made so much effort and tried to form its proposal, probably also because it does not need to be supported by the opposition amendment. Let me tell you again that, as the Group of Social Democrats, we will vote in favour of the amendment of the coalition primarily for the reason that we actually want to help all those involved in media activities, and we want to prevent a situation from occurring when someone misses the deadline for the extension of the operation and thus loses forever the right to engage in this activity. Of course, it is an economic activity, it is also a job and it does not matter how this can happen. We will support your amendment, even though you were unable to support ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to explain their vote anymore and that is why we are voting. We're voting. I conclude the vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 57. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're voting. I conclude the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, 73 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We decide on the amendment of Article 203 of the SD Group. We're voting. I conclude the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the representative of the Government, as the proposer of the bill, proposed that the parliamentary basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly be carried out at this meeting in the third reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 2. (The vote was 74.)(against 2.) I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Thursday 20th. 12. 2012, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. (The vote was 81.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. 2012. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SLS and NSI to Article 5. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 1. (The vote was 80.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment was adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the representative of the Government, as the proposer of the bill, proposed that the assembly, under the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, be moved to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1. (The vote was 79.)(against 1.) The decision is adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 20 December, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša to the question of mags. Majde Potrat related to actions following demonstrations and protests. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you. I have already mentioned in the previous debate that by voting this motion for a decision, the National Assembly can enable itself to discuss the events we have witnessed recently. This would ultimately be accountable to the State, to all those who are gathering, and also to all those who must intervene in the protests. I think there's a lot of questions. But what I could hear in the Prime Minister's reply was more of a message that his thought was that everyone should accept everything and that what was actually happening in society was just confirming his policy and his government's policy. I therefore think it would be good to hold this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you very much. We're voting on the proposal. The beginning of the vote. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenka Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janš to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek concerning the sale of capital investments by the State. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Gaspar Gaspar, Mr Mišić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on public administration recruitment and state-owned enterprises. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Ms Kociper's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to Mrs Maša Kociper's question on the police investigation in the National Assembly. We're voting on the proposal. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Mr Hercegovac will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, to the question of mags. Lejle Hercegovac in connection with the implementation of the Government's normative programme of work within the Ministry of Health. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Pavlič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mags. Radovan Žerjava, on Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on the South Stream pipeline route. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 to 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožef Kavticnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turk, to the question of Mr Jožef Kavticnik's question on the integration of public institutions for education and education in Slovenia. I apologize, I have information that such a question has been and so has your proposal. I therefore put to the vote this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members, 33 to 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Stanka Stepišnika will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Joyful Žereva on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Mag. A Jew, please, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say why I will vote in favour of this issue. When I listened to the debate today by the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Police, who spoke more about the state of the economy in finance than he did, I hear that the Minister of Agriculture, no, not the Minister of Agriculture, is walking and explaining what this agriculture is, I would like to hear whether the ministers of our government actually understand what they are responsible for. And I would also like to ask Minister Žerjev if he even knows that he is already being thrown out of the government when quite others are talking about his area, as well as about the agricultural field. So this debate is going to be terribly interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u284	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 to 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that there will be no debate because the decision has not been adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Velinje, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, and the Minister for Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, to Mr Jožet Velinje's question regarding the exhaustion of state-owned electricity companies. Mr. Jože the Great, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. My question was about an agreement between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Ministry of Finance and the Union of Workers of Energy Activities of Slovenia. The agreement was also made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which agreed with this content. My dilemma is still the following. Despite the Government's argument that the proposal is only a framework to be used by the competent minister as a proposal for the sale of the shares of energy companies, it is unreasonable and illogical to propose the sale of its most profitable work, namely HSE, which is also the owner of the Drava power plants, Gen-energy, which is co-owner of the Krško and Geoplin nuclear power plant, which will be the half-owner of the company that will run the South Stream through Slovenia. According to Minister Cernač, HSE had over EUR 360 million unallocated profits over the past years, with over €60 million in Eles and over €40 million in Gen-energy, and according to media reports, €97 million. These companies should be provided with transparent and responsible management, for which the AUKN is still responsible. However, the capital investment management strategies and the annual management plan have not been adopted by the Government or the National Assembly. I will, of course, support the proposal for a general debate on this issue, and I suggest that you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members or Members present, with 33 votes against 46. (For the vote was 33.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Mrs Bikar's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to Mrs Alenka Bikar's question on the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of the Law on Public Collections. Voice explanation, Mrs. Alenka Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote in favour, but on this occasion perhaps I would like to appeal primarily to the coalition members, but this time only to press for, because the Minister himself, who is still Minister after today's interpretation, said he needs more time to explain this subject, and let us give him this opportunity and have a wider debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members or Members present, 34 votes against 46. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Gaspar Gašpar Mišić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on investment in the development project of the TEN-T trans-European network. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Vice President. Why I suggested that a debate be held in the National Assembly in response to the Minister's response on investments in infrastructure projects, specifically the TEN-T project, which connects the Baltic-Jadran, because Slovenia has already hidden unknown reasons from me in 2006-2007 and because Slovenia, unlike neighbouring countries, is not prepared, is somehow in the process of preparing ideas and projects and neighbouring countries are already thinking harder and working on the ground, with the indisputable fact that the projects of our three neighbours are much more ambitious and better set up than our own. The neighbouring countries are aware that there will be no progress and growth without investment in infrastructure. It is true that today is a difficult time where reforms and savings are at the top of the agenda, but the fact that we need to invest in strategically important infrastructure projects in order to start up the economy and maintain global competitiveness, and the current situation in our country unfortunately shows that we will not be competitive in the future, even in our region, in a global sense. Dearly beloved, if anyone is troubled by doubt as to whether they are in our country [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u290	Can I have a moment of silence, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u291	At the Adriatic-Baltic Circle, between the Alps and the Balkans, it really pays to invest in logistics to see what neighbors are doing, how many billions of euros will the Germans invest in their already developed rail network and what Obama's "new deal" is going to the US. [[...]] If we do not connect and integrate into our common European space, if we miss the construction of railways and everything that is actually necessary for the progress and development of the economy in Slovenia, we will go back. Then we can forget about economic growth. If we're just going to save, we're just going to go back a little bit further. It is therefore essential that we hold a debate and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 Members and Members voted against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The professional services have warned me that there has indeed been a mistake in voting or in defining Mr Jožef Kavtičnik's question on the basis of the proposal I have prepared. For this reason, I am revoking the previous vote and, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Kavtičnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a scalp: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žiga Turka, to the question of Mr Jožef Kavtičnik in relation to standards in kindergartens. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, explanation of voice. I apologize to you on behalf of everyone, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u293	I accept your apology. Thank you. Your Honor! As you know, the Ministry predicts changes in standards in kindergartens and is therefore predicting a general sentence. Increasing the number of children in kindergartens is a significant burden on work and thus poorer conditions for children at this age who can experience and gain unfathomable problems, various phobias, neurosis, which cannot be avoided in any way. I therefore asked the Minister whether he had obtained the opinion of certain professional, independent groups of educators, sociologists, psychologists, pediatricians, etc. The Minister said that the opinions of these independent experts were shared, which means that he did not have an adequate response to what was involved in this amendment, except that it was a matter of saving. Your Honor! All those who have been and are involved in working with young people or living with young people are always saying that young people are our greatest wealth. And please don't make this step and don't let it happen. Therefore, it is right for the Minister to explain here all these professional opinions that we will then better decide whether or not to make these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u295	It's late, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe we're all in a hurry to get home. Look, the union is predicting a strike because of a misunderstanding by the government or the minister. Today we have been discussing interpolation, discussing and proposing to discuss the pressing issue here in the National Assembly. Perhaps this can help to reduce the dissatisfaction that there will be no strike. You talked so much about how much everything went today with the debate on interpretation, how much time and how much money. We don't want to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, consider whether we are so wise that we can discuss a problem that we know for sure, or imagine, that a sentence can happen, and we do not want to talk about it. That is why I think it is good that we are discussing this here, to discuss when it is time, not after, say, the forces of people on the road or wherever they force us into this debate. And there's something else. How many mothers and fathers will there be who will be ill-willed because they have no children to give? And that is why it would be wise to think about having a discussion and to do something for the good of the people who expect us to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-18-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Mrs Alenka Pavlič's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on public transport subsidies for pupils and students. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 9th session, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
