ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the 7th regular session. Today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Borut Pahor, mag. Dejan Židan and Roman Jakič. Nicely greeted! We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say, a bill on amendments to the International Protection Act after a reduced procedure. The proposal was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I now give the floor to the State Secretary of Mags. Robert Marolt. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed amendment to the Law on International Protection is intended to supplement it by transposing an optional provision of Directive 2005/85/EC, which would establish a basis for determining the age of unaccompanied minors in the case of home age. There are several reasons for the abolition of free legal aid at first stage. The main reasons on which the proposal to limit free legal assistance and the support of refugee advisers in judicial proceedings before the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court of Slovenia in international protection proceedings are, above all, existing projects already carried out by NGOs and co-financed by the European Refugee and Budget Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also important that non-governmental organisations remain present in an asylum home and continue to provide legal advice and information to applicants, which has so far proved to be very good and efficient or more appropriate than through additional refugee advisers. Finally, the reason for this proposal is also in the public financial situation in our country. The Law on International Protection is also being amended and supplemented in order to clarify the interdepartmental powers in the implementation of certain provisions and the existing legal text of the relevant editorial correction. The amendment introduces the possibility of establishing a medical examination to determine the age of a unaccompanied minor. The proposal for a solution follows the provisions of the Procedural Directive, which lays down in Article 17, paragraph 5, the procedure for determining the age of a unaccompanied minor. Since 2010 there has been a significant increase in the number of applicants for international protection who claim to be unaccompanied minors and do not have any documents to confirm their age, their age, and their age, the procedure for determining the age of unaccompanied minors has been introduced. The proposal for a new law therefore introduces a procedure for determining the age of applicants who claim, at the time of submission, that minors are unaccompanied, which is introduced by all other Member States of the European Union other than Slovenia and Greece. It is to be noted that the age-setting procedure by medical examination will be determined only and exclusively in cases where there is doubt as to the actual age of the applicant. At the same time, we stress that this proposal does not set out a concrete way, a specific method of determining age, but merely provides for a medical examination. By what method and by what standards age will be determined is the matter of an expert and his ethics, i.e. exclusively at the professional level, with the consent of both the minor and his legal representative to carry out the procedure. The amendments adopted in the Home Affairs Committee include some open questions from NGOs and some comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Dear Members and honourable Members! We propose that you adopt the relevant amendment to the Law on International Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs as the working body of the mother. The rapporteurs or presidents of Mrs Maša Kociper, as I see, are not in the Chamber, so we will skip it. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. Children without a escort are one of the most vulnerable groups in Europe, as they have also left their home country deprived of assistance, protection and protection by parents or other guardians. The Republic of Slovenia is a transit country for most unaccompanied children who leave soon after arrival and continue their journey to the countries of Northern and Western Europe. The reasons why they leave their country are different: because of the great poverty and the lack, the inability to find work and to study, military conflicts, persecution, life threats and other reasons. The arrivals of unaccompanied minors from third countries are not a temporary phenomenon but a long-term feature of migration flows in the European Union. Last year, 358 people applied for international protection in Slovenia and 104 for international protection in the first 6 months of this year. Since mid-2010 in the Republic of Slovenia, there has been an increase in the number of applicants for international protection who claim to be unaccompanied minors. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection establishes a mechanism to determine the actual age of applicants for international protection who claim to be minors. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed solution is good and suitable for the situation, because in the vast majority of applicants there is doubt about their actual age, and it is particularly problematic that only few possess documentary evidence to prove their personal data. In addition, Slovenia is one of the few Member States of the European Union that so far did not know the possibility of a review order to determine the age of the unaccompanied minor in case of doubt at his actual age. The reasons why adults claim to be under 18 are obvious. Unaccompanied minors are classified as vulnerable categories of persons in need of adequate reception, care and treatment and are also assigned a legal representative. In practice, this has so far meant that adults have also been placed in accommodations intended for unaccompanied minors, and that there has been a greater possibility of damaging the development and safety of those applicants who are actually unaccompanied minors and the risk of trafficking in human beings. In addition, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the age of unaccompanied applicants can also affect the mere substantive decision on an application for international protection. While the bill abolishes the right to free legal aid and the support of the Refugee Adviser in the first stage proceedings. The reason for the abolition of free legal aid is substantial – the state’s state of public finances while at the same time providing legal assistance to applicants for international protection to NGOs who are present at the asylum home every day, we believe that their situation will not deteriorate. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u5	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Under the Convention on the Status of Refugees, a person who has left the territory of his country of origin shall be deemed to be a refugee, for reasons of legitimate fear that, due to his race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or certain political belief, he or she is not in a position to be protected by his or her country of origin. A person like that needs and deserves protection. In accordance with this Convention, the Republic of Slovenia also offers protection to these persons under the International Protection Act. These persons are granted a number of rights, such as information needed to facilitate the inclusion in Slovenian society, accommodation in accommodation centres or in an asylum home, cash compensation for private accommodation, healthcare, Slovenian language courses, integration assistance programmes, single state aid and could also be listed. The Law on International Protection has so far provided all applicants with free legal assistance throughout the protection procedure, i.e. when the applicant submits an application for international protection in the presence of an appropriate translator or interpreter. Slovenia does not currently have a greater influx of refugees than in the 1990s, when the refugee problem was particularly acute due to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In recent years, between 200 and 300 applications have been submitted annually, while there are barely 10 % or less favourably resolved requests. The majority of the applications submitted were therefore rejected, despite the fact that the applicants had regulated free legal aid during the whole procedure. The narrowing of the right to free legal aid is so logical and, on the other hand, these forms of legal aid will still be granted to those applicants who are actually entitled to refugee status or international protection and will enforce such status in proceedings before the courts. We stress that international organisations, in particular the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and NGOs, play a major role in addressing refugee issues. In Slovenia, the Jesuit Refugee Association plays an important role in this field of refugee issues. This organisation has been providing assistance to all refugees for the past 10 years, regardless of race and religion, with particular emphasis on assistance to vulnerable groups – especially children without adult escorts. However, abuse is taking place in this area. In recent years, there has been a doubling of applicants without personal documents and without accompanying adults who claim to be minors and, in fact, this is not the case, since they often turn out to be over 30 years of age in the proceedings. In order to determine the age of applicants, it is therefore necessary to cooperate with experts in the medical profession. Our legislation has not been regulated so far and it is therefore necessary to amend the law. However, the legislator's task is to regulate the legal basis for preventing such abuses in a way that other European countries have incorporated such safeguards into the system. By amending this law, we will continue to maintain an adequate level of rights of refugees with international protection in accordance with international conventions and European directives and allow for the acquisition of the legal status of refugees or persons with international protection to those who are actually entitled to this right. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u7	On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the word of Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection is controversial for Positive Slovenia at three points. First time. Introduction of a basis for determining unaccompanied minors. Another time. Elimination of free legal assistance and support for first-degree refugee advisers. And the third time. Delete the possibility of submitting an application for international protection at the diplomatic and consular offices of Slovenia in third countries. In general, we are opposed to proposals that will reduce rights for the weak, and even in one point we are opening wide opportunities for abuses and violations of fundamental human rights. It is particularly worrying that the drafter of the law on the committee responsible did not present any valid argument for such a change. When the legal aid is lifted at first instance, it is intended to be one of the reasons for saving. At least that's how it was originally explained. Calculations based on the assumption that 350 asylum seekers would be asked for assistance do not, of course, hold, as the figures show that the number of asylum seekers per year is falling and that this number is actually a phantom. On a concrete question why the Government is in fact abolishing aid at the first stage, we have received the answer that this is a substantive reason. This task is expected to be performed perfectly by NGOs, explained the State Secretary. We cannot accept such substantive reasons, as NGOs are competing for funding in individual projects when the project is over, and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which the coalition has obviously deliberately overlooked when I summarize just a few warnings. [[...]] The continuous amendment of legislation on free legal aid is controversial in terms of equality before the law. One marriage introduced it, the other took it again, the third not, the novel gave it, and now we're shutting it down again in an extremely short time. This shows that, in fact, there are no reasonable reasons for such acts, and it is also stated in the Constitutional Court's decision that this is a matter of extremely complex and complex legal proceedings, especially for minors. It is a particularly sensitive group and vulnerable group, not only among applicants, but of course at all, and our Constitution provides special constitutional security and protection for children. Finally, asylum seekers are generally ill-educated people, and justice is, as it were, complicated. While, at the second stage, where the Government retains free legal aid, they no longer have the right to propose new evidence and facts. Free legal aid is therefore particularly meaningful at the first stage. Medical examinations of persons suspected of not being minors, although they claim otherwise, are particularly problematic. We will talk more about this in the debate, but let me point out that our concerns are both health and legal. We don't know what methods the doctors are supposed to use. In some European countries, doctors have even rejected this finding. They therefore rejected the task of carrying out the so-called age survey. At the same time, methods are unreliable. However, for invasive methods such as X-rays, a person must give consent, which is not valid if we do not inform the person of what such an examination means to him first and what the consequences may be. Such reviews interfere with human physical and mental integrity, which is once again a constitutional category. The proposed articles are therefore not adequately defined, as the Office of the Ombudsman also pointed out. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we strongly reject the proposed law. Its purpose, as it appears, and as we have heard on the committee responsible, is not clear or proposed, it has overlooked the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, and at some points it is even dangerously approaching to cause constitutional interference with the rights guaranteed, and most importantly, it denies assistance to the most vulnerable at the level that is most important to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u9	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Ivan Pišek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you, President. A nice welcome to you all, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has proposed to the National Assembly that due to less difficult changes following a rapid procedure, it should consider the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. The proposed material is intended to supplement the law by transposing an optional provision of Directive 2005/85 to determine the age of unaccompanied minors in the event of doubt at the actual age. As a result of the public financial situation, it is also proposed to abolish free legal aid and support for refugee advisers in the first stage proceedings. It is also proposed to delete the possibility of filing an application for international protection at the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia in third countries, thereby depriving the diplomatic consular network of its competence in third countries. Furthermore, given the experience of the existing provisions in practice, it is not possible to implement them at all. The proposal for amendments to the introduction of age-setting procedures for unaccompanied minors introduces this amendment because, since 2010, there has been a significant increase in the number of applicants for international protection who claim to be unaccompanied minors and do not have any documents to confirm their age, so this definition of age by medical examination is introduced. In Article 15, a unaccompanied minor shall be classified as vulnerable persons with special needs who are provided with special care, care and treatment. In view of the guarantees given to unaccompanied minors as a vulnerable category of persons, the situation of such a minor brings various benefits and additional obligations compared to the treatment of full-year applicants for international protection. Given that, in practice, in most cases, there is doubt as to the actual age of the applicant, since these applicants are already acting older than they claim, so far such applicants have been considered minors in the absence of adequate levers to determine the actual age. This resulted in the greatest damage to actual minors, as adults who merely claimed to be minors were also accommodated in accommodations for unaccompanied minors. In view of the above, as unaccompanied minors, the principles of the child’s greatest benefit are also addressed. The proposal therefore introduces a procedure for determining the age of applicants who claim that minors are unaccompanied upon application. It is to be noted, however, that the age-setting procedure by medical examination will be determined only in cases where there is doubt as to the actual age. A medical examination to determine the age of an alleged unaccompanied minor may be carried out only with the consent of the minor and his legal representative. If the minor and his legal representative refuse a medical examination for no reasonable reason, the unaccompanied minor shall be treated as a full-year-old. Health reasons will be considered in particular as grounds for rejecting the medical examination. It should also be pointed out that the application of a person who has applied as a unaccompanied minor and refused a medical examination should not be rejected solely because of this fact. With the amendment to abolish the possibility of filing an application for international protection at diplomatic and consular offices in third countries, it is proposed to delete the possibility of submitting an application to the DKPs of the Republic of Slovenia in third countries, thereby depriving the competence of the diplomatic and consular network. Moreover, given the experience of the existing provisions, it is not even possible to implement them now. The possibility of submission is purely a national practice which does not have a basis in other EU legislative acts, so the applicant has also examined the possibility of submitting an application for international protection in the DKPs in a comparative manner and has found that these options are not provided in their legislation, for example, by Germany, Finland, the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. Sweden, for example, has it, but such requests are automatically rejected. Statistics show that in 2005 there was no request, no such procedure. In 2006, four were launched in Skopje, one in Zagreb, one in Zagreb, one in Zagreb, 2009 was really seven, 2010 was none, 2011 was one and also this year none. This also in practice proves that there is no demand for such aid and that training of employees at diplomatic and consular offices is unnecessary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will confirm the amendment of the law on international protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u11	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Let me begin by saying that Members and Members of the Social Democrats are putting two amendments to this law, unfortunately only to what could be tabled, it is said that medical examinations, and from the adoption of these two amendments, it is also up to us to decide what our final decision will be, which will be so much more negative, that it is true not to support this law, since the first removal of free legal aid for the Social Democrats is unacceptable. Let me tell you some facts. Migration is part of the modern world. Fortunately, some migrations can be decided by having all the legal documents regulated and not forced into this situation, and some are decided on migration due to a wide variety of unacceptable living conditions. And informed citizens and citizens we advocate the fact that those people who have not been found guilty in impossible living conditions need to be able to make the way as easy as possible to regulate their status. That is why we have always advocated such solutions, which have sometimes been different from those proposed by the government, and as either coalition or opposition MPs with the amendments, we have tried to reach a solution in this direction that I am talking about. It is also not possible to rely solely on blind monitoring of directives. Do we not hear in Parliament so many times that we must be sovereign, that we cannot follow blindly? And today we are deciding on an optional provision of a directive imposing medical examinations if there is doubt as to the age of a person who is declared a minor, so this is an optional provision of the directive. So the argument is that if a large majority of countries have such an instrument in place, we do not, it cannot be acceptable because each country sets civilisation standards for itself. These are, however, in the European Union, that when the level of protection of human rights is higher than the minimum standard laid down by the European institutions, national legislation is applicable. National legislation changes only in cases where it is below a minimum standard. And I would like to remind you of this when we decide whether it has already been passed in this law, so that we can end free legal aid at the first stage. What can Members and Members of Parliament do if we want to do so, I should like to tell you in case the amendment of the 2010 amendment of the Law on International Protection. At that time, the government also proposed the abolition of free legal aid. And you can verify this from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, how she answered my question when I warned and reminded the Ombudsman about the frequent change in international protection and related legislation, that this causes a very large gap in legal certainty, if we do not respect some stability, stability in the legal order. And that's when she warned us that the Members had been amended by the amendment. Well, I'm going to read you here from the magnetogram only that paragraph of Cornelia Marzel, this is the Deputy Ombudsman, who says, "then the Ombudsman's consideration of the regulation of free legal aid. We believe that free legal aid for applicants should certainly be provided at the first stage. We have stated in our explanation that the gravity of the procedure is right before the authorities of the first stage, it is a special administrative procedure, and we believe that, given the knowledge of this procedure by public officials, applicants should have free legal assistance provided here." That is also what the High Commissioner for Refugees, who supported us, and also NGOs, thought. Social Democrats are not counted on the left and the right, but we consider them to be important, regardless of their provenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u13	On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Every minute, eight people around the world must leave everything behind to escape war, persecution, and intimidation. Many refugees must decide between bad and worse. Slovenia, as a signatory to the Geneva Convention and a member of the European Union, is obliged to provide international protection to such individuals. According to a survey by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for Central Europe, Slovenia has significantly fewer asylum seekers than any other European country, as well as a minimum percentage of recognised refugee status. Most asylum seekers seeking safe havens come from Afghanistan, Georgia, Iraq, Pakistan, Serbia and Turkey. Slovenia has already provided such persons with an effective asylum system. An asylum system that operates quickly and effectively, which is fair and allows any asylum applicant who really needs international protection to be granted refugee status. Such a system also prevents those who do not need such protection from benefiting from the system. That is to say, Slovenia has shown this since the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when we hosted up to 60,000 refugees. With the proposed amendments to the amendment of the Law on International Protection, we follow the Directive of the European Union and introduce the grounds for determining the age of unaccompanied minors in case of doubt in the actual age. In addition, we are introducing some other changes that have proved necessary in practice. The proposed abolition of the right to free legal aid and the support of first-degree asylum advisers is questionable. It is in this area that non-governmental organisations implementing a number of aid programmes are very helpful to the country. Among them is the Legal Information Centre, which provides legal advice and information to international protection seekers as well as to persons who are granted protection. With his permanent office he is also present at the Asylum House in Ljubljana, as well as within individual projects at the border and at the Centre for Foreigners in Postojna. In the context of its activities, it shall provide assistance and advice to applicants on the crossing of the State border and also on the possibility of submitting a request for protection or for an effective and fair administrative procedure. As many as 80% of all beneficiaries or applicants benefit from their legal aid and are satisfied with it. And that help remains. Public money for these projects is provided, which can also be seen from the 2013 draft budget, where it is right under the heading for international protection and integration of the Ministry of the Interior of the planned more resources than in the previous year. It makes no sense for such aid to be financed from two bags in the future. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that no one is a refugee of his own volition, so each country must provide all necessary protection to this most vulnerable group of persons. Slovenia already has this area legally regulated and through its institutions it provides a high level of legal and social assistance to international protection seekers. We are confident that the proposed amendments will not affect the effectiveness of the procedure for granting international protection, so we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u15	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Your Honor! As a result of events at world sites, we are witnessing increasing migration of people looking for a better future beyond the borders of their country. With an increased number of applicants for international protection, we also meet on Slovenian soil. The Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that the highest value of the child's benefits must be pursued by countries in their territory, regardless of where the children come from, and regardless of whose nationality they have. And just the changes in the law on international protection are this step in this direction: to protect the weakest, no matter where they come from. All too often, some existing systems, which did not contain protective devices to determine the actual age of refugees, allowed adults who claimed to be minors to be minors, did not use them to establish contact with children in an asylum home and to exploit children for various immoral and criminal purposes. In law, we often place different rights on the scale. We weigh and think in which direction is the fairest and fairest way to overstretch the scale. But there is no weighting in the case of the child’s benefit. In this case, we sometimes reach out to a certain right that we would not otherwise intervene if it were not for the issue of child integrity. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the concerns of NGOs regarding the amendments to this law, but we believe that some measures must be taken to prevent the abuse of regulations and prevent the creation of a new criminal space, rules that will protect children's lives at the same time. In a democratic country such as Slovenia, which respects and cooperates with non-governmental organisations and allows their existence to exist through various mechanisms, as a sign of democracy and progress, there is now an opportunity for NGOs to participate in the creation of a society of solidarity and the future. In the field of refugee counselling, the country also opens a partnership with NGOs to address this issue and, by leaving the field of advice and assistance, gives recognition to NGOs for their expertise, engagement and human sense. The following change, which raised various concerns, was the introduction of a medical examination to determine age. We have an attack on the human body to determine certain facts in our system. For example, a mandatory medical examination prior to the first job, on the basis of which the individual’s ability to work is determined. In this case, too, there are certain interventions where the suspension of a medical examination means a loss of the possibility of obtaining a particular right. That's the right to work. However, there is no doubt that any intervention in the body is carried out only in extremely urgent cases where there is no other method, that the examination must be clearly described in advance and that physical and mental integrity must be fully respected in the course of the intervention. The principle of the child’s benefit must be the highest guidance in any decision we make, regardless of whose children are, and no matter where they come from. We will therefore support the amendment of the Law on International Protection in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We have two amendments. The debate will be held on the basis of a review of 24. Ten. 2012. First, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of Article 6 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I'll just open the application. Please sign up for the debate. Mrs. Alenka Bikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u18	Hello! On the Internal Policy Committee, where we discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection, three major issues were raised. Firstly, the abolition of free legal aid at the first stage for refugees, then the introduction of a procedure to determine the age of unaccompanied minors and the deletion of the possibility of filing an application for international protection at the diplomatic consular offices of Slovenia in third countries. The government therefore notes that the number of applicants for assistance is expected to increase with us, especially those who claim to be minors, and therefore introduces a procedure whereby the age of these minors will be determined. What kind of procedure is this supposed to be, otherwise it is not specified exactly, so it would be some kind of medical examination. At the same time, free legal aid in the first stage is abolished. So I can’t imagine how these minors should even know what we expect of them, what we want, what our options are, or how they can defend themselves. This right has already been abolished once, and also in the time of the Janša government, it was then reinstated and is now being abolished. We don't know why it was canceled for the first time. The reasons were not mentioned at the time. Why now? The Minister states that this is a superstandard and that he will not support the superstandard. Colleagues from the coalition have repeatedly said on the committee that the economic situation is difficult, that every euro must be looked after. How much money is it actually for? In Positive Slovenia, we have tabled an amendment on the working body, stating that, assuming such applicants were 350 per year, this amount would amount to EUR 56,000. Then our colleague is a magician. Mrs Potrata has fixed and said that this is still a significantly smaller amount, about EUR 11 000 200, because most of this money comes from European funds. It's $11,000, 200. Or, if possible, my fellow Member, Mr Puksic, would kindly cancel another trip next year. Representatives of NGOs also stress that free legal aid at first stage actually reduces further costs at second level and increases quality. So much for money. Ms Brezigareva, State Secretary, spoke on the Committee about the substantive reasons why NGOs should do this job well, that it is well visited, that the project is well-run, that it is of quality. Yeah, great. He's holding it all together. But what will happen if we continue in this saving spirit and run out of money for these projects? Then what? The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also made it clear, and I can quote her: "But there is something to say that is a legal right that really guarantees you that you will get this right without any additional conditions, and it is a continuous one. But something else is the right you exercise through NGOs" and so on. The coalition therefore did not convince me why these things should change, so I will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor. Behind her, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I prefer to see the abuse of one asylum seeker of this horrendous superstandard rights rather than the abuse of the state. And we have to admit that we have here now, if this goes through, which, of course, I don't doubt that this gray field will go up a little bit. We are talking a lot about the superstandards our country has, especially in the field of human rights, and they are kind of embarrassed by the coalition. I am confident that when this government mandate is complete, there will be no more tests of superstandards. There's only going to be a gray burnout on average. I am proud that our country has some things that are superstandard, which are better arranged than in some other European countries, and I think it makes sense for these things to be preserved. In particular, as I point out once again, I have made it clear on the Committee the question of where the reasons are in particular and what are the precise reasons for us to decide to amend this legislation. The Secretary of State didn't answer them. More. In fact, she answered, but she simply put all her responsibility on NGOs, when they are guilty because they are doing well. That is why we can then lower these standards because our NGOs are doing so well. Those same NGOs, of course, who take their money at every possible step. As far as the medical examination is concerned, I would like to highlight one point. When I was a journalist, one night we were with the cops, then I have to say, and probably now, this cooperation was very good. At one night circle along the border we were looking for those who were then across the stream, where Phoenix is now working, and that, ran from Croatia to our end and so on. And that's when we ran into one handful of Chinese refugees. I must say, it was one of my most shocking experiences. When these Chinese refugees saw the police uniforms, they just fell down and started crying. In short, when they see the uniforms, I think we have some bad experience from where they're running, a simple cancellation on the whole line. Among them were many people who would not have been judged to be over fifteen, sixteen years old. They must have been. And I can't imagine how these people are going to go through this sieve to say these checks. First of all, based on physical characteristics or body characteristics, what the profession has said is sometimes very difficult to determine age. Especially with some groups. Secondly, I think doctors will oppose us, as in Germany, doing so. Thirdly, there is no record of it anywhere, otherwise the Secretary of State has pointed out this as the first part of this law, that the method is not mentioned. I can't accept that. The method must be very clear when we are talking about it, very clearly defined and cannot be left to the individual's judgment. He can't and he can't! Especially not on the basis of physical characteristics. That's what I'm stressing. There were proposals for this review to change with some multidisciplinary approach. Not only are these checks of age, but other independent experts, psychologists, social workers and the like are included in this. So, let's say this opinion, if you think there has to be and there's a tremendous amount of tax money being lost at this point, maybe it makes sense to use at least that kind of thing. And let me say this is also the position of the Council of Europe, the Union of European Ombudsmen and the European Association of Paediatrics, who even urge pediatricians not to carry out such checks, because it has been proven, once again, to be proven, that is not something that I would say is very unreliable and the results can go back up to a few years. I think that should be taken into account. I would like to stress once again that there is no reason to adopt this novel. There is simply no reason, except that the government has decided on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u21	Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen! We are in one sensitive area of human rights and how our country treats people. Of course, there are many citizens and citizens in an extremely difficult situation. Today, we are talking about those who were not so fortunate that they could live in their homeland and flee to save their lives. I'm talking about teenagers. I can't say my point of view in person right now because I don't have direct experience. In the family, however, we have a granddaughter who has worked for two years with refugees and her stories are shocking. When these youths come here, they don't even know the language, they don't know anything, they're killed to the spot, and then they come to the mill of those who, on official duty, accept them. At that time, they usually have no other assistance than the assistance of civil organisations, so civil organisations should be supported, helped to help those who have come here, also with legal aid, and thus, somehow, our national pride to these people, to ourselves, could be protected. The granddaughter says these medical examinations would be another blow to human dignity. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u23	Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, again. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! The Social Democrats' Group is proposing an amendment proposing the deletion of 44a. an article which regulates something which is an optional component of the directive to determine the age of a unaccompanied minor. I have learned in this long parliamentary practice that we can tackle the problem from different angles and whether it is acceptable to us or not, depending on where we look at it. In European legislation is the right to family reunification, the right to protect minors is the one that is irresistible. I do not deny that there are also cases of attempted abuse, misinformation, but for this there are those who, with appropriate competence and assistance, can also present to the applicant the consequences of the misinformation and will also be rejected in the proceedings. As long as I have been monitoring the number of those who receive a favourable resolution of their application for protection, this number does not move in such a direction as to constitute an irresistible financial contribution for a country that is also in crisis. Once again, I would like to point out that we need to be correct when we argue some procedures only through the state of public finances. I would like to draw attention to this very thing that my fellow Member, Happy Meh, has been talking about. As a result of austerity measures, NGOs are increasingly left to finance only those programmes supported by the European Union and are co-financed by European funds. However, a greater proportion of those activities carried out by non-governmental organisations would be part of public funding, but there are simply no or no indications whether these activities will be carried out or not. Why am I talking about this? Because the government doesn't have a consistent policy. Some social problems and assistance will be addressed within the framework of the regular activities of ministries and services. I am specifically referring to issues of domestic violence. I'd like to leave the others to NGOs. And the proposed solution, which is very important in this article, in fact, if it is to believe that the word "trust" has been very important to this government lately, and if I trust that in fact the review will be multi-disciplinary, because it is not only about medical care, but where it has ensured that NGOs will have adequate financial support because a multi-disciplinary process is needed here. However, as long as I deal with the issue of international protection and the work of NGOs, it is also possible to learn in magnetograms how those who have advocated the Government's marriage of international assistance – in any mandate to understand – have always been excused by the lack of experts, including NGOs, who could jump to help. Where are we gonna get them from all of a sudden? We will not even educate officials for these procedures, we have heard that it is a shame to educate because there are not many of these cases. Now I don't know whether there are many or not, because on the one hand, international protection is such a big financial problem, and on the other hand, education is not worth it. The kind of thing that bothers me in dealing with people who don't have any luck in life. I remember what colleague Bikareva was talking about, a bunch of refugees from former parts of the common country. And at that time, we also asked coalition MPs for different solutions when the government, under the Ministry of the Council of Bohinca, stopped them. And then the opposition MPs said to me, "Yeah, how are you, you're in coalition MPs, why are you putting amendments against your government?" It's not about whether you're in favor of the government or against the government. This is how I voted when the government was being decided. It's about how we adopt legislation that involves people we come in contact with. And it is true that not all citizens and citizens of Slovenia are. But we also live in this country with those who are only the inhabitants and inhabitants of this country, and we also need human and dignified treatment. It has already been said, so now I have gone in the other direction to note this inadmissibility of medical examination by the Ombudsman of other European countries, the Council of Europe, non-governmental organisations. I appeal to the Members and Members to support this amendment, which is on its way to deletion. However, the government should make an effort to prepare things in such a way that it will not be necessary to change the law again in two years or three years' time, because the matter will be under-appropriated and a problem will arise in the implementation of certain provisions. Those who learn things say that such an open article, which does not define methods, can remain a dead letter on paper because it will be so vague and open that it will not lead to a possible solution. Now to say that someone at the age of thirty-five, as it says in the paper, claims to be a child, yes, because as long as we have living parents in this logic, it does not count me as cynicism, but it is simply that at the age of fifty it is probably by some external methods that it seems that that person is not as old as he claims. I'm not going to come forward later, but we're just asking for the same deletion of the article, which has to do with it, and it's interfering with the procedures already in place. This, in our view, is an unacceptable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u25	I'm gonna open another loop. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, followed by Mrs Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u26	Good-bye! Look, after all we've been saying, my colleague Vontah, Potrata, here's my neighbor, it's hard to say anything else. It's a sensitive subject, like when we were talking about personal assistance. And I'm sure you won't vote today to delete this Article 44. And it's a small percentage of the problems. The devil will not take the state budget, even if someone abuses the matter we are talking about today. The role of non-governmental organisations is indeed exceptional and must be taken to the maximum. I only hope that in time we will not come to the founding of a small Guantanamo, which is a disgrace to all mankind, especially to the United States, which are constantly teaching us something. Finally, this is all I ask, Members of Parliament and Members of the House, go to Kino Dvor, see a wonderful movie Teacher, a fugitive in Canada, and then you will see how you will vote if you have any hearts in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u27	Mrs. Janja Klasinc, behind her Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, in this National Assembly, I am probably the only Member who has come close to meeting this issue. As a result, I regret that my colleague Matei is not in the Chamber, thanks to our colleague Matei, who was the Interior Minister, I was transferred from the Cabinet of the Minister to the Asylum or Asylum Sector in 2008. I haven't done it because I'm not qualified to do it, administrative procedure, but I've been dealing with these tragic stories that are, believe me, shocking for a year. Yet, it is even more shocking when you see the totally cold heart of some individuals who are part of this administrative procedure. I am therefore an absolute advocate of the compulsory legal aid paid to all applicants for international asylum aid. My colleague Vonta said today, most of them are ignorant. However, I tell you, there are also highly educated people among them, but they cannot because of language differences, because of everything else, be in line with the complicated legal procedure. And the most important part of this whole administrative procedure is right at the first stage. At the first stage, the applicant meets for the first time with all the arguments and circumstances in which he found himself coming to our country and asking for this assistance. On the other hand, there are professional suspects who always consider that there may be someone on the other hand who is using the possibility of asylum to come to Slovenia as an economic migrant. I think that was too much. I don't know what the situation is now. I can do the wrong thing, and I've been talking to my colleagues and colleagues at the time, but you know what should be changed at the Ministry of the Interior? All people who meet with these asylum seekers should have not only the legal competence acquired by the administrative examination, but some broad education in order to know the situation in the countries from which these applicants come. In Brussels, the Minister of the Interior said in one of his statements on this issue that applicants have come from the Western Balkans and Turkey in recent years, as was the case at times, now the applicants are mainly from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia and Sudan. If that's true, and I believe it's true, then it's so important that these people have legal aid, and this paid legal aid, from the beginning. The Secretary of State said that NGOs are doing this very well. I completely agree with him. But I'll tell you what it looks like. These NGOs, not only have been mentioned today that they do not have enough money for the long-term duration of these projects, but also when they run out of this money, they leave their asylum home. The project is over. And there are months when there is no one to deal with it, and the state is obliged to provide this assistance to the asylum seeker. And in those cases where these people are gone, then this part of the legal aid paid is here. Let's go to another argument – funds. If we believe in the Ministry of the Interior that 350 really would come this year, which I also doubt, but if, and if, indeed, we need 56,000 euros, I should say that the police are just buying cars. 56,000 euros is the price of two patrol cars with police equipment, which will now be supplied by police seven. In addition, it will acquire two combined vehicles for the transport of four-wheeled police equipment, three passenger transport vehicles for the transport of goods with police equipment, ten civilian patrol vehicles with police equipment, ten special patrol vehicles. The total will cost EUR 590 000 500. I'm not saying these vehicles aren't necessary. On the contrary. Of course they are. But do you know what bothers me with this government, even with any other government I've ever been with before, even ours? Technology is always more important than people. We just can't afford it. And if I link the issue of these paid legal advisers to health checks. See how important it is if a person is to be a minor or a minor, and it is said that he is a minor, fortunate that he is not believed to be a minor in the asylum sector. And what should he do if he does not have legal aid paid to help him prove it? Of course, they are also social workers and NGOs, but they are in these cases. In addition, I would like to draw attention to everything that has already been said today. Look, doctors in many countries are resisting this. I read this in the media, which wanted to introduce these reviews. They have the same negative opinion in the institution of the Slovenian Ombudsman, where they also advocate for children's rights. If we went to another segment then this is a warning, which has already been told today that this legislation is constantly changing. When this right was abolished in 2005, when Janša's government was also in power in Slovenia, there were no public financial problems in that country. On the contrary. We were doing just fine. This is said not to be an argument of cost, it is an argument of the view of human rights. And I'll tell you, if we tell you that he ran the previous government and that he is leading this government of desire for as few refugees as possible to come to Slovenia, we have in the data of the Government or the Ministry of Interior, which are listed in the material in the explanatory notes, for this evidence. In 2008, when I was employed in the asylum sector, the proportion of applications granted to asylum seekers was less than 1%. And now the same thing will happen. For the first time, there will be significantly fewer people coming, and then fewer people will be approved. Let me tell you that at the time, the European Union warned Slovenia that something was wrong in this area. And the third part, which our Party does not agree with, is the abolition of the possibility of filing an application for international protection at diplomatic and consular offices. I met with applicants for international protection at the time of the Balkan Sea and at that time Slovenia did not have diplomatic-consular representations in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the diplomatic-consular representations of other countries had already been heavily besieged by the European Union. Do you understand that it is significantly easier for someone who is threatened in his country by human rights violations to seek security in a foreign country's diplomatic-consular representation where they live, than to pay traders who transport these unfortunate people, thousands and thousands of euros to enter the European Union. Here is a whole series of reasons that I have mentioned and mentioned by others, particularly colleagues, in today's debate, which indicate that the amendment of this law is totally unnecessary and will cause new human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u29	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. After him, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is true that human rights are always a sensitive subject, and we can agree on that, and they need to be dealt with very carefully. However, I must say that it is even more wrong for some to collect political points in an uncritical way on sensitive subject, sometimes also by playing and showing nobility. Look, I am glad that even after these changes, if adopted, Slovenia will remain a sensitive country, a country that feels and knows the problems of people who are in trouble. That is why I do not actually support these amendments that are on the table today, because we have to be realistic. We must be aware that many times those who arrange the transport of these unfortunates feel that a country has become a soft belly where regulations are exploited. We are only aligning ourselves with the European Union directive to abolish certain rights at the first stage, but this is because of the public financial situation in which our country is located. Therefore, I cannot agree with the argument which was in the debate on some of the amendments of Positive Slovenia to the Committee, where they argued that they did not recognise and reject the public financial situation in Slovenia. It's actually parasitic to nobility. And even today, I have heard some arguments that I cannot agree with or almost seem to me in some way even to malign the country. The mention of Slovenia or, if I have correctly understood, as a movement in the direction that we, too, will have Guantanamo, camps or anything in this territory, is unacceptable under this law and these amendments. I must also say that I protest such low interpretation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u31	Mr Jerovšek, we have agreed that we will not use such expressions, "lower", "lower" and so on, we delete it from the dictionary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u32	But then I will say to the inappropriate interpretation that it is for the hardship of the people who are with us, and that it is for some things to be reconciled, as well as some things to be reduced, that our diaspora in Argentina is to blame, to visit the Slovenians who live in Argentina, as the colleague of Bikareva has said. I suppose some people are nervous that the third generation of Slovenians in Argentina speak Slovenian. The most inappropriate case seems to me to be playing some moves in Slovenian society that are not acceptable at all. And at this level, it is also inappropriate to slaughter among Members of Parliament. And look, it's been said that we limit the rights of people who are not guilty of being in impossible living conditions. That's partly true. Of course, we need to be aware — and also a Member who spoke about it — that there are a lot of people in our country who are not guilty of life’s impossible circumstances. There's a lot of people like that around here. I'm sorry. And our people are also forced to leave their own country. And now, if you're saying that you don't recognize the financial situation as you wrote it, in this context, then appeal to those people who have sent from Slovenia to tax havens and from Slovenian banks billions of money, to set up collection centres there in those tax havens, to become Samaritans and there for Slovenian money [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u33	Mr Jerovšek, please, if you stick to the contents of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u34	to help people who have not found themselves guilty in impossible living conditions. [[...]] Identifying the age of a unaccompanied minor is, in my view, an understandable measure. In my view, it will not be used by the competent authorities in a mass way, as it is clear to some people at first sight that they are minors. But it is a matter of preventing the abuse of certain rights and abuses that I think we must prevent and that in this country we owe it to each step and to each segment to act rationally. There is no need for us, in a situation where we have not chosen a lesser evil, to say that we will devote some of this money, which would otherwise go to abuse our country, to our own people, to those who are in distress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u35	Mrs. Masha Kociper, then Mr. Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection has been supported by the Committee on Internal Policy, which I am chairing, although it has expressed opposition to this solution not only by many Members and members of the opposition, but also by representatives of NGOs, representatives of Slovenian philanthropy, representatives of the Ombudsman and even a representative of the Council of State has pointed out that better solutions should be found in the law below. The law is once again – although it is relatively small, we could say in some respects a meaningless law – a great disappointment to the opposition over the fact that even at some very small points we are not able to convince the coalition to listen to our arguments. The article we are talking about proposes a new Article 44, which regulates the determination of a medical examination to determine the age of unaccompanied minors on the basis of an optional provision of the Directive, by which the measure introduces an intervention into human physical and mental integrity, is said to touch Article 35 of our Constitution. When it comes to interference with human physical and mental integrity, legal protection standards must be the highest. And here too is the basic problem that we are completely needlessly reducing the legal standard that was recognised in this country, recognised by a law that has only been amended one year or less ago. However, if we are to decide whether to apply optional provisions of the directive to the political decision of the government, the government's decision to prevent these people from using free legal aid at first stage is absolutely unnecessary. If ever, in such interventions into human dignity and integrity, people must be able to learn what their legal options are and what their further legal measures may be – not only in relation to this measure, but also further. The Legislative and Legal Service also mentions in its opinion that these asylum procedures are actually and legally extremely difficult procedures. If people are not afforded legal protection or free legal aid in the first instance, this legal protection and free legal aid at the second stage are usually completely unnecessary, as it does not even occur. That's why it seems to us that because of the peeing, forgive me, but for the country this is really peeing 11 thousand euros, giving up free legal aid in the first degree is absolutely unnecessary. In particular, when it is mentioned that this measure also concerns minors, persons under the age of 18 who have not been accompanied by parents or legal representatives in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia have stopped. Not only the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but also the international conventions offer children the highest level of protection and the highest level of legal protection, and they say that in these cases it is always necessary to seek the greatest benefit of the child. Therefore, in a situation where this is the case, I will just read what they have written: "In view of the above, every reduction in the scope of the rights of unaccompanied minors can be disputed in terms of the constitutional and convention principles, the greatest benefit of the child is also because of the budgetary savings from this title, as regards this category of applicants, which is not, however, valuable, negligible in the proposal." As we can see, it amounts to EUR 11,000. It also makes sense to draw attention to the point raised by colleagues Bikar and Klasinc of our parliamentary group. Currently, some level of protection is provided by these diverse NGOs on the basis of projects. However, there is no way to compare project-based protection with law-based protection, because in general saving, it is possible to reduce these projects if they do not end. And if then no legal protection is provided, these people can be really, really hurt. So also, on my part, once again, I urge my fellow Members from the coalition to consider whether such savings are worth reducing the level of legal protection achieved by 11 000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u37	Mr. Ivan Pišek, then Mr. Richard Branisel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. It was said that the number of refugees was dropping. The official data suggest otherwise that the increase in applicants from 2010 to 2011 is 45 %. Among these, the number of unaccompanied or 7% since 2008 increased to 17% in 2011 for unaccompanied minors. That information I have, it speaks for itself. Medical examinations. I believe that because it is not determined what kind of medical examination it should be, this will be even more specific and correct and directed at a particular applicant, that doctors will be able to assess better than we do here, what kind of examination will they prescribe to this minor that it will not harm him, In addition, I think that the examinations are also in the interest of the applicants. If they come from a country where they don't have basic standards, they probably don't have any health care, and here, if they're examined at least partially, they'll probably have some kind of protection for themselves. There's talk of various amounts. Kociprova's colleague spoke of 11,000 euros. I don't know, maybe it's a small amount for whom, but the fact is that we're not talking about these sample 350 cases for 11,000 euros, but 15 thousand euros is already the cost of a country co-financed by NGOs, that 25% for projects. This means that it will be plus the EUR 56,000 that are now being paid for these projects. Why would they pay for that? Why would we need that? Why do we need two of the same things? However, the Ministry there are officials who are generally educated about these matters whether they know the situation or not, and on the other hand NGOs who are probably also engaged in this professional activity. I believe that Mr Meh's granddaughter is doing this job, professionally, better than an official at the Ministry. And I believe that she will be better able to advise this applicant on how to behave, what roles she must play, what conditions she must fulfil, given that she also has a translator provided, and in any case she probably understands what was being done to him and what was said to him. Amendments to the legislation. We agree that it is probably hard to redefine certain conditions each year. But who went to change? Two years ago, you and the then government went to amend legislation, and the granting of certain rights that are superstandard is desirable. But in a situation like we were two years ago, that's not working. Many European countries did not grant such rights, but they were in a better economic situation two years ago than we were at the expense of someone else. And now we agree that it is difficult to take these rights. But look, six European countries are thinking about introducing visas for applicants from Balkan countries because this migration population is increasing. And there go better countries than us, richer, with less problems than you would like us to. Tragic stories, as my colleague said, I believe, are for everyone's own sake. And every tragic story will be solved individually by these NGOs. Our job here in Parliament is to save our tragic stories. How many citizens do we have who have 56,000 or 70,000 euros unimaginable amounts that do not have the kind of medical care they want or need, have no basis for life, have nothing in fact. Those refugees who come here and those who are eligible will receive an apartment and will receive food and health care. I don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u39	Mr. Richard Braniselle. Replica Mr Happy Meh, and then Mr Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u40	It's a misunderstanding of what I was trying to say. Now most of the refugees are from those areas that are very far away from us, from Afghanistan, Pakistan and other countries. They don't understand any language but their own. And it's that you really need help, legal aid and translation aid that they don't have, and they can only get it through civil associations. That's what this is about, and that's what needs help. That's why these people who are here, who are obliged to help them keep this, and forgive me, these refugees are in a room where one of them could live, and they're 20, 15, 25. The conditions are incomparable. They are inhuman to a country that deals with civilisational norms. That's what I wanted to say at the time, and civil associations or NGOs are valuable, but they don't have money and they're left to themselves, and they're often without other tools.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u41	The replica's still a mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u42	What the Government has stated as a cost, EUR 56,000 per year, the European Refugee Fund provides the European Refugee Fund at first level, at 80% and only 20% of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This will amount to EUR 11 000 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u43	Mr. Richard Branisel has a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you, President. If we adopt this amendment today and reject the two amendments tabled by the Social Democracy, I say that we are in no way interfering with the fundamental rights and freedoms of this marginal group that we are talking about today. These are the asylum-seekers, the refugees. We are in no way prejudice to the provisions of the Geneva Convention, the Dublin Conventions and the directives we are obliged to respect. It is in this respect that the public interest of this country's concern for this marginal group has laid down international law and fundamental human rights and freedoms. My opinion is that nothing has been broken here. While funding from two titles is welcome under some other circumstances. Financing comes from the same budget and it is quite enough that this is ensured by the work carried out by NGOs receiving money from this budget. There's still a possible eyewitness that was today and flew to the police and refugee centers. It's about people who are trained, and it's not about some senseless, cold people. It's about psychologists, it's about doctors, it's about cops who run difficult procedures. That's right. It is also true that these procedures are difficult. However, they are not difficult to begin this procedure. And this cost falling on the ground also relates to the cost of decision-making at the first stage, at the second stage, and also to decision-making at the stage called the administrative dispute. These are also not some negligible costs that this country would not have borne. And maybe one more thing. There is no need to give a sign that we are an overly asylum-friendly society, because this brings not only a certain circle of those refugees and asylum-seekers who want to regulate their status and who are solving life situations. This also brings to our country a whole species, even the refugee industry behind us, and it is called organised crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u45	Replica, Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. I certainly don't want anyone to understand that my debate was an attack on all the employees of the Police or the Asylum Sector or anything. I said that we were also dealing with such cases, and I said that this was also my experience. Most of them are proper employees. I have pointed out one point, colleague Braniselj, which I think would benefit the actual ministry, it is about further training on situations in countries where people come from, because this means several times in the administrative procedure one fundamental reason for misunderstanding and suspicion that someone is taking advantage of this. That's a first. Secondly, I would like to explain that this European directive, which is, of course, optional and which you have repeatedly referred to, is not an accident. Look, we're asking ourselves now whether we're going to get 350 people. Thousands of refugees are arriving in some European Union countries. And that's why they avoid greater obligations, and that's just European egoism. What you have just said in the end is true if you let them do it now, but you would attract them. That's what you say, we don't want to help, that's logic, and that's what worries me. Poor people who are tortured to death if they return to their country of origin. There are many political asylum seekers who come to countries where there is no punishment like ours to spend a year or pay some kind of money. No, they kill them. In some Arab countries, they cut hands, legs and similar things, so I think we need to be particularly sensitive and I think that even if the maximum number of 350 people came, it would not endanger the financial situation. In fact, I have proved in my debate that it is not a financial problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u47	There's still a desire to discuss it, so I'll reopen the application. Here you go. You can sign in. Before we proceed with the debate of Members and Members, I give the floor to the State Secretary of Mags. Maroltu. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have listened with interest to this debate about Article 6 of the Law. Let me explain again. In the European Union, all Member States, with the exception of Slovenia and Greece, have an age-setting procedure for unaccompanied minors. That actually says a lot. Why? The essence of the proposed amendment to Article 6 of the Law is to prevent abuses that occur in an increasing number or to attempt abuses, as Mrs Magis warned. Waste, which is now existing legislation, does not give any legal basis to prevent such abuses, to determine the actual situation when an unaccompanied applicant claims to be a minor. Look, there's no legal basis for this. According to experts, abuses are taking place, attempts to abuse, but this country cannot now be checked because it does not have this mechanism. Therefore, this amendment to the law is proposed to test the determination in case of doubt as to his actual age. The age test or the age determination procedure will be conducted exclusively by the profession, exclusively the medical profession, the forensic experts. This will not be decided by officials, nor will it be decided by politicians, not by the judiciary, but by the profession. And the medical profession is thrown away by its medical regulations, other acts of law, doctors also have Hippocrates' oath, there will also be judicial experts who are legally sworn experts, and let us make it possible for the profession to do so. Why? I'll give you a very practical example. We have an applicant who claims to be underage and comes to Slovenia for international protection. Since Slovenia cannot now verify or determine its age, it is in doubt that it is a minor and is recognised as a minor. Then this person goes to another country of the European Union, for example, to the neighbouring state of Austria, Italy, Germany or anywhere else in the European Union. And this other country, when it comes to their territory, will check whether this person is underage or not or how old he is. This country shall then, in accordance with their national legislation, in the context of this procedure, find before the competent physicians that a person is of full age and is not a minor. And what happens? This country shall immediately return this person, in accordance with the Dublin Agreement, to the Republic of Slovenia. And the black mark falls on our country, why it does not determine the actual state. The actual situation must be identified in all types of procedures, whether administrative, judicial or other proceedings. And what happens? This person is returned to Slovenia. How do you treat her now? We have information from another country of the European Union that a person is of age. And according to our regulations, he has the status of a minor. But it turns out she's not underage. For this reason, this procedure is now in place. As regards methods, procedures, methods, I would like to point out that as soon as the amendment of the law in the government was adopted, we have obtained initiatives from NGOs, the initiative of the Paediatric Clinic, and in this context the amendment of the coalition was also prepared and adopted on the parent committee. As far as I'm concerned, once again, the procedure at the doctor's office, it's a professional thing. Let the profession know, let the profession decide. This novelty of this article of the law allows the exercise of the constitutional right and the rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the greatest benefit of the child. This is a fundamental principle that binds our country and we must not forget it. Now what's happening is that we have one of the applicants who claimed to be underage. The state does not have procedures and levers to verify, but is, in fact, full-time. And what happens? He is considered a minor and may even be located in the same premises as a minor. See, this is not in line with the principle of the greatest benefit of the child. This has a negative impact on those who are actually children who are actually asylum seekers as minors and there is also a risk of trafficking in human beings. Therefore, these anomalies, which are taking place, unfortunately, in practice, must be eliminated. As far as this medical examination is concerned, I must stress this. A medical examination to determine the age of a suspected unaccompanied minor will only be possible with the consent of a unaccompanied minor and his legal representative. If both of you refuse this medical examination, the person who claims to be a unaccompanied minor will continue to be treated as a full-year-old. So if age detection is disabled. I am sure that that child and his representative, who will know that the child is actually a child, that he is a minor, will certainly let his actual age be determined in case of doubt. Those speculators, those who know they're not underage, they'll probably react differently. That is why this provision is in line with the principle of the greatest benefit of the child and the prevention of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u49	We continue the debate. Mrs Tamara Vont has the floor – she is giving up the debate. Mag. Borut Ambrožič, then Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, President. At first I didn't want to come to the phone, and yet I might share some experience from my previous position as an agent of the patient's rights with this respected loot. More than once, it has been said that health today is also one of the fundamental human rights, as well as the inviolability of the body and personality. Therefore, given the data that I have not been aware of to date, this savings of EUR 11 000 500, as has been repeatedly said today, are too small for the proposed abolition of free legal aid at first stage and for the introduction of a medical examination to determine age to take a social note to the country of Slovenia, which should seek to protect the weakest, in this case juvenile migrants, who in many cases seek their existential happiness elsewhere for very real reasons, such as war, violence or unsustainable living conditions. I am also asked the question of the legitimate reasons for proposing and adopting legislation on an urgent and shortened basis, which is what this amendment represents. However, it is commendable that Slovenia is seeking to meet its obligations under European Union law properly, since Slovenia is subject to at least four infringement decisions, three reminders and one referral to the European Union court, all of which are subject to appropriate financial sanctions. It is also commendable that the government is increasingly appreciating the role of the non-governmental sector in society, but perhaps a little less commendable that it is not being funded properly or additionally, and I do not intend to support the proposed novel in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u51	Mr. Joseph Horvat, then Mr. Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The very fact that the law on international protection is on the table today is certainly extremely important and extremely beneficial to consider at this point the horrors of refugees all over the world and, on the other hand, to be aware of the values we enjoy here at home, in Slovenia, in peace. The numbers are frantic. Last year alone, in 2011, over 800,000 people left their countries. And just last year, there were refugees, which is to say those who left their homes, almost 4 million and a half. And there are over 40 million refugees all over the world. Fragmentary data that we don't know how to present, and sometimes it's really useful, as my colleague, Mirko Brulc, has asked us to see a movie. I caught a few shots of a film myself yesterday around midnight when a young Albanian apparently even walked into a promised country called Central Europe, Germany and worked there for three euros an hour, slept on the street and so on. But this may not be a topic right now, and this is certainly a thought. Surely we are not the same in this human race that we all make up. We are not even equal, but we are all equal, as the famous pomur sociologist and professor said. In 2000, the United Nations declared June 20th as World Refugee Day. The Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees has already celebrated its 60th anniversary. In times of economic crisis and political tensions, the Convention represents an eternal symbol of our humanity and our willingness to help those on the run. In the light of this readiness to help refugees, Slovenia has also shown its goodwill, which contributes annually to helping refugees through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. With regard to the specific two amendments or amendments to Article 6 and then to Article 16 that I no longer advertise, the matter is as follows. As far as determining the age of unaccompanied minors is concerned, I trust the medical profession here. The Secretary of State already mentioned Hippocrates' oath, which is still valid, even though it was already written by Pythagoreans. When the doctor has completed his studies or at the beginning of his medical practice before the gods of health, he somehow swears that he will act for the good of mankind. Not only is it Hippocrates' oath, but it is, we all remember, or at least some, that the 1948 Geneva Convention has exceeded. With regard to free legal aid, I believe here the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior which analysed the projects of non-governmental organisations and found that this project was very well visited among applicants. Representatives of NGOs are present among refugees daily. And that's good, that's praiseworthy. They are therefore available to applicants daily. This is a very accessible and flexible system and indeed an effective system of assistance to those people who really need help. We estimate in New Slovenia that this form of assistance is more useful than legal aid through refugees advisors who were often unavailable, occupied, unattainable, unable to obtain it in time and so on. Representatives of NGOs are always in an asylum home and always offer assistance. From this point of view, it is not really about lowering the standards for those people who need this help, so we are not inclined to support the amendments to Articles 6 and 16 of this Act or to the complementary proposal of the Law on International Protection proposed by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u53	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, behind her, Mr Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u54	A warm welcome to the President, the Secretary, the Members and Members on my behalf as well. I want to say that doctors can easily tell the age of adolescents. The process of determining the age of young people in European countries is normal. So that's not the problem. But the problem is payment. I don't know if the secretary has any data on how much it costs to figure out how old it is, because it's very expensive. Much more than compulsory legal aid, which I consider to be self-evident and right in each country [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u55	Does anyone else want to discuss this article? First, I will give my word to the Secretary of State, then Mr Franz Puksič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much for this question, Madam Members. I'd like to answer right away. The professional services provided information that approximately €80 would be the cost of this medical examination. If other external experts were then involved, the costs would, of course, be additional. However, once again, this needs to be done to determine the actual age of applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u57	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will not support these two amendments alone. But my colleague, Alenka Bikar, used my name to no avail. In his debate and in his tapegram, it follows: "Or if a fellow Member, Mr Pukšič, were to give up another trip in a noble way next year, then only ten of them could have gone to such an examination after this calculation, given how much Pukšič spent his resources." If Roman Jakič had given up his travels around the world, a hundred of them could have gone through his resources. He spent over 6,000 and a few euros on a very small number of trips, and I visited our relatives and relatives in place and around the world, with many of these trips, many days and extremely few funds spent. I would therefore like to invite colleague Alenko Bikar to arrange this first within her own parliamentary group. On the other hand, all these laws, of course, all that is happening, would not be necessary if some people did not help with a large hammer to drill a hole into this banking system and our indebtedness in the past years and today would be completely in another field and would be discussing materially different matters for the greater well-being of citizens and citizens. The bill is, unfortunately, to be paid. We're all paying for it, unfortunately, as you say, refugees. I remember myself well, and I know what it was like to be single when our cousins wanted to come home to Slovenia. At that time the Society of Slovenia engaged in the world and the World Slovenian Congress, which through civil society made a huge deal so that certain things could still be carried out and run. Since some of the allegations were unworthy and inappropriate and have no direct connection with the amendment, it seems to me that it is unfair to discuss them in this way in the National Assembly. Of course, it is not Puksic, Puksic is only the President of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world and a member of this delegation is also Vice-President, who comes from Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Since I see that we have exhausted the list of advertised debaters, and we still have time left, I ask if anyone else would like to apply for the debate. We are in the debate on the amendment to Article 6. I see that there is no longer interest in the debate. I am putting to the debate article 16a and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? He does. I'm opening applications. One panellist has been reported. Mag. Maja Potrat, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you. Our amendment, of course, follows our basic thesis that things cannot be handled backwards. This amendment therefore deletes the provision that the provision of Article 6 which introduces medical checks should also be applied to those procedures that are already in progress, not from the entry into force of the law and after that time, but to those that are already in progress. We believe that this would be legally correct, so we are proposing such an amendment. However, as far as medical examinations are concerned, I have a very clear position on this and do not want to give my personal experience to the general level. I would say, however, that errors in all professions, despite their professional qualifications, can not be excluded from the difficulties involved in the examinations. However, it is to be expected that if we do not feel like part of the European Community and part of the European acquis, there will be little less problems in our country and that it will be possible to resolve domestic situations in disregard of certain civilisation standards, but I do not think that this can be expected. The crises are those in which the power of civilization manifests itself precisely in respect for the life and rights of every human being — that we are not overly selfish in this regard. Otherwise, €24,000 [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? As I see that there is no longer any interest or need for further discussion, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a first-hand proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The purpose of the new law on police tasks and powers is to prepare a modern European comparable and transparent law, which will systematically and comprehensively regulate one place and set out police tasks, general police powers and enforcement resources, and will also regulate a quality and effective procedure for resolving complaints against the police. In preparing the draft law, the international conventions on the protection of human rights, which bind the Republic of Slovenia and the recommendations of domestic and foreign institutions and organisations dealing with the protection of human rights in police procedures such as CAT, the UN Torture Committee, CPT, the Council of Europe Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and so on. The origins of the law were also internal and external expert analyses, research and projects, findings of controls, reports of the Ombudsman, important jurisprudence and decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights from Strasbourg, and of course the theory and practice of modern democratic police. The basic objective of the bill is to correct and supplement the provisions in the areas which have proved to be tightly and inexactly defined during the implementation of the current law on police, thereby ensuring an even higher level of legal and personal security of people and their property, and to bring them into line with other system laws. If I mention just a few major solutions, the law regulates police tasks and so-called security police powers. These are the ones the police are using to prevent danger. It is the fundamental source of police procedures and the most important police rule for preventive and repressive police action. It is a central but not the only source of standardization of police powers. Better supervision in the field of police powers is ensured, as their application is subject to more detailed and legal reporting and supervision, and a procedure to resolve complaints against the work of police officers is also laid down in more detail. The issue of sub-legal signatures is a novelty in the rules for the exercise of police powers. The draft law thus explicitly stipulates that the Minister shall issue a regulation on the exercise of police powers after obtaining the previous opinion of the Ombudsman. The latter represents a higher standard of human rights and freedoms, particularly in the part where police, with their powers, intervene in human rights and freedoms. The law also specifically exposes and sets out the principles for the use of police powers. The principles promote the highest standards of police work, respect for the rule of law and human rights in all police activities, confidence in the public in the work of the police, adequate systems of accountability for police work, understanding and openness of citizens to the police. Among the fundamental novelties of the bill are, if you allow me to mention only one thing: the substantive clarification of indeterminate legal terms, the definition of police procedure and tactical discretion, the new police authority, the roadblock. Criminal acquisition and evaluation of information is further defined. The new ones are police powers to ensure security and order at sports events, to prohibit participation in sports events and to suspend travel, to change the conditions for the use of a service dog, to change the conditions for the use of firearms, to establish a gap between temporary restrictions on movement and deprivation of liberty, to carry out police duties abroad and to act as foreign police officers in the Republic of Slovenia, to take account of the duration of the police procedure until the detention is determined during the detention period and to make the appeal procedure more clear and transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The new Slovenia and mag Group have the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u64	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The law on the tasks and powers of the police before us is a system law which systematically and comprehensively regulates all police tasks and general police powers in one place. So far, all these things have been recorded in the Police Act and in several other sub-laws, and we are now regulating all these matters in a single law. The uniform regulation of all these powers is also important in terms of the principle of legality, that all human rights and freedoms are predetermined and, of course, clearly defined. Before me, the Secretary of State has already mentioned some of the news that this law brings. I'd like to point them out myself. One thing is sure to expand the spectrum of covered investigative measures. The law thus allows for the adaptation of identity, secret observation, listening and observation in foreign housing and space, apparent bribery, and the giving and receiving of gifts. Why is that important? You know that crime and criminals, unfortunately, are spoken and the human word is such that they are always one step ahead of justice. As a result, the police and the repressive authorities must adapt to the new circumstances. Of course, the increase in the scope of these options that this law gives to the police, from us Members, and in particular from the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, requires particularly detailed and more careful work. Increasing these rights will also mean better and more precise work by the Commission to control intelligence and security services. It seems very important to us that this law is also taking a step forward in ensuring the anonymity of persons who, for such or other reasons, provide the police with certain information that will then help them to obtain a variety of information that leads to the ultimate goal, which is to close non-derogation. It should be mentioned that this law also includes the so-called Wilfan solution, if I may call it that. Remember that there has recently been a long debate in Parliament, why the coalition did not want to support the Wilfana solutions to the incidents at the sports events at the time. We are fulfilling this promise in this law and practically identical sentences, identical arrangements, as colleague Wilfan proposed about a month ago, are now written here too, and I think it is right that these provisions are enshrined in the system law. One of the things that this law also introduces, thanks to colleague Wilfana, is the interruption of travel for all those warmed-up fans. The Secretary of State has also mentioned a road closure with a checkpoint, and another thing that I thought was interesting and might be quite resonant in public is that this law also introduces a new mandate for the police. This is because a police officer can also use this foreign vehicle to hunt criminals if he does not have his means of transport and because of an emergency needs a foreign vehicle. A lot of people are going to say that you already know these things from known Hollywood movies. Let me just explain that the person who will be taken or taken away from a vehicle by a police officer in such emergencies will also be entitled to a report of all costs and possible damage. Another news that also seems important to me is the bringing in of a person for the purpose of providing assistance. There are many older people who have various health problems, and can be lost here or there, or small children, but cannot be identified, this law will allow the police to protect them until their identity is established. And another thing that we are very close to in New Slovenia, and very much like, is that it also emphasizes the control over the exercise of police powers. You know there are also complaints about police work, and these things are very clearly regulated in this law, that first things, disputes between citizens and police officers are trying to settle in a conciliation process, but if these matters are not successful in the conciliation process, they go ahead with the Senate. This is just one of the solutions that this system law brings. According to New Slovenia's assessment, it is a good law, which is why we predict support for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities, etc. Lászlo Goncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The proposal shows that this law actually systematically regulates the performance of the duties and procedures or powers of police officers. Since we believe that the text is appropriate or quite appropriate for the first reading, we will support this proposal. From the point of view of indigenous national communities with regard to the proposal for a law, however, we note the not-too-happy formulation of the first sentence of Article 19. The proposal reads, quote: "For language communication in the performance of police tasks, police officers must respect the regulations in Slovenian as an official language and the use of Italian and Hungarian as additional official languages in the area of municipalities where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national community lives." We believe that the word link "additional official languages" or "official language" is not the most appropriate for both terminology and content reasons. In ethnically mixed areas, Slovenian and Italian, or Hungarian, are used equally, publicly and officially. The indigenous languages of the national community are therefore not additional official languages in these areas but are equivalent. We are confident that this comment can be taken into account. Practically in the text, we just have to leave the word "additional" or "additional". With regard to this law, we also have the following observation or proposal. In the spirit of Article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution, Article 106 of this Act should also be addressed concerning the cessation of vessels. The oral orders of police officers in the waters belonging to the national mixed area should also be in the Italian or Hungarian languages, in addition to the Slovenian and English languages. Such a situation occurs practically only in the case of the Italian national community or the national mixed area on the coast, but for principle reasons both national communities should speak in their mother tongue in the marriage text. In the context of the first examination of the law, I would point to the following. Positive information from the last meeting of the Commission on National Communities in the National Assembly on the fact that the Government has given its consent to the proposal for an act amending and supplementing the act on internal organisation and systematisation in the police is intended to further systematise the conditions of knowledge of the Italian or Hungarian language for the recruitment of a policeman performing his duties and tasks in the national mixed areas of the police administrations of Koper and Murska Sobota and in the programme of the professional terminology of knowledge of the Italian and Hungarian schools of police, would draw attention to the real implementation of constitutional and legal provisions in the public and official use of the language of indigenous national communities in the police. In practice, there are difficulties in the operation of the police in the language of the national communities in the national mixed area. According to the information gathered, it is often complicated to communicate orally with members of the national communities in their mother tongue and to conduct procedures in the language of indigenous national communities in the area. In addition, not all relevant bilingual forms and general information are available in the language of indigenous national communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Secretary of State! At the beginning of the discussion of the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police in Positive Slovenia, we would like in particular to welcome the start of the legislative procedure itself. This is a proposal for a law that we have been waiting for in this Council of States since the spring promise of the Minister of Home Affairs. The autumn is here, the bill is finally before us, it will be adopted in winter time, and it will start in spring, so at least with a one-year delay as we would like. Given that the proposal for a law has no added value compared to the draft law introduced by the former Minister in the legislative process, we are even more impatient over the long wait for the new police legislation. Of course, we wanted two new police powers to enter into force as soon as possible, namely the prohibition of participation in sports events and the suspension of the trip to a sports event. Since we had expected the unexplained delay of the Minister of the Interior regarding the proposal for a law on the duties and powers of the police in Positive Slovenia in a quiet manner, we had submitted our proposal for a law in the spring and then again before summer to prevent the crackdown and violence of the fans. Unfortunately, our proposal for a law has not received sufficient support, but we are pleased that these two powers are also in this bill, so we will support it in Positive Slovenia or we will not oppose the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Nevertheless, we express some concerns, which we are also reminded of by the information officer, regarding Article 113 of the bill, the use of technical means in data collection, and Article 114 of the bill, the use of technical means in the exercise of police powers and the monitoring of public gatherings. It is the police authority to process personal data of individuals. In Positive Slovenia, too, we also have doubts as to whether it is really necessary for the police to choose the method and means of collecting personal data, or whether it can be only those technical means provided by law, and whether it is necessary for the police to be allowed unlimited or permanent audio and video surveillance of individuals, or whether this control should be considered in terms of the interests of individuals who have not resisted the exercise of police powers or were not offensive to police officers. As part of the general debate in Positive Slovenia, of course, we would also like to hear an answer from the present State Secretary. However, our support for the bill will not be denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u70	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Police Act has been in force since 1998. During this time, it has been amended and supplemented several times, in accordance with the requirements of practice such as operational needs and the changed circumstances of police operations in recent years, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal order of the European Union, in particular the so-called Schengen acquis. 14 years is a long enough time when our legal system and society, and unfortunately also crime – in particular organised, economic and cross-border – have grown. Therefore, in the Member States, we support the thinking from the previous government that the whole so-called police regulation should be regulated by the adoption of two system laws in this area, which together form an effective whole. It is therefore imperative to adopt a system law on the tasks and powers of the police, as well as the law on the organisation and work of the police. This is complex legislation, as we are touching on the constitutional areas, which also affect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in the implementation is now an extraordinary weight on the Police Powers Rules, i.e. the day-to-day exercise of the duties and powers of the police in various situations, including sports events, which has already been widely mentioned in this space and this mandate. The law also regulates very limited situations when successful intervention can be turned into a black chronicle. Police officers in the field can say that there is a narrow line between a hero and a fool, especially when it comes to security on the one hand and human rights interventions on the other. And as has been said several times by the SDS Group, this limit can also be decided in microseconds. The bill is not about jumping into the unknown, as the bill covers the complex content of police powers already used by the Slovenian police in carrying out police duties. Notwithstanding the fact that individual police tasks and powers are also dealt with in other procedural rules, in this law, for the first time in independent Slovenia, in a conceptual sense, they are more systematically processed, in particular general police powers, accompanied by a broad explanation of fundamental concepts, principles and other provisions. It is not my intention to repeat in the position of the SDS Group all the objectives, purposes and reasons that have led the government to the drafting of the law. The bill defines 29 police powers. This says enough about how difficult it is to prepare this law, especially since, as I have already mentioned today, we can, at every step, strike on the other hand to defend human rights and fundamental freedoms. In this presentation of the opinion of the SDS Group, allow me to highlight why, in addition to the systemic resolution of the subject, we support the proposal for a law which we believe can be further cleared through the hearing in the National Assembly. In the SDS, in particular, we would like to emphasise the appropriate comparison of the bill with European practices and the protection of human rights. It is important to point out that such regulation of police law, which is a provision in two laws, is primarily Anglo-Saxon. Thus, they have the same system of law in Great Britain, as well as Austria, Germany, Sweden, Australia and Croatia. Australia also has different arrangements across regions. It is also important to point out that the drafting of the bill has consistently taken into account the international conventions on the protection of human rights that bind our country and the recommendations of domestic and foreign institutions and organisations dealing with the protection of human rights in police procedures. In addition, it should be pointed out that the starting point in the drafting of the law was also internal and external analyses, research and projects, monitoring findings, reports by the Ombudsman, important case law and decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. So the bill has been processed from all sides. It is also important to point out that a review of internal and external proposals was made prior to the drafting of the bill, and a review of the comparative regulation of police powers in Germany, Spain, Sweden and Croatia, as I have already mentioned, as well as the emphasis on individual police laws by Austria, Hungary, Serbia, Slovakia, the United States of America and so on. This is also beautifully presented in the drafting of the bill. There is also another human rights intervention, which we believe must be very specific in order to avoid problems in practice. In order to ensure human rights and fundamental freedoms, a number of guardians have been created by means of a proposal for a law that specifies the collection of notices and the recruitment of persons, regulates the identification, regulates in detail the security review and review of the person, removes the police authorisation of arrest, sets a distinction between constitutional categories of restrictions on movement and deprivation of liberty, specifies the rights of persons who are restricted or deprived of liberty, shortens the time allowed to intervene in human freedom, while also adding the time of the police procedure to the time of detention, which has been several times a matter of debate in the past. Procedures with vulnerable groups are also clearly regulated and in some cases the duration of detention is reduced. In practice, it is clear that there is a contradictory relationship between ensuring security and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Ensuring security requires certain interventions into other human rights and freedoms, otherwise the absence of security would lead to a situation where human rights and freedoms could not be realized at all. Perhaps at this time of discussions on the financial stability of the country, it is irrelevant that the proposal does not introduce any new provisions which would have financial implications for the state budget. After a thorough review of the law, it is clear that it is a very thorough consideration of every specific task of the police or of every police officer and of all the powers that the police or every police officer must exercise in their daily encounter with people or with different situations. Let me get this straight. In the SDS Group, we believe that the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police is a very substantive proposal for a law that does not bring about revolutionary changes, but together with the Labour and Organising Act in the police will ensure that the police work is still at a higher level in all segments. In the SDS Group, we will therefore support it in the first reading, and in the further consideration we will be able to see all the well-founded proposals that will further improve the law. If we want a real state of law, i.e. a country to the extent of all and not just individuals, both laws must be adopted and it is essential to amend legislation in the field of the prosecution and the judiciary. But it's a topic for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! With great anticipation, the Social Democrats are embarking on the first examination of the law on the tasks and powers of the police, given the willingness shown by the coalition to comment below. Let it not sound cynical, but I regret that it is not with us today to discuss Minister Gorenak, because it would be very interesting to know firsthand what has made him so much changed that he himself has tabled two laws dealing with the police. If we remember, however, we do not need to remember, we can look at the magnetograms of how many comments he had on dealing with what is related to the requirements for human security and property in this country and with the police in two laws. At that time he spoke of the overriding and unnecessary need of two laws, now that you have read in the recitals, this is justified by comparison with other countries which also have provisions in two laws. One thing, if I put it simply, is to get organized and the other is to have the task and powers of the police. As it is said, however, we see this as an attachment to everything that the previous government has already found and, last but not least, to the Members and Members who have supported both the proposed laws in the first reading, and due to early elections, as is known, time has run out. If I refer first to comparisons, the law on the tasks and powers of the police should specifically address Britain, Germany, Sweden, Austria, possibly Croatia. These are all countries that have legislation regulated in two laws. In our view, this is a modern, European comparable and transparent law which systematically and comprehensively governs this area. The introductory provisions, of course, only the principled positions, in Chapter 2, of the tasks of the police, are addressed in a comprehensive Chapter 3 and within this Chapter, in general, the police powers, the use of coercive means, police powers for the protection of certain persons and facilities, powers on water, data collection and processing, and reporting and control. It has already been said that these powers are 29. In chapter 4, we read what is written or determined at the legal level in relation to complaints about police work. Chapter 5 contains provisions governing cooperation with the security authorities of other countries. The forms of police work and other content are now regulated under the law and the proposed law becomes part of the legislation. And this seems particularly important to the Social Democrats that this area is also raised to the level of law. It is important to stress the news brought by this bill, namely the definition of police procedure and tactical discretion, the definition of road closure by blocking the point. These tasks described in this Article have already been carried out under Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act. This task will be carried out when serious violations are committed. However, since this is a relatively serious intervention in human rights and fundamental freedoms, it is stipulated that this task will only be carried out under the authority of the Director-General of Police. It also describes the criminal-intelligence activity, the changed conditions for the use of coercive means, the service dog and firearms, the clear distinction between the temporary limitation of movement and the seizure of liberty, the definition of the performance of police duties abroad and the operation of foreign police officers in the Republic of Slovenia, the inclusion of detention time and the clearer and more transparent regulation of the appeal procedure. In view of the fact that the area of police powers at sports events has not been adequately regulated now, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that the importance of the provisions of the two articles, namely those talking about the prohibition of participation in sports events and the travel to sports events, should be further stressed. We have also noted several times in the National Assembly that the area in particular with regard to the cheer groups is not adequately regulated and that other ministries should also be involved in this issue. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are joining the findings of the proposed law, and in particular the proponents of the rejected law of Positive Slovenia, that violations of public order and peace and security by individual fans at sports events are increasingly occurring in Slovenia in recent years, in particular in football games. But we also know that in handball and basketball. Despite the increased activities of the police and other competent inspection bodies, there are occasionally unexpected incidents which have a noticeable turnout in the internal and external public. Well, sometimes accidents at sports events are just an excuse to disagree with other things. Of course, I'm talking about the latest event in Maribor. It is therefore justified to adopt additional legal measures to ensure safety at sports events. Repressive or police action cannot, of course, achieve a comprehensive purpose resulting from the European Convention on the Prevention of Violence and the Decent Conduct of Viewers at Sports Events. It should be noted, however, that effective measures must be applied to those violent visitors who abuse sports events for violent incidents in the face of increasing sports facilities and at the same time popularising sport in Slovenia. The newly created police authority clearly and clearly informs participants of sports events that they may be subject to a specific measure of banning participation in sports events in order to repeat the infringements they will be penalised for. By repealing the prohibition of participation in sports events, the company shall communicate to the individual and the groups the commitment to zero tolerance for violence, which consequently violates the rights of others at such an event. Of course, we could add here some other views of our Group, which were already expressed both last year and this year when the proposal was rejected. Let me draw your attention to one more thing that has already been pointed out by the Positive Slovenia Group, but it is still so important that it is worth repeating. Perhaps, however, the lawmakers will hear it in another way and, given their willingness to take different positions, there is some hope that this will be taken into account in the next proceedings. The information officer made comments on the proposal in March 2011 and September 2012. Some comments were taken into account by the drafter; there were no others. The authorising officer shall assess the drafter of the law, as well as the fact that all the comments and comments made by the authorities involved in the interdepartmental professional coordination cannot always be accepted for fully justified reasons. That's what I read in my opinion. However, it should be noted that the Ombudsman specifically points out that the powers given by the State to a repressive authority such as the police must also be specified by law and only those necessary to achieve public security. Where the objective could be achieved in a way that is less invasive in the rights of individuals, this must be chosen. Therefore, the powers of the repressive authorities should not be laid down in such a broad and general way as to allow them to choose the methods and means by which they should enter into the lives of individuals. Such are the cases of Articles 113 and 114 of the proposal under consideration. To confirm what has been written by the Information Commissioner, I would like to draw your attention, honourable Members, to a further opinion expressed in the previous reference, which is related to the distinguished colleague Darjo Lavtijar Bebler. That's why I'm going to read a piece of her discussion from the magnetogram. However, it refers to some very detailed dissecting of the law under consideration and objecting to the fact that the provisions are too detailed. This is the current Chairman of the Committee on the Interior, the current Minister, and our colleague has replied to these views on detailed treatment: "I am pleased that this is a law that deals with one of the important issues, and this is when, in what cases and in what way and to what extent human rights and fundamental freedoms that are specifically protected in the Constitution can be restricted, in international international acts and also in individual laws, because this matter is divided into more and placed in several laws." In this way, she answered why she felt that it was appropriate for the marriage to be so detailed. Because rights and freedoms can be restricted only for the protection of the rights of others, and police officers can limit these rights to individuals only in cases established by law and law. Therefore, such powers can only be regulated by law and the regulation of interference with rights and freedoms must be laid down in a clear manner, so we must provide adequate and sufficient guarantees to effectively prevent abuses. And that's what this is all about, my respectable colleagues! That it is up to the legislator to write down the provisions in such a way that they are clear and clear that they will prevent abuses, and it is up to the law enforcement authorities to prevent and sanction criminal and criminal offences. And that is also the answer to some’s concerns about the former law. As we say, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support in the first reading the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, but we expect that the improvements I have discussed will also be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police has the ambition to partially replace the existing law on police in 1998, which is a system law and one of the most important repressive laws of this country. The police shall be granted a variety of powers which, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, interfere with fundamental human rights and freedoms. This is precisely why any changes to this law must be addressed with caution and with serious consideration, as the fragile relationship between the effectiveness of the police and the protection of endangered values on the one hand and the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms can be rapidly undermined. However, it is particularly important to carry out appropriate analyses and to attract professionals to the changes, to carry out interdepartmental coordination and to gain the opinion and views of lawyers and police unions. All of this was taken into account in a specific case. Because of the principle of legality, it is important that they are in one place in the future, namely, they are now in the Police Act and in several sub-legislative acts, that they are systematically and comprehensively regulated in future, and specific police tasks and general police powers, including conditions for the use of coercive funds in one place. In the past, police forms have only been mentioned in police rules, and this is now fully transposed into law. In addition to this individual life situation, they require a different approach and a different action by police officers, for example in the event of family violence by means of a restraining measure, sports events by means of a measure prohibiting participation and prohibiting the travel of violent persons to sports events and so on. The law regulates the use of polygraphs, mask covers, introduces the introduction of so-called unfavourable persons, a so-called criminal intelligence activity, and redefines the use of a whole range of police powers and enforcement resources. The Ministry of the Interior has also drafted all the necessary sub-legislative acts at the time of the law, so that the new police legislation has been tabled in full, simultaneously and in one place. The proposal for a law is intersectorally harmonised, and especially for two years it has been coordinated with the interested internal and external public, for the first time published since 13 December 2010. The Parliamentary Group considers that the proposal for a law on police organisation and work is appropriate for further consideration in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us an extremely broad proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police, which, in a qualitative, more professional and more efficient way, regulates the scope of police action, as it combines individual police tasks and general police powers currently defined in individual laws and regulations. In our view, the law follows the constitutional provision of Article 87, which clearly stipulates that the rights and obligations of citizens, which clearly include the regulation of police powers which constitute an infringement of human rights and freedoms, can only be determined by law. We have therefore examined the provisions of the law very carefully in the Slovenian People's Party Group, as we are aware that it is a sensitive area of police powers and tasks which in many cases interfere with fundamental human rights and freedoms protected by the Constitution, and therefore must be professionally justified, clearly defined and unequivocal. Control over possible abuses must therefore be even more effective. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party expect the competent ministry to examine the comments of the information officer concerning the 113th and 114th Act and to supplement the definition of the technical means to be used to intervene in the privacy of individuals, which is certainly the case in such supervision. However, it is a positive news that the draft law explicitly provides for the Minister to issue a regulation on the exercise of police powers after obtaining the previous opinion of the Ombudsman. The latter represents a higher standard of human rights and freedoms, particularly in the part where the police, with their powers, intervene in human rights and freedoms. The bill defines 29 police powers. Among them are two new police powers to ensure safety and order at sports events, namely to prohibit participation in sports events and to stop the trip to the event. In these powers, there was a lot of talk a while ago in the debate on the amendment of the Police Act, which was put into the legislative process by a group of Members, with first-signed Peter Wilfan, and was only about the regulation of police powers in the event of cheering incidents at sports events. We are aware that this is an extremely problematic area; not least, we have a situation right now where police powers in dealing with the last football derby are under the control of a special commission. At that time, however, we rejected the partial regulation of police powers in the light of the fact that a system law on police duties and powers is being drawn up, which will also regulate the scope of powers in accidents at sports events. And this, of course, in addition to the multitude of other solutions, is being applied today in the bill under consideration. From the point of view of limiting interventions to personal freedom, it is also important to provide that the duration of the police procedure until the detention is determined is considered to be during the period of detention. The draft law defines the rights of detained persons, who have so far been largely defined only in the rules. The regulation of the appeal procedure is also clearer and more transparent. The news in the Slovenian legal order also includes road closure with a block point due to complete or selective control of vehicles and persons under precisely defined conditions. For the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, the bill provides more conceptual and systematic identification of police powers and duties and brings some welcome amendments and new provisions as well as additional guardians in the exercise of the powers and duties of the police; therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we assess that the proposal for a law on police duties and powers is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police. Today, two so-called police laws are before us, replacing the current law on police, making police legislation more transparent. First of all, we are engaged in a law on the tasks and powers of the police, which, as already derived from the name, defines the powers of the police, which are largely transferred from the law. The law defines 29 police powers. Among them are two new ones, namely the prohibition of travelling to sports events and the prohibition of participating in these events if the individual has already been sanctioned for disrupting the game, which we particularly welcome in the DeSUS Group. The fact is that the problem of heated fans is very hot, as cheerleading fever is often turned into violence and vandalism, so such fans need to be calmed down and, if necessary, prevented or even removed from the game. With certain police powers, the solutions seek to increase the effectiveness of the police in specific areas of work. The law thus more effectively defines the police's measures regarding the prohibition of approximations imposed by domestic violence, rules the protection of certain persons and facilities, specifies the collection and transmission of data and, as already mentioned, introduces new police powers to prevent violence at sports events. In addition, the proposal for a law also regulates the appeal procedure more clearly and transparently and defines, inter alia, a road closure with a blockade point. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support or support the proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor to prepare Mr Srečko Meh. Mr Jerko Čehovin now has the floor, because I see that he is right in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, I have a number of comments or suggestions on the second law, but here I might only suggest adding to the tasks the carrying out of anti-intelligence activities. I'll explain more later on the second part. Speaking of which, I would just like to say that, although it is commendable and nice, that the proposal prepared by Peter Wilfan has been taken into consideration in terms of powers, but it is obvious that it is more important for us to have someone who proposes, not what he proposes. I think that some recent events could have been avoided if I had already had this law or that authority. Nor would there be any obstacle to the coming of this provision in the new system law. However, this law, which is systemic, is known to be adopted only once a second year in the third reading, and at that time many other things can happen to us in these sports courts. Let me say that our interest will be, above all, that we have the best possible legislation and that we are improving legislation and that we are not changing these matters, which are also very sensitive to citizens, with each mandate. Therefore, it would also be very warmly recommended to take account of paragraphs 113 and 114 in further implementation, as also pointed out by the Information Commissioner. As we say, there are no other major comments to the law itself on our part.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, get Mr. Richard Braniselj ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u82	Dear Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! The first question is why Minister Gorenak is not here today to answer. I am pleased that you are the Secretary of State here, but that Mr Gorenak could respond to his debate almost exactly one year ago in this National Assembly and I have read it today from a magnetogram. At that time, he argued about articles that were not amended today, but there is no time to read it, but it would suggest that what Member Gorenak said and what Minister Gorenak suggests should be reconciled. That seems completely stupid or unfair to me. As a police officer, I believe he's brave enough to come here today to answer that question. That was my first question. In fact, my second question is how is it that the media are on the scene where the investigation takes place, in front of the police, parallel to the police. How can this happen? What's the reason we're doing this? However, if we are doing investigations in which we want to explore everything that happens, the media should record what is probably happening in almost every case that is interesting. I don't think it makes sense, and it's not right. And my third question, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must act extremely delicately or adopt laws that will also allow for police control, control. Are the police protecting our assets, our laws, or working to protect our interests, or are the police overstepping their powers? Of course, I'm for giving the police authority, they have to have them, and I'm sure the cops and the cops are doing well. Of course, we should also be very sensitive here from the point of view of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and everything that is happening here, so that we do not get into a situation where, on behalf of everything that is going on, we are also violating human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr State Secretary has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the question, Commissioner Meh. I would only introductoryly answer his question immediately, why Mr Vinko Gorenak is not present. Simply because he is attending the European Union ministers' meetings in Luxembourg today. That's why he couldn't be here at the same time. On other questions, however, I will try to answer you further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Rihar Braniselj has the floor, Mr Janez Ribič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you, Vice President. I would touch on that part of the law or the solution that is called the banning of participation in events and the prohibition of travelling to a public event. Although I do not agree with my colleague Tonin when he said that this was an identical arrangement, as was the arrangement in the marriage solution proposed by his colleague Wilfan. The Parliamentary Group, however, supported the solution or amendment of the Police Act proposed by its colleague Wilfan. The only one against it was me personally. And it might be possible, if you allow, to do an analysis of why this solution, which is currently envisaged in this law, is for knowledge or much better than the solution proposed by colleague Wilfan. If the implementation of the solution of colleague Wilfan or the implementation of this law were to take place, in fact, police officers would, in this interim period from the implementation of this solution to the implementation of this law, in fact take measures under significantly different conditions than the current adoption of the system law. The second difference is that the proposal for amendments to the former law or law, which is not enforced, did not clearly and accurately define the detention of a person who would not comply with the prohibition order. The next difference is that for such a person who violates this prohibition, a different solution is proposed in both laws. This is said to be a mix-up with criminal policy. In the proposal for amendments to the law, the fellow Member was not clear on how a police officer would order the measure, whereas the system law now specifies this precisely. Vacacio legis of the former law was envisaged for 15 days, which is certainly not enough to carry out the necessary training for all police officers, while vaccio legis of this system law, which is ahead of us, 60 days, which is enough to carry out the necessary training, I think. This kind of training costs around €33,000 after some calculations, which would actually cost extra if two laws were to be enforced in a row. This is about training on two different solutions, which would in fact cause some confusion for police officers and inconsistency and duplication of costs. In the meantime, new forms should also be drawn up before the new law is implemented, which would again lead to additional work and additional costs of approximately EUR 3,4 000. Perhaps today someone will also try to speculate from colleagues, let's say what in this interim time, when these solutions, which we all say is good, and the problem is that the implementation maybe two months later will otherwise be better, that in this case there will be some kind of accident, an event that would have certain consequences and someone would say that is actually the result of you not putting it into law in time. I explicitly object to such hints. The police now have the opportunity to remove any violator of public order and peace from the bus and remove him from the event as soon as he steps out of the inn. So I shouldn't even have the minimum chance of this disruptor appearing at a public event. I trust the police that such cases will severely sanction, prevent the implementation of this solution, which will not be implemented so quickly in terms of training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor, Mrs Janja Klasinc is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police is suitable for further consideration, so I will also support the bill. The draft law defines 29 police powers, including the power to ensure safety and order at sports events, namely to prohibit participation in sports events and to stop travelling to these events for a purpose. This mandate was quite a while ago, so I am glad that we took this into account in this law. It also seems positive to me that the Minister issues a regulation on the exercise of police powers after obtaining a previous opinion from the Ombudsman. Of course, this represents a higher standard of human rights and freedoms. All the innovations brought by the bill are welcome amendments and provisions and additional safeguards in the exercise of police powers and tasks. I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, prepare yourself, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u90	Madam Vice President, thank you. I welcome the representatives of the Government or the Ministry of the Interior. If I have been much more critical in the debate on the previous law on international protection, I can say that I am more pleased to accept the changes in the area of police powers, because I am aware that this area has been regulated perhaps too partially by individual lower acts, by regulations, by instructions and so on. The successful implementation of the police requires legislation in this area. Of course, I think that the instructions of the information officer relating to Articles 113 and 114 of this Act apply with all seriousness. I would like to join all the debaters who have already spoken about this problem before me. In Article 113, it would be interesting to take into account in particular the proposal by the information officer proposing an amendment to the third paragraph, which, according to the Authority, reads: "In the control of road traffic on public roads and on other public surfaces, police may use technical means to detect and prove the exceeding maximum speed allowed at checkpoints and over-average speeds on road sections. Police officers may use the technical means provided for in this law or law governing road traffic rules to identify other offences." In fact, this is a very up-to-date provision, if we know what is happening in Maribor right now and the various concerns about this, so that it has determined as closely as possible with regard to transport arrangements, the recording of traffic is important. It seems even more important both to the information authorities and to the opinion of the 114th section of the bill. The widely understood use of recording and photographing may be highly controversial. In the text, this applies mainly to continuous audio and video surveillance if I want to be precise. The question is, when does something start to be recorded, in which case it should be recorded, because sometimes there may also be recordings of someone who is only involved in an event, meaning unpleasantness or consequences, and then consider the seriousness, which is also noted by the information officer, to destroy various of these recordings if they are not necessarily necessary. I would join in this debate by Mr Meh, where I think that monitoring of the media in police work should actually be regulated. It seems unacceptable to me that there are various media invitations to take part in various investigations where the safety of not only those who are being investigated, their family members or others who are on video, but also those who are investigating can be compromised. If so far it may have seemed irrelevant to the media whether a criminalist is on the tape, for the safety of this criminal, if it is to investigate some dangerous perpetrators of crimes, so that there can also be revenge. It's very sensitive stuff, and I would call the police because I don't see the possibility that anyone other than the police would keep the media informed about certain interesting investigations so they don't do that anymore. The media must be very well informed about matters, but to record matters that are a matter of police investigation is very controversial for me. You won't see that in the world. From afar, they're doing their best, but as an ex-journalist, I can tell you that I also think it's unethical. With regard to sports events, I would leave the floor to my colleagues and colleagues who worked more closely on our proposal for a law that was unfortunately rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I would also like to point out, in particular, the debate at the College at the President of the National Assembly when we discussed the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, where there was a clear desire that on Wednesday these two laws could not be discussed, which are now on the agenda, due to the absence of the Minister for Home Affairs. At that time, I proposed that we could hold this debate on Wednesday even if one of the two secretaries was then available. The reasons were that Thursday would be easier because the minister would be available. But we see that the Minister is not in the National Assembly today, so I really don't know why there is such an unfair attitude towards Members, and not least to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, because we had to decide whether to move the points from Wednesday to Thursday or not. Now we see that the minister looks at this calmly and ignores the warnings we have been giving. With regard to the content of the law itself, I would like to draw attention to Article 1, which speaks very clearly in the second paragraph, that this law is about ensuring the security of individuals and communities, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and strengthening the rule of law. Not long ago, we faced a case where the functioning of the rule of law was also threatened because, in cooperation with other international organisations in the field of police work, it did not react within deadlines which would be necessary to protect the rule of law and all procedures. I will only remind you of Interpol's dispatch to the Crime Police Department in connection with the acquisition of the Patries. One year this dispatch was placed in a drawer and only because of media pressure, however, this process began to unfold and this document somehow withdrew from the drawer, but I do not see any provisions in this law that would, for example, sanction the failure to implement the warnings received by Interpol police. Is this because you believe that this experience that was then in Slovenia is such a nature that it does not have to be considered more seriously, or is there any other reason? I would like clarifications from the competent authorities representing the Ministry today, such as those who are acting as the proposer, to explain whether, however, any provisions should be introduced in this law, which would also sanction such behaviour, and would then be invoked by the National Assembly if international or Interpol depots were not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, Mr Franz Pukšič is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u94	Dear Chairman! Look, when we were preparing for this meeting, there was a debate at the College of the President of the National Assembly on this relocation. Of course, it is very unfair from the Minister of the Interior that today, at this point, the points at which the most comments in the previous term were addressed by this current minister, when he was still a Member of the National Assembly, and it is very interesting to avoid the National Assembly today in order to explain and explain all the necessary changes proposed in the law itself. This is especially interesting because I was convinced at the College of the President of the National Assembly that it is good to change the agenda because it will be impossible for the Slovenian Government to do this because of yesterday's walk through Slovenia, and today it is quite the opposite of what was said. That is why I expect the President to put to the vote, to suspend the meeting and wait for the Minister, because I think that this change on the agenda has been done to him and it is therefore right for us to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have been at the meeting of the College, I understand your procedural proposal, Mr Möderndorfer-respected, but in view of this and in accordance with Article 235(3) of the Rules of Procedure, where it is stated that, at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Government may represent the Minister or Chairman of the Government Service designated by the Government, and in the absence or detention, the Deputy Minister of State or Head of the Authority may represent the Minister of State in the composition of the Ministry and his Deputy Head of Government Service. In view of this Rule and the paragraph of the Rules of Procedure and the fact that the Secretary of State is present, I do not have any commercial argument here alone as President to continue with this point. Of course, this could also in some way have informed the Ministry, or the Secretary of State, that the Minister would have also referred this matter to the Minister for further consideration, so that it would have been extremely desirable at that time that the presence of the Minister was also ensured. Mr. Marolt has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have to explain further, as I said before, that Mr Minister is attending the European Union's internal affairs ministers' meeting in Luxembourg and he left for the meeting yesterday, and that is why he was not here yesterday. My colleague, the secretary of state, was at a government meeting in Zasavje, but I was detained because I had obligations because I was heard in court as a witness, so I was also on vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Puksič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u98	There's no talk of police protection in this marriage. Every time it comes to very serious vandal events, we see that fans aren't injured, and a whole bunch of cops are injured. That is why I think they too will need to be given human rights. I'm afraid I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you. I see that Mr Franz Pukšič is not in the Chamber, so Mr Peter Wilfan has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will talk in particular about the part of this bill that speaks about the so-called cheer theme. And first, I'm gonna go back to history a little bit, if I may say so. Immediately after the new year, somewhere in February, in Positive Slovenia after the first incident in Maribor at an international handball game, we reacted, called a press conference and expressed our disagreement and resentment over what happened there. The next day we have also tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new Law on Police Powers. We wanted a quick procedure, but we were unable to do so, so we decided to put the law into regular procedure. Already, very early in this process, we have received numerous criticisms, perceptions, and even measurements. In fact, this is where the Minister of the Interior, who is not among us today, took the lead. Many of us, especially me personally, even as a common plagiarist, thought of us as forgers and the like. But I will say more about this further when I talk about this proposal that we are talking about today. This proposal then received support at the first reading, it also received support from the Home Committee, i.e. the Committee on Home Affairs, to a great surprise, it also passed all the other trials and came to a third reading and final decision. There was the outcome, as you know, 41:41. Unfortunately, our proposal failed at that time. But I can say that both I and my colleagues are actually proud to have received such a beautiful number of votes. I am not quite sure, but it is probably the largest number of votes received by any opposition proposal in this House. Throughout this process, this is almost 8 months, we have warned and argued that by adopting this law we are in a hurry to miss not a month or two, but we are actually a few years behind. We have also warned and said that if this law is not adopted quickly enough, there is no way that we can accept any responsibility for any incidents, unwanted and unloving events that might have occurred in the meantime. I also warned that all important domestic and international competitions start in football as well as basketball, handball, volleyball and others in autumn, and that the possibility of incidents will be very great, especially in football matches and home football leagues, especially in the derby between Maribor and Olympia. Unfortunately, that's what happened. There were two major incidents, both in Maribor, the first in the city centre before the match against the Greek representative in the Euroliga, which was caused by Greek fans, but had a very wide situation, a very large incident in which police, a special unit of police, police officers on horseback, and even a helicopter were involved in it, and of course not only the participants in the incident were at risk, but also all the passersby who fled to nearby buildings, localities and thus protected themselves so that they wouldn't get any worse. The second incident took place a few days ago at a match between Maribor and Olympia, when an irresponsible fan skipped the fence, ran the whole playground and then threw a hot torch among the visiting Olympic fans who until then, it must be said, calmly and, I would say, normally followed the course of the game until then. Of course, this move then caused real chaos in the Human Garden. Breaking up, tearing up, throwing tables, had to be mediated by the police. The police then emptied this section of the tribunal, which unfortunately also resulted in some injuries, both on one side and on the other, both between the fans and among the police. In fact, once again, I can say, we were lucky that nothing worse had happened, that there had not been any fatalities. Now, in recent days, I have heard several times about this new government proposal, which we have here today in the procedure, that even if we had adopted our proposal in September, which, by the way, would have entered into force in fifteen days, we could not have prevented this incident. I agree that no law, whether adopted or not, can prevent any irresponsible overstretched fan from jumping the fence and then doing what he did, even though in this case security guards who are in charge of that part inside the fence that is blocking the playing surface could do much more. It is true, however, that if this law were adopted in September and had already been enforced, that this fan would probably at least be conscious of the existence of a law that, if he did so, would prevent him from going from doing so for the next period, then we would have proposed from six months to two years, he could go to any sporting event at all. I'd be aware of that, and maybe that's why he wouldn't do what he did. This is the preventive moment that we have also been talking about throughout the adoption of our proposal, and I think it is also so important. I also talked about that the rapid adoption of such a law would be a beautiful sign and all those who visit sports venues, sports matches and others in Slovenia. As far as this fan's concerned, of course, he was hoping to do it. Although he was arrested there, detained, probably within an hour or more. We don't know if he already had a ticket in his pocket for the next game, but he could have got it the next day, which he couldn't if, as I said, our proposal had already been passed. Here we need to know that these rioters who do this often, or most of the time, are already planning such moves in advance and that the only real punishment for them is to prevent them from coming to these sports games or events. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. I agree. In the beginning I talked about responsibility and let me go back to this now, all those who we are and you are, here I must say that our proposal was then given great support by some coalition Members, for which I thank them once again. [[...]] All those we have supported or who you are certainly cannot take responsibility for these events; not for the events that have taken place since the possible adoption of our law, but to this day, nor for the events that may occur – I sincerely hope that they will not - occur at the time of the adoption of this proposal. This will certainly not be earlier than in a few months, given that it is a regular procedure; and then the time needed for the implementation of measures into police work, the preparation of computer applications, forms, the conduct of police education, we are practically deep in 2013. Unless, of course, all the allegations of these problems and problems that have been raised throughout the process of adopting our proposal by the Secretary of State may have served only to convince some of you that our proposal is not good and is not suitable for admission. And by persuading you, he transferred to you — those who voted against it at the time — part of his responsibility. Here I am referring to those 41 Members who did not support our proposal, not because of professional concerns, but mainly because of political concerns, because it was not properly signed, were not signed, was not a real party or an option in this Parliament which proposed this law. Here I am also referring to a few individuals who have not taken part in the vote for such or other reasons. As regards the content of your proposal and our proposal, I believe that the proposals are very similar. They're not identical, they're clearly defined differences that a careful reader will surely find and find out, and I've seen some. But it's basically a very similar proposal. All the signs we received or received from our proposal automatically fall into the water, referring to human rights violations, non-compliance with legislation, and especially that plagiarism and counterfeiting mentioned in the introduction. It is also true that both our proposal and the government are very similar to what was once before before in this House, but was not adopted in another term in the previous term for certain reasons. We in Positive Slovenia, because this is the case, will not accidentally blame you with any inappropriate terms or accusations. If I respond to some further discussions. Mr Tonin said our proposal was non-systematic. The Police Act is also a system law, currently in force, because our proposal was only a supplement to this law. This law lays down in its first article the situation of the police in subsequent cases, as well as its tasks and powers, which must always be laid down by law. Therefore, the argument that our proposal for a law on the powers of the police in the case of cheerleading incidents was unsystematic is that I cannot accept it. As for Mr Branisli's debate, which says that the law is not identical. No, they're not identical, but they're very similar. Indeed, all that is different from our proposal and is in this law, we could also bring peace with the amendments into our proposal and we would be happy to accept it. We've been stressing that all along. Last but not least, we met with the Ministry's representative in March when you suggested that we withdraw our proposal, and you said that your proposal at the May session would say that we would do so if this proposal really came to the May session; but it was not in May, it was not in June and not in September. Finally, let me just say what we have always said in Positive Slovenia that we are only interested in adopting as soon as possible what is now called a fan law, but this is a law on police powers. And no matter who his trigger is, who's under it. That is why I will be alone, and I believe that my colleagues and colleagues, too, will be involved in this proposal of yours for a follow-up procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. I see he's not in the hall. Mag. Borut Ambrožič, followed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll be brief. While considering that the proposed amendments proposed by fellow Member Wilfan at the time could already be adopted, I will still vote favourably for the proposal now on the table and I will confirm the proposed amendment or bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Get ready, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I have to say again that I regret that there is no minister, especially because there has been so much playing and moving to college with regard to this relocation of the agenda. I still don't understand why they moved it. I don't know if this is what the President of the National Assembly is doing on his own, given that he was defending that he can do with the agenda what he wants, and given that I assume that this proposal was given by the Government – simply the left hand doesn't know what he's doing on the right. Well, we're used to it anyway. However, if I go to the debate myself, let me say that the bill before us, particularly in that part of the chapter, where we are talking about the supervision of the exercise of police powers on the appeal procedure, is also governed by this part, which we also welcome, that, within the time that a police officer in the field, whenever a complaint has taken place, he must always report, there is a kind of mini mediation process in this part, where it may be a kind of conciliation phase, which those who regulate that part of the appeal are trying to see what is and what has not happened, and then also report up. However, there are two dilemmas that open up to me; one is the proportion of what it is when we say in this part that there are some types of complaints – the procedure is carried out by the Ministry, but it can also empower the chairman who is on the ground to lead this part of the procedure. And what dilemma could arise? That the director is in some way also subordinate to the minister and can have a friendly relationship because he also appointed him to this position. How can this issue be addressed in order to be more clear or consistent so that there is no conflict of interest or any other kind? Another problem that arises is how to exercise this control at all. You know there's always a problem when there's a complaint. At least in the part where the event reports take place through call center 112, 113, where all the conversations are also recorded and everything can be verified, there is no problem because it is possible to do reconstruction of the event itself, the application and everything else. However, a serious problem arises when someone who thinks he has been wronged — I will cite the case that I listened to on Saturday on Radio Hit, and you can listen to it yourself at the Ministry, review what really happened in this case — when the injured person calls the police station, the telephone number, where this conversation was not recorded and we do not have any evidence of what was actually going on in this conversation. This case of Radio hit was published on Saturday, where the victim says there was a car accident. I was shocked to hear that, but I don't know if it's true, because I can only skeptically guess yes or no, because I don't even know what the epilogue was like. Nor would I want to do injustice in advance to the ministry or the police, but I would be very happy if you could explain how you solved this case — not specifically, but how you solve such cases. In fact, the victim called the police station to see if there was a traffic accident, including physical injuries. For more than 20 minutes there was no call, he called the police station again, and he received a shameless response not to bother and wait, in short, in the sense that he is not the only one in this world. Of course, since this still hasn't happened, there was a third call, and in the end the police came from another police station, this is Bezigrad, and they also carried out the matter and carried it out as necessary. But it didn't end at this point. She ended her complaint. And here's the problem. Whose word applies when we don't have proof material, we only have the power of an official word, and in the end the whole thing turned out to be, and the injured person himself says in a statement that he can never prove it, and the policeman who spoke on the phone at the time says that it never happened and that it never happened. So how can we solve such a question within the appeal procedure when we do not have any evidence; we only have the power of an official word against a natural person who becomes powerless in such a process because there is dialogue and there is no witness. Therefore, it would be very interesting to see how within the marriage we can resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor, prepare yourself [[...]] Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have a proposal that is not bound to procedure, but I can't say it as procedural. I'm observing, and today the session will be quite long, for some microphones to deliver and beep extremely. This is what happened now with Mr Möderndorfer, and I noticed this with my microphone. According to what they say, a long session, please, if the maintenance can hear us and somehow arrange it, because for us who are here, it's very disturbing, but I don't know how you hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kociper, for your suggestion. We immediately referred the matter to the professional services so that this matter could be resolved. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor to prepare for Mr Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President. When we talk about the law on police tasks, we cannot pass the very important word "trust". Trust is what's most valuable and most important. In the past, unfortunately, there have been many times when we had doubts that we were all somehow interfering with the work of the police. With this, normally, the police were just losing their reputation and their integrity. Therefore, I would expect that this law, which is finally one of the few laws, is introduced into the parliamentary procedure following a regular procedure to regulate all the necessary minorities and details that will prevent any interference with the autonomy and independence of our police. That's what we all want. Sometimes a rabbit runs, sometimes a fox. Therefore, we must not adapt the law to any political option; sooner or later, we will all be on our own. Therefore, it is right to leave our police to carry out their tasks absolutely independently and with complete absolute autonomy. What bothered me in the past was that a number of actions that did not take place in absolute secrecy were to be dragged and dragged or nothing happened. Any action taken by our officers, even in international cooperation, has been successful. After a few years, after eight, ten and twelve years, it happened. Whatever happens when they walk the TV cameras, then the mountain shakes, a mouse is born. Then it is normal for citizens and citizens to feel as if it were all together, I will say, backed up and then attacked by someone other than politicians or politicians. We shouldn't have let that happen. Then in the marriage, we have an extraordinary opportunity to protect the police as well. We know that in a number of actions, police officers are the victim because we know who they're dealing with. We call the police when we're in trouble, when we're being harassed by aggressive people or by people who are in some kind of condition, I'll say, somehow disturbed or inappropriate. At that time, of course, a police officer was very much at risk. Here and now we have the opportunity to protect our police officers because too little or too little is said about the rights that police officers have. Most often, when exposed, they are convicted or accused of acting in one way or another or of overstepping their powers at some point. I'd like to see those who judge police officers as they act at some point when they have to judge whether an aggressive person has one or another weapon and will use it or not use it, whether he has a plastic gun or has a real gun and threatens to do so. You need to get yourself into a position as a police officer. Fortunately, I've had quite a bit of experience with the police, and I have quite a few friends who are employed in our police department. I have talked to them several times about these different situations, and I know that they are often, given how much they are paid, how little they are paid for, how much they put into their jobs, or how much they risk. Their families are also concerned when after various actions, night actions, and various unpopular situations. Therefore, the principle of equal treatment, the principle of legality in the exercise of police powers, the principle of proportionality, the principle of professionality and integrity in terms of strengthening the integrity of our police is very welcome. As for the fact that our colleague, Peter Wilfan, has pointed out, I am very pleased that this law has also taken into account and included everything that he has also introduced as the first-signed one, so that we will also get this unresolved situation settled, I hope that soon. The law with such corrections, even in this direction as I have of course implemented today, would foresee that by the conclusion of the adoption, the system law will be regulated, and that we will not change it every year, but that it will hold for at least as long as it has kept this law, which we are changing or upgrading, I will say. And, of course, I will support the marriage as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Pišek, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Finally, there is a law before us that we all agree is suitable for further consideration and in which there are no objections according to individual articles. This, except that we do not agree on whether the Minister's presence is necessary or not. I don't think so, because we have the Secretary of State here and his other associates and they know the problem. This law quite accurately defines police powers and their tasks. One of these is the provisions on technical protection and monitoring of matters. It is reasonable to use this issue in today's development of technology, even if in this way, as the information officer thinks, we cannot precisely define and specify procedures. In practice, things like this and things like this happen, and that's why you can't predict everything. And it makes sense and also normal that some things are written more generally. Personally, I don't worry too much about this, because sometimes I prefer some human rights less with me and I like some security on the other hand. I think that makes sense for most citizens. This is mainly feared by those who break the law. After all, I'll say we don't have to worry too much about any complaints. It is also important that the law specifically provides that only those owned by the police or official bodies may be used for technical means. This means that there can be no abuse, some unauthorized recordings with their private phones, cameras, and so on. And of course this distribution is then online. I also like the provision, or one part, that talks about data exchange, or criminal data collection and transmission, or criminal data collection and transmission. Earlier, police officers were working or reviewing certain matters at one end, on the other hand, they were not competent in another area, and other criminals sought or reviewed the same cases with the same perpetrator, thus spending time and money. For this reason, the exchange of information is necessary, and again, I say, if this makes it possible to have some unauthorized view of a criminal in a matter that is not of concern to him. Everyone is committed to the observance of laws, and he also realizes that he will not be able to forward it further before his consideration. Personally, I would like to be able to define another area a little bit more, but even in the world it is not too much research and recognition, which is a polygraph. According to some studies, the degree of accuracy is quite high, but since it is not recognised outside, it cannot be and will not be with us. But I think as soon as possible, technology will also allow this and not only voluntary polygraph testing, but also manual testing. Of course, both I and I are in favour of going to further consideration of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin – won't you discuss it? Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u112	Good-bye! Allow me to add a few more thoughts in the debate on the bill, and I will not go into the details that I think will be sufficient in the next procedure if there are any indiscretions or important differences to incorporate them within the law. A police officer must know the rules governing his or her powers and at the same time expect his or her assistance and also anticipate his or her compulsory action when acting contrary to the law. We can all probably agree that the easiest thing to do is to have one law regarding the duties and powers of the police, not 10 different laws and one ton of sub-legislative regulations, and from this point of view it is likely that this law is essential for the work of police officers. As has been said many times, today the police face the rights and responsibilities of individuals and their organisations directly every day, interfering with the sensitive area of freedom and privacy, which is generally regulated by legal standards. In conflict situations, police are the first factor to step into the so-called crime scene and then everything happens in seconds. Although the final word has a court, but then it lasts, for I say, at the beginning of the proceedings usually happens very quickly, something urgent to protect either the safety of people or probably the property. Therefore, the police must be well equipped, not only with material and technical means, which is likely to be discussed primarily in the next law, but also with legal knowledge. This marriage, as I said before, brings benefits in this area. In my opinion, the essence of the law lies in Article 1 of the bill, and if you allow me to quote it: "Police carry out tasks and powers under the provisions of this law in order to ensure the basic duties of the police, which include: ensuring the security of individuals and communities, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and strengthening the rule of law." Thus, in carrying out his work, the police officer is again, as I said earlier in the position of the parliamentary group, between the hammer and the adversarial or the thin limit in their operation, while they become heroes or, on the other hand, they may become even guilty or fools because of their actions. While most police powers and tasks are transferred from the regulations of the law, this means that the individual rules of the regulation are incorporated into the law itself and this needs to be absolutely supported and consequently the rules of the law are being reduced. Maybe just a few basic principles why I'm going to support the law. The proposal for a law provides for clearer and more transparent regulation by introducing basic concepts in the handling of police powers. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, a police procedure is defined and clear conditions are laid down for the use of general authorisation. For the first time, general principles for the performance of police tasks are laid down. More specifically, the performance of our officers' duties abroad and their functioning within the European Union are provided for. These tasks are significant, and it is also important that, in certain police powers, the solutions seek to improve the effectiveness of the police, which I believe is the task or effort of all of us to make the police as effective as possible in their work, and that is to say, in reducing all criminal or criminal offences in our country. The bill also defines the police's measures regarding the prohibition of approximation, since we have repeatedly had, at least in the social field, these cases, when we are repeatedly at some border, what does the restraining order even mean. More specifically, measures on domestic violence are introduced, new police powers are introduced to prevent violence at sports events, regulate the protection of certain persons and facilities, and define the collection and transmission of data more precisely. When I read the bill with special interest, I myself read these provisions on preventing violence at sports venues, the so-called ban on participation in sports events and the interruption of travel, which has already been a lot of talk today. I think that we will all agree that our assurances are being fulfilled – and we do not look here at political belonging – that this area will be regulated and that they are – which is the difference with Mr Wilfan's proposal – in this proposal, the comments already made by the Legislative and Legal Service have not been taken into account in the previous proposal. It is also gratifying to finally get in our legal order a law dealing with violence at sports events. We know that many fans will probably not be satisfied with this law, even the transparent ones clearly show them – but I say they are not real fans, they are hooligans. And I'm not just going to talk about the last case that's been said many times since the game was the two biggest rivals – even abroad it happens a lot. Maybe another sentence. This law has 167 articles, for Mr Wilfan's proposal, I think he had four articles together, and two were the ones that must be an integral part of every law. So the difference is pretty obvious, so we can really say that this is a systemic solution, and that was a minimal or partial solution. Once again, I say what I have said about Mr Wilfan's bill: not even the best law in the world can solve or prevent any incident. We have a director, we have cops, and then we have cops who want to act, and on the other hand, we have this human rights clause right now, and here are usually cops, I'll say, some victims, not those who should prevent victims. It's probably going to wake up at least some imagination of a new police mandate that I read with interest, which is a roadblock. I admit, I did not know that this authority does not exist in our legislation, but I hope that it will not be used too often; film producers prefer to do so. With this mandate, the police have been given the power to place a roadblock with a lockpoint due to complete or selective control of vehicles and persons under specified conditions. A very interesting mandate, I hope that it will not happen many times, but in those times of crisis it is only right that police officers have a mandate to prevent any criminal or other bad stories in Slovenia. I could talk about other powers, especially I have the feeling that we have not talked enough about the powers and duties of the police when violence occurs, especially domestic violence. In addition to this law, there is a great deal of attention to be given in other areas of the law, so I am very pleased that this law specifies very precisely what domestic violence is or how police officers can do in these cases. Maybe it's about the start of a procedure. As we all know, the procedure began, and we started talking about it in 2010 – that is, the former government. The law is a derivative of that bill, according to my information there about 80, 90%, but as always and in practice, the devil is in detail. I believe that in these two years these details have been so crystallized that the law will indeed receive minimum corrections, if any, as the content is very good. Perhaps to conclude, I agree with the statements made by some colleagues, I think that Mr Misic spoke, or Mr Brulc, about the safety of police officers. We are always talking about the safety of all our citizens, but we are forgetting the safety of our officers, who are the ones who should protect, but sometimes forget that their safety is neglected. Police officers appear to be some sort of incassants, devils in blue and so on, and in fact their tasks are completely different in three quarters, so their safety is an important aspect when we think about this security. They often forget their human rights and become themselves a weaker party in procedures. Therefore, it is right that this law also gives the police, I will say, some tasks to protect themselves in addition to all other citizens. And this is also an important aspect of why I will support this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has a candidate, that is, the Government. Mr. Secretary of State, will you answer some questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Initially, I would like to point out that I am very pleased, because if I understand correctly, in fact, everyone, both the coalition and the opposition, supports this police legislation and you will unanimously confirm it if I understand this debate correctly. As for individual questions, I will try to answer them; I apologize if I forget anyone. I would like to begin with the questions raised by the honourable Member of the Magi. You're wasting it. Here I would like to point out that the law on the tasks and powers of the police brings greater security and greater respect for human rights, as it stipulates that the Minister of the Interior issues the Rules on Police Powers after obtaining the previous consent of the Ombudsman, which is an important novelty that has not been presented so far, and I have already presented it in the introduction. With regard to the question raised by the honourable Member of the Czech Republic regarding intelligence activities, I must point out that the practice of the police so far shows that criminalisation and evaluation of information is not regulated in such an optimal manner as to enable effective work in this area. Therefore, this solution is proposed, which makes it clear that the police will acquire and evaluate relevant information, and it is also duly explained in the law what criminal intelligence is, that criminal activity should not be provoked by criminal activity and other activities, so this is somehow regulated in the law now. The issue of house investigations and media information during house investigations was raised. In doing so, I must strongly point out that the police do not inform the media of the planned activities. The media is not informed by the police about specific operational activities, as the police are working professionally and even in the interest of police work is that the media is not informed, that police and police officers are not exposed, that criminals and criminals who are strictly professional, careful, conscientious and responsible are not exposed to their work. Who informs the media – this is not from the police. Here we can only assume or speculate that the media is informing the parties or those who are in the process, whether lawyers or other citizens, or who are suspected of seeing certain activities. Because, once again, the police don't inform the press. It is true, however, that after a concrete action has been completed, the police will also inform the media after a concrete operation, but following completed procedures. For, as Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič mentioned, it is our interest to protect the identity of police officers and police officers and criminals who carry out specific work. With regard to the question raised by honourable Mr Webra regarding international cooperation, cooperation in the framework of Europol, Interpol, I must stress that at the Ministry of the Interior we are very aware of the need for quality and effective international cooperation within the framework of international police organisations. That is why the law on the organisation and the work of the police also establishes the national unit of Europol and therefore gives special emphasis to this. With regard to some specific procedures, as you mentioned, regarding depots, depositing depots, I don't know exactly what you were thinking about specific procedures. Of course, this is a matter of both disciplinary and criminal responsibility for the police. However, this is now properly regulated in existing legislation. With regard to the question raised by Mr Brulco, Commissioner for the Protection of Police and Police, I would like to stress here that this is more systematically defined by the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, both as regards protection, as regards menaceed police officers, legal aid, psychological assistance, compensation for injuries and so on, which will then be presented under another law. The considerations were expressed with regard to Articles 113 and 114 of the draft laws and the opinion of the information officer. In our view and in the opinion of the profession, I am talking about the profession in the Ministry of the Interior and especially the profession in the Slovenian police, i.e. those who are operationally working in these police procedures, there are valid and legitimate reasons for keeping the content of Articles 113 and 114 in the proposed dictatorship. And here, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain a little more. In the first paragraph of Article 113 of this Act, it is mainly a copy of Article 54, paragraph 7, of the Police Act now in force, and an important obligation is added for the funds used in the police force. In the third paragraph, it is a copy of Article 54, paragraph 8, of the Police Act and, for reasons of greater legal certainty, a deadline has been added for the deletion of data which was not previously established. It is also true that the use of audio and video recordings is solely related to the specific performance of police tasks, the demonstration of offences and criminal offences and the identification of offenders and perpetrators, as set out in Article 113(1) and (3), and is not generally preventive. Therefore, it is exclusively the performance of the tasks which the police are obliged to carry out under the law. Control over the functioning of these provisions under existing arrangements has already been established and is operational and abuses have not yet been detected. Therefore, we do not consider that further determination of the resources, as proposed by the information officer, is necessary, as it is based on the proposal for a law on technical means, on photographing and on audio and video recording, and on technical means to identify or identify persons, vehicles and objects used by the police. Here I must point out that the same regime has the same effect for most European police. With regard to Article 114 of the draft law, the first paragraph of this Article concerns the copying of Article 54 of the Law on Police now in force and the addition of a guardian is made in Article 113 of the law so that police officers can only use the funds used in the police force, which is to prevent police officers from exercising police powers from recording either their private mobile phones and other private audio and video equipment. It is not negligible that recording the exercise of police powers also ensures greater legal security for persons in police procedures. Their assistance makes it easier to identify the actual situation in the event of a citizen's disagreement with the police procedure, as mentioned by honourable Member Möderndorfer. A police officer is responsible for the security of a detained and detained person from being placed in a detention facility until release, and it is through video surveillance that police officers have successfully prevented suicide attempts in detention facilities several times in the past. Video surveillance also allows for the veracity of alleged mistreatment of a detained or detained person. In addition, it is important that the Ombudsman has already recommended several times to equip all detention facilities with video surveillance devices as soon as possible in order to verify more effectively the alleged ugly or inhumane treatment of detainees. In the second paragraph, the use of those technical means shall be added in order to ensure the effective security of persons and property in monitoring public gatherings if, on the basis of circumstances, mass violations of public order or crime can be expected. It is, therefore, those public gatherings where there is a possibility of damage or threat to goods being protected by carrying out a police task. I must also point out that the time limit for the storage of the video referred to in Article 128 is precisely necessary to verify the legality and competence of the conduct or omission of police officers in appeals, criminal proceedings, damages and other proceedings. We are convinced and the profession is convinced that these are valid reasons why we cannot adopt the proposals of the Information Commissioner on the deletion of Article 114(1) of the Law, which has also been explained and clarified. Now, with regard to the additional question raised by honourable Mr Misic, Gaspar Gaspar Mišić, we would also stress that the law on the organisation and work of the police and the law on the tasks and powers of the police have been written – if I am now talking about both laws also because he has highlighted both laws – also with the aim of greater protection of the police. Therefore, this attention to the protection of police officers is particularly given by the provision on the use of a mask covering while performing police duties in cases where police officers may be at risk. So it's in the interest of protecting police, police, criminals and criminals. And, of course, we have also listened to this segment and in practice listen to the proposals and initiatives of the competent unions. It has also been pointed out that in some cases or in individual cases nothing will happen after police action for many years, as the honourable Member has pointed out. It should be pointed out that the police are the first step in the forecasting process, and therefore the police are paying great attention to professional training, education, with particular emphasis on the search for economic crime, which will be needed and will certainly be served on additional training and education activities. Of course, there is a further problem with the judiciary, both the prosecution proceedings and, above all, the court, when in many cases they are dragged in unreasonablely long and fail to reach a judicial epilogue within a reasonable time. Here I would point out that the Slovenian police can say that they are doing well, quality; that police officers and police officers, criminals and other employees are doing their job professionally and responsibly; of course, they will be doing even more effectively, i.e. from police activities, police action to jurisdiction, they will also need to amend the law on criminal proceedings and prepare a new, modern law on criminal procedure, so that these procedures will be shorter, more effective and that matters will also be given a judicial epilogue within a reasonable time. In addition to the case raised by honourable Member Möderndorfer, he mentioned a case on the radio. This case will be examined by the professional services, so I thank you for this warning. As I understand it, the issue of proving or exercising the rights of this citizen was raised so that he did not receive an appropriate response and so on. This is precisely the solution, as I mentioned earlier, in the proposed article 114 of the bill proposed by the author for deletion, namely that police officers should use the technical means of photographing and audio and video recordings used by the police to monitor the legality of the exercise of police powers. It is therefore a matter of enhancing the legal security of both the police and the legal security of persons in police proceedings, or of persons in need of assistance or assistance from the police. In this way, greater legal certainty can be ensured for all participants in the proceedings. Finally, it may have been pointed out that a different view of amended police legislation has been expressed, since it has been evident that the distinguished Minister, Dr Gorenak, has a different view than that of the opposition Member of the previous term. Allow me to suggest that you check the magnetogram of his position as an opposition MP in the previous mandate when dealing with police legislation, because the then minister, pardon, current Minister of the Interior and then the opposition Member did not have significant comments on the content of the draft law on the duties and powers of the police, but in particular on the content of the second law, the organisation and work of the police, which we will consider below. On the other hand, as far as this is concerned, as regards the proposal by the law of honourable Mr Wilfan, I think that Mr Branisel has already given a reasoned and reasoned response to why the solutions in his law were different, that the solutions were not adequately amended in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In this text of the law, the text is appropriately improved, quality, and, if you would like to conclude again, I thank you all for their express support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, for your answers. With this, I note that all the debaters you wanted to do so have also received the floor. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please? Do you have a replica or something? Otherwise, they'll be sharing time now. It's a replica. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I would just like to comment on Mr Marolt's initial implementation of information leaks on media information when the police leave for some house investigation. You know, I believe that certain actions are well-known to certain police officers or police officers and that it is accurate to know who has certain information. But what's interesting is that the media and the cameras are on the stand permanently before the police get to the scene of the investigation. It's a little disturbing, but this, look, this throws a bad light and reduces the credibility of the police and all I want as a citizen and today as an MP is to raise the reputation of our police. Finally, the reputation of our country in the international space also depends on the reputation of our police and credibility. Therefore, I would like to see a case in the future, if only possible, of this impact and this intervention in information that only police officers conducting a particular investigation can have – that this is no longer happening, that there is greater attention or greater control over individual actions to be carried out. If not, you know, it's a deranged thing. The whole action is somehow reinforced – and then we throw the bone into the public, that the public should literally process and deal with whether it is this political option, whether it is another political option, or who served or planted something. The Slovenian police can't afford that. Slovenian police, I just wish our police were respected to have a reputation. I remember when I was in high school when you saw a uniformed police officer, you had some kind of relationship and respect. Today, unfortunately, young people, when you watch them and the attitude towards the police is no longer the same as it used to be. The officer was respected and must also be a respected person today. Every person in this country who wears a uniform must be respected, especially police officers, who often risk their lives to save citizens and citizens and to protect themselves in their actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I understand that all the debaters you wanted got the floor. Given that time remains available, the time set for this point, I wonder if anyone else will report to the word when sharing the remaining time. I don't think so. Mr Secretary of State, of course I give you my word. Clearly, there is no other desire for discussion. You want to answer that? Mag. Robert Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. I would answer to the honourable Member, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music. I would like to point out once again that the police never issue house investigation locations. This is assured to me by my colleague and colleagues who are here, that this is not what the police report is about. However, we know that the house investigation order and other measures are being decided by the investigating judge on a proposal from the prosecutor. Thus, the investigating judge is also aware, and then the prosecutor, who leads and directs the predestination procedure, is informed. Therefore, I can only point out that the police do not inform the public. Once again, the police, after an action has been completed or the press release or the press conference is convened. And that's not what the police are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Even though I asked you earlier, I'll still give you some time and I'll open the list and then sign in, because one time, another time. I'm opening the list, and please sign in. Check in. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u120	I am pleased with the Secretary of State's response regarding the police and the public and the media that are there. In any case, however, I take this opportunity to protest that when individual cases are being investigated in the evidentiary process, the media are waiting for the investigators to get there. So I don't think it's good, it's not good, and it's not good for the spirit itself, because then the media gets the material. Of course, this does not mean that the media should not be informed, but that they should be informed when the procedures are in place at the right time or in the right order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u121	Really, I admit I haven't been following the session all along since I was out, but if you think you need a replica [[...]] Here you go, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I was just about to make a procedural complaint, because I really just wanted to replicate to the Secretary of State, because I have already completed my debate. In short, Mr Secretary of State, the topic you have opened with Mr Misic is very relevant. I also have a problem with what's going on lately, and it doesn't seem right to me that you just swung your left hand and blamed it for what's going on with the prosecution and the court. Whoever is to blame for these violations is wrong, even if it is in court or the prosecution or the police, the same criteria apply. However, it is likely that many more people are familiar with the police when individual investigations will be carried out than in the prosecution and the court. There's no doubt about that. Major investigative actions can also be reported by 100 or more police officers. So I think just to say that it certainly doesn't come from the police, but from the prosecution or the court, it's not right. I don't want to Parliament with you right now, it doesn't make any sense. I would only ask that all levels respect these fundamental human rights and that in cases where violations occur, wherever they occur, everything is done to ensure that the perpetrators are found and that this prevents abuses for the future, that is all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u124	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! I'll be brief in my debate. I just want to point out a few things. I say that I will support this law on the tasks and powers of the police, for a number of reasons in particular. The first reason is because the current Police Act has been amended several times since 1998, but in view of all the changes in our society, especially when human rights and fundamental freedoms are still at stake, is that it must be overwinded in some parts of it. Thus, we now have before us this proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police, which covers the complex content of police powers. We all know that the basic task of the police is to ensure respect for the rule of law, with respect for human rights, of course. The main objective of the police is to verify compliance with the rules and guidelines, but the performance of the organisation and of the individual must also be pursued through the supervisory activity, which we have been concerned about today several times. The police also focus their activities on efforts to provide citizens with quality security services. But it can happen very quickly that the uncontrolled use of police methods threatens human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are inseparably linked to democracy and the rule of law and which often make us justifiable and advocate our rule of law. For me, this new regulation, which also regulates the criminalization and evaluation of information as a process of collecting, evaluating and analysing personal and other data on the criminal activity of natural and legal persons and criminal associations in relation to the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences, cross-border organised or economic crime with significant property damage and crimes involving elements of violence and corruption, is among the main solutions regulated by the law, which is now a great deal and is now set out in Article 11 of this law. As we know, the police have already provided assistance to state authorities in carrying out their tasks, as set out in the new proposal in Article 12 of the bill. Let me just say, for example, from practice, that police assistance has been served and is still being used by state authorities and inspection services, other inspection services in our country. We have also been tax inspectors when we inspected the grey economy and black work mainly in the construction sector, when it was observed that workers in these construction sites were black, mainly from the former Yugoslav republics, along with labour and market inspections, in some cases asked the police for help in the sense of resisting these people, or if they might be themselves threatened as authorised persons in carrying out this inspection. I therefore welcome the more precise regulation of this area, as we know that the use of firearms as the worst means of enforcement is only possible for a policeman. Other inspection bodies, state inspection bodies under current legislation shall not be permitted to carry firearms or are not legally regulated in such a way as to enable an authorised person to carry them. I must also say that we have always worked well with the police in such actions, and their work has also been done professionally. Finally, I, like everyone else, expect the legality and expertise of police officers to be better guaranteed. That our police officers are doing their job responsibly and well, and that in fact the criminal procedure needs to be changed also in the work, that procedures be resolved within a reasonable time and that they will receive a judicial epilogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I would also like to express my concern first of all about the work that some of my predecessors have already expressed, namely recording at certain events. It is only that I must also say this clearly and loudly that I am and will always be against such means of control and even so open the possibility of abuse of this control. The other thing that I would like to mention is the one that we talked about and which I don't think is funny at all, and we need to be aware that none of the media has their own intelligence service. Which means that all the information about the procedures that are going on, about the house investigations and the like, is getting away where this tick begins, this process is being decommissioned. So the information's getting out of there. I wouldn't be so concerned about this fact, and I wouldn't hope to argue that it doesn't come from the police types, but simply, if I were to say very harshly, what you said, Mr Marolt, in fact, you've somehow turned your responsibility to the prosecution or to the investigating judge. In short, the fact is that information is leaking, and the fact is that this information is leaking on purpose and is always connected to certain persons, as is the case in journalism, when an event is interesting. So, what's newsworthy is that we know what it is. If a flower pot fell on someone's xy head, of course it wouldn't be as interesting as falling down on a minister or an MP. The same can then be said if the house investigation is with an anonymous person, it is certainly a completely different story than if the house investigation is with anyone else who is very well known by the public and may even play a political role or even a role in political accounts. We understand each other because I expect to hear this speech, of course, also from Mr Jerovsk, who will come forward with a familiar subject, but we will listen, of course, but there have been other gentlemen here, from Mr Zidar to Mr Bavčar and so on. In short, I personally find this really inappropriate. I think the police should do more to find out where the information's coming from and how it's coming from. Because the media really has a lot of power, but, for God's sake, not like that again! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you, Vice President. The basic mission of the police is to protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is right that all those who protect us also receive our respect. However, in order to be respectful and credible and to have even more confidence, you need to understand – at least my debate was intended to do so – in order to actually protect the reputation of the police. What's going on is leaking information, whether it's coming from the police or coming from the prosecution or the court, is less important. The important thing is that all the burden falls on the reputation of the police. The Ministry of the Interior must first and foremost protect the reputation of the police. How will you achieve this – I believe you have methods to protect yourself. Control, control and once again proper surveillance. We must not let this happen to us in the country, that it will all stand out as some kind of political performance, now it has happened, anyway, and then, normally, the reputation of the country is very distorted. We must be, as Mr. New Police Director Stanislav Veneiger wrote in today's article, that he wants to have colleagues who trust them in key places in the police. We, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, want to put our trust in every police officer and police officer, in everything, headed by the Director General of Police and all those in his service, as well as others, with the police related state authorities, justice, the prosecution and so on. If we don't trust in the rule of law, justice, then I don't know where we're going. So let us understand, Mr Secretary, honourable Mr Marolt. This debate is precisely why it has also stalled a little bit, but I think it is well-intentioned. This time, the opposition has no bad intentions, and it never does. The opposition intentions are always positive and good, but unfortunately they are not understood and heard in the right way. This time, I want you to understand this as a positive message. We politicians are obliged to protect the sovereignty of the state, to protect the reputation of our police. If we do this, it will certainly happen in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. And the last one I give him a word about is mag. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. I'm sorry if you may have misunderstood me. I just wanted to answer the suggestions of honourable Mr Meh because I understood that he thought the police were informing the media about the house investigations. I replied only to this and only warned that data or information could be leaked to the public or to the media from all three stakeholders. I just explained the procedure that the police can't just, ad hoc, conduct a house investigation until they have orders from an investigative judge. However, for the order of the investigating judge, a proposal must be made to the investigating judge by the state prosecutor who directs and directs the pre-trial proceedings. So I just said that the police are only one of the three stakeholders in this process. However, I would strongly support the fact that there is a risk that information is also leaking from the judiciary, from the types of prosecution. My colleagues have now informed me that we even have an open trial or a specific case where a staff member or employee in one of the courts in Slovenia has issued planned police activities to the perpetrators. Look, this suspicion suggests that it's not all the police or the police or the police or the police or the criminals, no matter how familiar they are. That is why I wanted only, as honourable Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič said, to defend the reputation of the police, to defend the reputation of police officers and police officers, because it is kind of uncomfortable to listen to the obvious, czech, but now the police are guilty, police officers, criminals, if a newspaper house was present somewhere. Once again, Slovenian police don't want the media, they don't want cameras in their specific operational work, they want to do their job in peace, carry out their task, their actions, and, of course, after the end of the campaign, inform the media. I am truly sorry if anything has been misunderstood, but the police are not the only stakeholders in this process before carrying out the specific tasks of the house investigation or other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. No, there's no replica to that, and there's no time-sharing, there's no replica, and there's no time-sharing anymore, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON ORGANISATION AND WORK IN THE POLICE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The aim of the draft law on police organisation and work is to regulate the normative basis for the modern police organisation, its management and direction, and the clear delimitation of powers between the ministry and the police, to regulate specific labour relations in the police, the status and protection of police officers, training, education and research activities, and to ensure the police's closer involvement in the local community and closer cooperation of police with other actors, thereby improving the organisation and effectiveness of police operations. The main solutions to the bill are as follows. For the first time, a precise, clear definition of the relationship between the Ministry and the police and the definition of the tasks performed by the Ministry for the police. Secondly, a more detailed definition of the direction and supervision of the Ministry of Police, the powers of the directors of the Directorate for Police and other security tasks of the Ministry and the restrictions on the exercise of control when the direction is taken over by the Prosecutor of State. Thirdly, strengthening decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations. Compared to the current regulation, the draft law places particular emphasis on greater autonomy in the functioning of police administrations, thereby decentralising the police with clear strategic orientations and the starting points of the General Police Administration. The definition of the competences of individual organisational units shall take into account the principle of subsidiarity, which allows the right work to be carried out in the right place. In particular, this means that the General Police Administration carries out strategic tasks, with the exception of operational units such as the Special Unit, the Aviation Police Unit and certain other units; the Police Administration shall in particular carry out coordination tasks at regional and police stations directly with the tasks and powers of the police. Fourthly, a system of appointment of the Director-General of Police is being reintroduced, equivalent to the system of appointment of other Directors-Generals in the highest positions in public administration. Fifthly, public information on police work is also extended in the draft law to the directors of police administrations and commanders of district police stations, which inform the public about security events in their area. Six, police orientation towards the users of its services and effective cooperation with other bodies and institutions and entities. Here I must stress in particular that it is a matter of strengthening cooperation with the local community, establishing reporting obligations at the request of the municipal council and aligning the annual work plan of the district police station with the priorities of the local community. Thus, the so-called priority of modern police organisations, such as the Slovenian police, is directed towards police work in the community. The police organisation is intended for the users of services, i.e. the self-government local community. Week, enhanced partnership to ensure security by setting up councils, commissions' councils or other agreed forms of partnership. Eighthly, particular emphasis is placed on the specificity of the regulation of labour relations, which allows the smooth performance of operational tasks, the performance of tasks under special working conditions, overtime, temporary relocations and special emphasis and concern for employees, legal assistance and other forms. And the last. This is about upgrading the education system and gradually moving to a higher level of education to perform police duties for most of the police jobs. The bill on the organisation and work of the police forms a round whole with the proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police, which we have concluded in this regard. Both regulations will form the basis of police organisation and [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr László Göncz on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Good-bye to all of you again! The proposal for this law, as we have heard, lays down the organisation of the police and the specificities of the labour regulation. Its objective is the high level of legal and personal security of people, security of their property, strengthening of the rule of law, strengthening cooperation with the local community, decentralisation of the police, as well as the fulfilment of the obligations of international security undertaken by the Republic of Slovenia in the police field to simplify. We agree with the above statements and with the provisions, so I also announce our support for the bill in the first reading. Now the position from the point of view of national communities. The draft law and the sub-legislative acts annexed to the proposal do not provide for the visible public and official use of the language of indigenous national communities in the national mixed area and the use of the symbols of indigenous national communities in those areas, which means that all the provisions relating to this are in force in accordance with other laws or regulations. However, since there are some inconsistencies that we are pointing to in this regard, let us also make our point or comment in this debate in the context of the first reading of the law. It should be noted that there is a need to ensure consistent bilinguality on the boards marking police administration facilities and police stations based in the national mixed area. And in particular to elevate the flag of the national communities along with the flag of the Republic of Slovenia and other prescribed symbols at police and police stations based in the national mixed area. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. Let me just illustrate that in the case of the national mixed area in Prekmur, the use of the symbols of the Hungarian national community is quite consistent, but negative cases despite our warnings, we are looking right at the police and judicial facilities, which is, to say the least, rather strange and also incomprehensible in view of the high standard of legal protection of the indigenous national community. In support of this, I would like to stress that the public and official use of the language of indigenous national communities in national mixed areas is one of the fundamental special rights of national communities which enables the existence and development of these communities. The special rights of the national communities include the use of the symbols of the national communities, which are used in those areas together with the symbols of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. This is defined, as we all know, in Article 11 and Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and also in the provisions of the sub-legislative acts governing both areas. So, once again, we will uphold the law, but I hope that these warnings will be heeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u136	Dear Members and Members, Honourable Vice-President, Secretary of State and other Members! Unfortunately, the bill on organisation and work of the police contains more concerns of Positive Slovenia than the law, whose first examination we have just completed. The disputed starting points, which included the first proposal of law, organisation and police work, have been corrected three times in interdepartmental coordination, which we are pleased to note in Positive Slovenia, as we have warned ourselves about these controversial solutions. With each correction, the Ministry has softened the disputed articles, and some unacceptable solutions remain in the bill. Thus, in Positive Slovenia, we cannot support the law because of the following provisions: the first time, the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police and the Director of the National Investigation Office, which, according to the draft law, are carried out under the Law on Public Servants, is Articles 48 and 5 of the bill. For we are advocates of an autonomous professional commission, which is a kind of protection against political recruitment and has been introduced into the process of election of the Director-General of Police by a novel of the Police Act. In our view, the advantage of this Commission is that the Minister's candidate can be refused, which means that the Minister cannot propose to the government and must find an alternative. However, a change in the manner in which the Director-General of Police is appointed, as proposed by law, represents a major step backwards in ensuring the independence of the operational functioning of the police. This allows the Minister of the Interior to be completely free of time with regard to the appointment of the Director-General of the Police. Even worse, the Director-General of Police no longer has any protection against the Minister's will, even when it comes to his dismissal. Secondly, the degradation of the National Investigation Office into the ordinary criminal police sector. As a starting point, the draft law takes into account the fact that the National Investigation Office of the Interior is an organisational unit of the Directorate of the Criminal Police of the General Police, specialised in the handling of individual crimes and in the organisational sense part of the Directorate of Criminal Police. Thus, the National Investigation Office becomes only one of the internal organisational units of the police administration, although the analyses have undeniably shown that the existing organisation of detection and prosecution bodies, as well as their competence, working methodology, strategies and priorities, are not systematically appropriate to respond to new complex forms of crime. That the National Investigation Office is losing its operational autonomy through a new arrangement, it is also shown through a provision on the manner in which the Director-General of the Police will appoint and dispose of it under the Public Servants Act. Following the current legislation, the appointment of the NPU Director shall also be subject to the same provisions as the appointment of the Director-General of Police and through the determination of who determines which investigations of suspected crimes will be carried out by the National Investigation Office – no longer the Director of the National Investigation Office but the Director-General of Police with an internal act on a proposal from the Director! From now on, the National Investigation Office will be subordinated to the politically appointed Director General of Police and consequently to the Minister. Our concerns about the abolition of the Autonomous Professional Commission have also been raised yesterday in the appointment and resolution of the Director of the National Investigation Office and have also been presented in practice and shown to be fully justified and absolutely nothing exaggerated. Thirdly, the laxity of the provision for the recruitment of the so-called auxiliary police, Article 103 of the bill. The current Police Act provides, inter alia, for the recruitment of auxiliary police to replace the involvement of a large number of active police officers in carrying out large security risk tasks. However, Article 103 of the Police Organization and Work Act provides for the recruitment of auxiliary police officers solely for the purpose of replacing the absence of a larger number of police officers. Such a diction thus enables the recruitment of auxiliary police officers, for example, in the case of a police strike, which is very controversial in our view. Even if we remember the spring statement by the police and the minister of the threat that there are a lot of people at the employment offices who would work for 600 euros. Such a loose conduct allows for the replacement of police officers who carry out legally defined forms of union struggle. Among other things, auxiliary police officers are generally not trained to carry out police tasks on their own, but they do so with active police officers and are more helpful to them and act on the orders of an active police officer, and thus, by carrying out police tasks on our own by auxiliary police officers, we cause a greater possibility of injury at work and a greater likelihood of overstepping police powers. There is also a question of whether the Minister of the Interior is plotting a kind of parallel police force. These are the main concerns of Positive Slovenia, which we hope will be eliminated during the legislative process, or that the provisions will be written down more clearly, so that we will conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, support for the law as a whole, and make it conditional, in particular, on the requirement for an autonomous professional commission to appoint and resolve the Director-General of the Commission and the Director of the National Investigation Office. For the end of the day, just one more thought. The Republic of Slovenia is one of the rare countries which does not have a service to protect against foreign intelligence activities. Owl is exclusively an intelligence service. At present, it is, of course, more about protecting business or economic interests than typically national interests, but it is also not negligible, even more so. Some of the countries through which we like to imitate ourselves, such as in Germany, are part of the Ministry of Home Affairs’ counter-intelligence service. Given that we are talking not only about the organisation of the police today, but also about the Ministry of the Interior, as the proposal for a law at the Ministry of the Interior introduces a new internal organisational unit responsible for the direction and supervision, we are interested in whether you have considered any additional services in the Ministry of the Interior responsible for the anti-intelligence activity within the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State and distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on police organisation and work is also a twin law replacing the 1998 Police Act. In the SDS Group, we are aware that the proposal for a law on police organisation and work is one of the most important laws in the field of internal affairs. The law updates and regulates the functioning of the police. Given that police activity is primarily the activity of protecting people's lives and property and ensuring order, the tasks of the police are one of the vital parts of caring for people and ensuring national security, as we know that the police control national borders, which is the external border of the European Union today. The law responds to modern efforts to adapt the police to changing social conditions. The police must always be brought closer to the needs of the people and their safety, so they are more and more from a strictly hierarchical and centrally managed body in modern times [[Incomprehensible]] Which is also the intention of this marriage. The objectives of the bill are also based on these principles, which enable modern police organisation, governance and guidance by means of regulatory arrangements. For democratic political systems, it is particularly important to have a clear delimitation of powers between the Ministry and the police, as well as a very clear and limited direction and supervision of the Ministry of Police. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that the Constitutional Court also intervened in this matter in 2003, and therefore we believe that the proposal for a law brings clear solutions, which have already been constitutionally and judicially verified. Of course, the restrictions applicable to the Ministry in the direction and management of police control are also important when the prosecutor takes over the direction of the police. The Minister already has certain powers under the Law on State Administration towards the body in the composition, the proposal for a law specifies the type of guidance that is considered to be guidance and how it is implemented. The powers necessary to carry out their tasks effectively are also laid down by the officers who supervise the work of the police. Articles 12 and 13 also set out the manner and extent of the notification of the Minister and the reporting of the police. The public has the highest interest in the recruitment of key police personnel. In the previous mandate, under the Ministry of Minister Kresalova, a rather unique system of appointing the Director-General of the Police has been introduced in relation to practice in public administration. The new law abolishes this specificity and the appointment of the Director-General of Police is equivalent to the appointment of other Directors-General. At the time of the establishment of the National Investigation Office, an unconventional mode of appointment and responsibilities of the Head of the National Investigation Office was also introduced, since the NPU Chairman was not hierarchically placed in the office and powers of the Director General of Police and the Director of the Criminal Police. The draft law also normalises and Europeanises the position of the National Investigation Office. In the parliamentary group, we are of course convinced that increasing the decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations is the right direction and that the principle of subsidiarity allows rational division of tasks, if of course the strategic starting points of the General Police Administration are taken into account. We are aware that the number of uniformed police officers has decreased in recent years, and new solutions need to be sought to allow for a more rational use of human and material resources. The solution, which also allows for the relocation of other police and police personnel, including technical and professional public officials, to provide police support for the smooth performance of police tasks, is one of the steps in this direction and we support such guidance in the parliamentary group. As the discussion in the previous twin law has shown, it is clear that the Government has prepared this law with great care to give careful consideration to the positive solutions and importance of this matter for the situation in society and the country. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess that the solutions in this proposal are positive and we will support the bill on organisation and work in the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, let me begin by saying that in the introductory part of the law on the work and organisation of the police, under the heading of the summary of the report on public participation in the drafting of the bill, "The proposal for the law under consideration differs only from the draft law on the organisation and work of the police, which, after extensive public debate in the first reading, was discussed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 31st session of 22. 9. In 2011, a special presentation of the new proposal was therefore not carried out. The bill was published on the website of the Ministry of the Interior on 23 March 2012. Since the Group of Social Democrats has tabled a proposal for a general discussion of the law, let me say that this is very well heard, that everything has already been done and that is why there is no need for a specific public debate, but the difference between the 304 articles covering the original proposal and the 119 articles covering the current proposals of the law is still a somewhat negative traveller, which is called a police union warning, that the proposal is inconsistent with the social partners, and this is also related to those commitments made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs when we were to deal with the strike and misunderstandings. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. Previously, the Secretary of State mentioned that we should look at the magnetogram that Member Gorenak objected to. Well, it's because we've been looking in the parliamentary group, which he's opposed to, that we're wondering how we can change our position so much right now. For I will spare you by reading to you the 6 pages of a magnetogram from the previous term and any comments on the individual articles. But what is interesting is that we have worked hard and also looked at how those comments are now taken into account in the present law; and how interesting! What bothered Member Gorenak is that, in many cases, Minister Gorenak is no longer disturbed, but the fact that the Group of Social Democrats is disturbed by some of the new solutions in this law, which is why I now predict that we will not support the proposed decision on the appropriateness of the law for further consideration. It should be said that the reduction in the scope of the law is linked to the deletion of those articles relating to the appointment of the Director-General of Police, the terms and procedure and the early discharge, the special commission in the appointment process, the appointment of the Acting Director-General of Police, the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office, the appointment of the commanders of the Regional Police Stations and so on. I reiterate that the Slovenian Police Union is in breach of the strike agreement. They believe that the government intends to move forward with the agreed obligations of the collective agreement, and the trade unions have demanded that the bill with the government return to the coordination phase. An interesting response from Minister Gorenak is that "if we waited for the unions, we would probably never get back together." This would suggest something else. We have repeatedly referred to the current government as swearing on such postulates as transparency, professionalism, but when it comes to the internal ministry, it is a key word of trust. The new director-general of the police enjoys confidence, and he who calls him must re-emerge his trust and thus this chain of trust has been concluded again with Minister Gorenak. We wonder if we will not get a Gorenakov Investigation Office within the interior ministry instead of or around the national one. The principles of the law are read very well. That this law does not derogate from the principles already taken into account in the drafting of the Police Act, but in particular the following principles are expressed: operational autonomy and the professional independence of the functioning of the authorities, the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the functioning of the Authority, and the balance between the costs and revenues of the State budget. There are some very clear questions. How, given the powers, the powers, the tasks and everything that is regulated, will proper reward the work of police officers, taking into account the collective agreement? If you're looking at the financial consequences that are foreseen in the law, these are negligible to say so. It is true that, under one previous law, we set the criteria for what EUR 10 or 11 000 means, but look, the bill foresees an increase in the financial expenditure of the state budget in 2013 by EUR 50 000 538. In 2014, for an additional 30 000 and then for the transfer of some items, 80 000 538, it is true that the cost of 4 million and 200 000 euros is moving towards a time when we will probably be overcoming the crisis. However, it is not known how it will be at the expense of moving, and it is still unclear when we are talking about the financial consequences, but it is the fact that, when defining the relationship between the ministry and the police more precisely, the powers exercised by officials in the supervision of police work and the direction of the police and in informing the minister, it says here that the relationship between the ministry and the body in the composition remains clear, but there are a number of issues that can be illustrated also by the practice so far and also by the practices that have nothing to do with certain principles. In October, two senior officials were appointed to the post, both of them already meeting the conditions for retirement under the rules. The unanimity of the criteria is a very noticeable feature. And now I would just like to draw attention to something else that is as beautiful as these principles are read all of what is stated in the introduction, what is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia in ensuring a high level of security and thus quality of life for all inhabitants. However, the prerequisite for this is consistent respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and the systematic prevention of unlawful interference with human privacy and rights. How, then, can we understand the views of representatives of political parties who say that they could easily sacrifice some part of human rights at the expense of security?Oh, my God! You see, these are a number of open questions and Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the Social Democrats will wait until the final image of this law because practice has taught us that many of the things that are originally enshrined in the law can be substantially changed to the final version of the law. How much of what is a positive contribution to changing the legislation on police work and organisation will really be carried out, I say again, we will look at it. I only mention it as a picnic; the introduction of this law commends the reorganisation of police administrations. Recently, we heard quite different views in some reports. So there is a significant difference between the word spoken and the word written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President. Slovenian police are the organ of sui generis, the organ of a special type and is the largest authority of the state administration in the Republic of Slovenia. Its specific organisational and functional status is also a situation requiring the search for optimal forms of internal organisation and regulation of labour relations. The draft law on the organisation and work of the police replaces and builds on the existing Police Act in that part relating to the normative basis for the modern police organisation, its management and direction and the clear delimitation of powers between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the police, the regulation of specific labour relations in the police, the status and protection of the police officer, training and education. In particular, it is essential that the proposal of the law restores the greater role of the local community in setting priorities, pre-drafting the annual police station work plan and reporting the police station's command on security relations in the local community. This will certainly contribute to greater police cooperation with the local community, thereby improving public security and reducing fear of crime and consequently improving the effectiveness of police work. In a specific case, this means that the law restores certain relations that have already been in law in the area of the Police Act, but that law has not been regulated in recent times. It is also important that the law makes it possible to differentiate the different jobs of police work. In this way, within five years of the entry into force of the law, the Ministry will systemize those particularly demanding positions of operative police officers requiring the rank of higher professional education. This will provide the basis for the most exposed, key and capable operatives to be better ranked and better paid. There is no change in the appointment and discharge of police station commanders and police chiefs, and the appropriate candidates for the director of the police are checked, as in all cases of public administration recruitment, by the official council. The National Investigation Office shall maintain the position and specific status within the police by making the circle clearer or more specific; the appointment of the Director of the NPU shall be comparable to the appointment of the Director of Police. The draft law is mainly inter-resortaryly coordinated, and especially for two years, it has also been coordinated with the interested public, the internal and the external, since the material was first published on 13 December 2010. The Parliamentary Group considers that the proposal for a law on police organisation and work is appropriate for further consideration in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Jasmina Opec on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. The bill on police organisation and work is complemented by the so-called police reform, which, in addition to the proposal under consideration, is also a proposal for a law on police tasks and powers that we have considered in the previous paragraph. Certainly one of the most important objectives of the proposed law is to create the conditions for creating a modern police organisation, improving its governance and guidance. This will certainly help to clarify the delimitation of powers between the competent ministry and the police, the regulation of police labour relations and the status and protection of the police officer and his education. A positive change is also the closer cooperation of the police with other actors and its better involvement in the functioning of the local community. The bill therefore brings more professional, efficient and rational action and the systematic development of the police. This will be achieved by adopting a strategic document of the resolution on the long-term development programme of the police of the Republic of Slovenia. This will make it easier to plan and allocate financial liabilities in the budget, as well as to make a commitment to the police not to change their priorities every year. Research, education and training within the police are also strengthened, as this is crucial for its further development and quality cooperation with other educational and research institutions. The aim of the amendment is also to strengthen the decentralisation and independence of police administrations, in particular in the direction of security problems specific to the area of each police administration, which must be in line with the strategic points of the General Police Administration. The focus on greater decentralisation is the provisions of the law on greater connectivity with local communities, as direct and partnership between the police and citizens is the best guarantee for greater confidence in the work of the police and for improving its reputation. With regard to the merger of police administrations, we had some concerns, but we were assured that it was primarily about rationalising administrative and administrative functions and that no worker had been cut down due to the reorganization and that the total cost of operating would still be reduced. In the field of labour relations, the proposed law departs from certain provisions of the Public Servants Act, which we find acceptable because of the specificity of the police profession and the comparability with regulation in certain other sectoral laws such as the Defence Act or the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Most of the controversy about the bill appeared to the public about the manner in which the Director of Police and the tasks or status of the National Investigation Office were appointed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we see the role of the NPU in strengthening the NPU and establishing a clear line of responsibility within the police system. Therefore, the National Investigation Office must act as a kind of criminal police summit, which works effectively with other investigative bodies in order to quickly detect and prosecute and prevent the worst crimes. If this office had acted in the past as it should and was expected to, it would certainly have reached a range of so-called tycoon rights and the detection of economic crime would have been successful and timely. However, with regard to the concerns expressed by some about the manner in which the Director of Police is appointed, it should be pointed out that the procedure is going back to the time when the Minister adjusted the procedure in the previous mandate to her own measure. The Minister must be able to propose to the candidate and the Commission the possibility of making the candidate safe if he considers that it is not appropriate, which is comparable to European rules. A worse solution is certainly the current regime, when the director of police is virtually irreplaceable. This does not mean that the police should be subordinated or dependent on the government or the minister, but certainly the competent minister, who is objectively responsible for the work of the police, must have the opportunity to appoint a director of a person who is judged to be the professional and responsible leader of the police's work for the benefit and security of everyone in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed changes represent a more optimal organisation of the police, which will be able to perform its function more effectively and more responsible for the greater benefit and security of citizens and citizens. We therefore assess that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u146	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the draft law on police organisation and work. The proposal for a new law on police organisation and work is the second of both laws under the current Police Act. Thus, according to the current Police Law, the Minister of the Interior may seek a candidate for the Director-General of the Police through a public or internal call or call, and before submitting a proposal to the Government, the Minister is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Special Autonomous Professional Commission on the suitability of the candidate. However, the draft law on police organisation and work provides that the Director-General of Police shall appoint and dismiss the Government on a proposal from the Minister. The provisions of the law governing the system of public servants shall apply to the procedure. Under this law, the public tender shall be conducted by a special competitive commission appointed by the official council. The proposal reintroduces the system that was in force until 2009 and is already applicable to the appointment of other Directors-General. At this point and at the point of redefinition of the National Investigation Office, Members of the DeSUS Group expect the most public debate on this bill. The Special Autonomous Expert Commission will also no longer be required to appoint a Director of the National Investigation Office. The Director of the National Investigation Office will appoint and resolve the Director-General of Police. The current law provides for the National Investigation Office to operate outside the criminal police, and this bill puts it within the criminal police framework, to which it belongs. The task of the National Investigation Office will no longer be determined by itself as it has been before, but will be determined by the Director-General of Police. Otherwise, the basic objective of the bill is the high level of legal and personal security of people, the security of their property, the strengthening of the rule of law, the strengthening of cooperation with the local community and the decentralisation of the police. In doing so, the text of the law follows the objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty. One of the novelties of the law is also the provision of greater autonomy and autonomy for police administrations. To this end, the power to decide on the right to legal aid paid is transferred to the directors of police administrations. The proposal also further limits powers between the ministry and the police, and the Minister will not be able to direct the work of the police when the prosecution takes over. The innovation leading to a more rational functioning of the body is a long-term development programme for the smooth functioning of the police, which will enable its sustainable development. This is a strategic document that contains different areas, such as personnel, equipment, education and the like. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that this document will enable strategic planning of resources and labour capacities that will enable police to work smoothly and qualitatively, with equipment that will not be sustained and lacking, thereby also increasing the level of satisfaction with the work among the police themselves. At the same time, we expect this document to contribute to the development of new methods, tactics and police work techniques. The police will submit each year a report on their work to the Minister, who will be forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for information. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will provide it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We also expect the DeSUS Group to contribute to strengthening the decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations. We also hope that the bill will actually increase the police's orientation towards the users of its services and enable effective cooperation with other bodies and institutions and entities. In doing so, we focus on strengthening cooperation with the local community, which is expected to be achieved by aligning the annual work plan of the district police station with the priorities of the local community and by strengthening partnership in providing security through the establishment of councils, councils, commissions or other agreed forms of partnership. The DeSUS Group estimates that the proposal for a law brings good solutions that will help the more effective work of the Slovenian police, so we will support the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed law for three reasons. Firstly, because it clearly defines the relationship between the Ministry of Interior and the police; secondly because it makes it possible to develop the police more and thirdly because it allows the police to decentralise. As regards the relationship between the Ministry and the police, the law defines in more detail the direction and supervision of the Ministry of Police. Let me be very clear, this is not a matter of directing and controlling specific criminal procedures, to which, in recent times, in many cases, particularly by the opposition, the hints, and most likely these will be determined because these things are clearer and more comprehensively defined, especially those who have had a lot of say in the past days and months at the expense of Minister Gorenak. This law also allows for better police development and will focus more on research activities, education and training of police officers. The law will also regulate the status of the forensic laboratory and upgrade it to a national forensic laboratory that will carry out these work for the police, the state prosecutor's office and the court. As far as decentralisation is concerned, let me put it this way: this law allows for greater autonomy and autonomy of police administrations. And the last thing that makes us happy in Novi Slovenija is that this law also makes it possible for the police to be more connected with Slovenian municipalities. The possibility offered by law is also that municipal councils require local police stations to report on the situation in a particular municipality. These are all the reasons why we will support this law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor to prepare Dr. Gregor Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague! We will also support further consideration of this law in Positive Slovenia, even though we are not satisfied with all the solutions enshrined in the law. I will limit myself to a few thoughts that are entirely my point of view, namely, the National Investigation Office. The whole party has concerns here, but I think in particular in some international context. The National Investigation Office, as I know, was set up just to get out of direct connection with other police units or the Criminal Police Administration and specialize in the most demanding forms of crime, economic crime, financial crime. That is why the previous police and ministry management also hired experts there who are not typical criminals, economists, lawyers, in short, people who can actually find out more effectively whether an individual case is a crime or not. Now this national office is moving again under the auspices of the Criminal Police Authority and becomes just one organisational unit. I'm afraid she'll lose her grip. You know that when he was created in the media and in public, he recognized himself as the Slovenian FBI, which is not, in fact, because then the FBI should be under the prosecution, in short, this NPU. I think it would not be bad at all to combine the investigation in this area with the prosecution and to give more independence in this direction. The other thing I'm personally interested in is police control. I welcome what was already started about ten years ago to continue efforts to control the police at the Ministry. Now a special organisational unit has been set up to do this, but I would expect that in Slovenia we will finally start to think a little bit more broadly so that police control will become much more independent. In Slovenia, the police and the Ministry of the Interior are still well understood as something common, something united. The personnel are also being transferred from the Ministry to the police and vice versa. I don't think it would hurt to follow some old democracy, such as Britain, which has an inspectorate of Her Majesty as a police officer. This is a complete independent organisation that oversees police work with inspections and these inspections in the Ministry itself in this sense certainly cannot be afforded; there is no human resources base for this, I think by number and education, but not by independence. If any such body were put in place, I am giving this more thought to the following arrangements and upgrades that can be traced even under this law. This English organization is also his ministry and the police. I recall that at the time I was employed there, that is to say, about ten years ago, the Minister of the Interior at that time formed a special advisory body for these matters, composed of eminent legal experts in the field of criminality and in particular this area of police. We could name something like this not only in the Ministry, but as a guardian in this sense in Slovenia. These are my humble thoughts, and thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor to prepare Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. First of all, let me make it very clear that I am in favour of this law and that our Group of Members also supports it. However, in our parliamentary group we always have ceterum censeo, which our leader also stresses – namely, that one is law and the other is implementation – and that the actual good work of the police depends mainly on good governance, on directors, on the leaders of individual organisational units and on police and criminals who carry out concrete work. I think that this law on police organisation is a nice opportunity for a little wider discussion of what we expect from Slovenian police, in fact, what we want from it, and I think that the opinion of our people, citizens and citizens is united here. On the one hand, we expect the police to scrupulously investigate and suppress crime, especially the part of crime that is most consumed, which devours Slovenian society in a moral sense, in a valuable sense, and creates some impression of injustice in society. We continue to hear that it is unacceptable, and people are right that it is unacceptable, on the one hand, to lower rights in different areas, because we need to reduce public spending and on the other hand, some eccentric crime cases remain uncleaned, do not get epilogues in court. So, the prosecution of crime is extremely important, and I would think that way about the NPU here. On the one hand, the NPU would give recognition and praise for what was done because certain things were done. There was the first, although not yet a legal, judicial judgment in the Merkur case, which could be some trait that had not yet brought the ointment, or a ray of hope, at the end of the tunnel. Here the NPU has to admit that this difficult case has apparently been very well investigated, prepared good evidence, worked well with the prosecution, and the case has also ended well in court. There have also been other cases that the NPU has investigated and are still pending before the courts or the prosecution: the NKBM case, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant Fund, the Hippo case, the Thaler case, the TŠ 6, the Koper Municipality, etc. So a lot of work has been done, and that's why the NPU is doing the best it can. Of course, work needs to be improved. Economic crime and corruption need to be pursued even more decisively. It is necessary to work even more professionally and cooperation between the prosecution and the police, the NPU and other segments of the criminal police should be even better. In doing so, I would stress that this work of investigating crimes is a very difficult, professional work, it is not something simple, it is a work that – especially when cases are difficult – takes quite a while. What we need in this society is not a media spectacle, of which we will have nothing, from media-covered arrests we have nothing. We need the well-done work of the NPU and the criminal police at all, we need strong evidence to equip the prosecutions for being able to defend the case well, to require punishment, to require sanctions and then to bring matters to a high-quality conclusion, with quality judgements in court. It is not necessarily a measure of the success of the criminal police, how many convictions come from the indictments, because the level of level at which an act must be proved is different for the initiation of an investigation, for the prosecution and for the final conviction. Thus, we must not always say that the police have done a bad job if in all cases it does not end with a conviction; however, the crime in this case has not been proven. And what is a criminal offence can ultimately be decided only by the court; not by politicians, not by Members, not by the media, and none but by the courts. The second thing we expect from the police is public order and security. Here I would particularly warn and say that the police will be successful if people in this country feel safe. In doing so, I would like to point out that sometimes, unfortunately, some police leaders have a bureaucratic attitude towards public order and security and that they do not understand the mission of the police, because the mission of the police is that we are safe. It is not the mission of the police to punish as many offences as possible, to write as many fines as possible, to punish as many times as possible, to warn, etc. The police will be successful if we are safe if there are few traffic accidents, if there is a little violation of public order and peace. What do I mean by that? If this is clear, if this mission is understood by the chiefs, if understood by the Director-General of the Police, if understood by the Chief of Police, then all police officers will be directed to this and will not put themselves at those points where people are most likely to commit formal offences, because they drive 5 kilometres beyond the limit, but accidents in that area are not, there are no negative phenomena, but there will be very many penalties – in short, if they work on the standard, so much and so many penalties each month, and you will get a positive assessment of the performance of work – but the police will be successful if they are on the ground where the neurological points are, where accidents occur; where the victims are, where there is material damage; where there are violations of public order and peace. The police must be there, even though they punish less and bring less fines into the state budget. So, the bureaucratic approach goes away and I would say "fisco-ocratic" is that the successful police are the one that brings as much money into the budget as possible. This is a bureaucratic way of thinking, even some mayors sometimes think this way and it's wrong, it's not the sense of the authorities that care about public order and security. Years ago, as a minister, I participated in a conference on quality in the public sector and there the Swedish police presented their example of developing a quality model. So the quality models that are at home in the economy, in companies, in the private sector, are also applied in some countries in the police. Sounds amazing, but that's right. The Slovenian police also have some attempts this way. There the measure of success was developed quite differently than I think it is happening to us. Whether one police station director, one police station commander is successful or not, in Sweden depends on how people feel safe in the local environment, whether people feel safe or not. If they feel safe, then the police are successful and the director of the police department or the commander of the police station is highly valued and is also well-known for his salary. With regard to the law, I must say that the Civil Code has been very strongly and intensively involved in the coordination and preparation of this law, or I will not say exactly when it is being prepared, but in the coalition coordination phase, we have made quite a few comments and I must say very frankly that these comments have been taken into account. So, all praise from our ministry, Minister Gorenak, Secretary of State, Secretary of State on the team. In short, we are satisfied, some things with which we were not satisfied in the first draft of the law were amended, supplemented and now the law is fine in our opinion. The appointment of the Director-General shall be arranged as is the case with the other Heads of State Administration, i.e. top management in the State Administration, in accordance with the Public Servants Act. And that's right! It is a two-phase procedure, in the first phase the filter is professional, so through this filter only top competent candidates can come, even the conditions in the law are very sharp, and in the second phase the minister can choose the capable and professional and competent candidate with whom he can cooperate and who will trust him. I have known the new Director-General of the Police since I myself, as my colleague Janja Klasinc, worked for the Minister of the Interior, and I must congratulate Minister Gorenak on his election as Police Director-General. The new Police Director-General is a professional and police officer from head to toe; therefore, I have no fear that this man would dare to influence himself from politics in order to hope to give himself commands, instructions on what to investigate and what not. So I have great confidence, because the functioning of systems depends most on people, more than on marriage. It is more important to me than what this law on police will be, that Stanislav Veneiger becomes the general director of the police. The NPU retains certain autonomy, which is excellent, well, I strongly support and say in this work that they have done so far, they must now upgrade and be that pillar and that point and that institution in which people will have confidence that they are really working to prosecute economic crime and corruption. Of course, we have also taken a good look at wage matters, and we like the fact that the law is keeping, so that it does not interfere with the single public sector wage system. Every time legislation changes, either police or military, or tax or any other, attempts are made to dissipate a single public sector payroll system. I know because for years I've been working on how hard it is to keep such a system together and how dangerous it is for you to get one piece out of this system. Then he starts tearing himself up like a domino, and it's not possible to stop. Despite the fact that this payroll system – so-called Virantov – is in fact Drnovškov-Ropov-Bohinčev-Janšev-Virantov – is said to be a project of several successive governments – although it is quite a convenient excuse for many things, this payroll system is the one that allowed us to enter the crisis with a significantly lower mass for wages than otherwise. In order to clarify this, it should always take ten, fifteen minutes, but it is clear to me and my acquaintances: if after 2002, the wage stampede we had from 1994 to 2002 would have been about 15% higher at the beginning of the public sector wage crisis. I can prove that to anyone at any time. That's why I'm defending this single salary system because it's a good tool and it's a guarantee that wages don't go up uncontrolled, and it's good that the Police Act doesn't crash it. One little thing I'd like to point out, maybe one more thought before the second reading, there's another possibility, an opportunity for some kind of amendment. At one point, I think things could be improved. It was years ago that logistics services, human resources, finance, accounting and so on were moved from the police to the Ministry of the Interior. In my opinion, this move was poor, the police is a large system, it has its own management autonomy, it has its own director-general, it is independent and logical that this Director-General also supports professional services in the field of personnel, finance, accounting and so on, which are in his hands, which can order things from them and which he professionally supports. It is illogical that the chairman of one such strong and independent body must turn to the Ministry for professional support for his managerial decisions. And imagine, the same staff service for the Ministry, which is significantly smaller by number of employees, and for even the police, which is significantly larger by number of employees. And that's the problem. Since then, ministers have had a completely incomprehensible ambition for me to bring these services to the Ministry, I don't know why, I don't know, to reduce autonomy in this way, to have things more under control, I don't know; but it's not practical, it's not smart, it's not rational, and it certainly makes it harder for the police to function. So think about another treatment here, if it is possible to fix it. I'm concluding. The Civil Code supports the law. It expects further improvements to the second reading and stresses that it is mainly far more dependent on leaders, criminals and police officers. Much more than the law depends on Stanislav Veniger and his team on the police. I firmly believe that Slovenian police can be trusted that this is a quality, trustworthy institution, but as in other public sector institutions, there is always room for improvement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor, and Mrs Eva Irgle is preparing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President. In the beginning, I would have touched the National Investigation Office. The good thing that we have this office would not agree that it has a special status because it is more independent, but I think it has a special status because it is more specialized and combines somehow all knowledge from finance and the prosecution of organised crime and economic crime. Otherwise, it could also mean that the rest of the police are not independent, not autonomous, and so on. To a certain extent, I analysed the results of the report on the functioning of the National Investigation Office in 2011, and I must say so. Some data show that the prosecution received 94 thousand 525 criminal charges in 2011. We assume 95% or more came from the police. Of this, there were 36 thousand 203 known perpetrators of crimes. If I look at the National Investigation Office, in 2011, the State Prosecutor's Office sent 47 criminal charges against employment – this is said to 58 employees. Well, let's just say it must be 55 operatives. What does that mean? This means that every employee in the National Investigation Office has written a single criminal complaint throughout the year. True, you can say that these were difficult cases, it took a long time to work on these matters and so on, but the report does not give such a basis either. They state in the report that they have problems that they have failed to propose an unlawful asset benefit, and the court has not followed them. In no case did they succeed in determining the detention. This indicates that it was not a particularly difficult matter, indicating that these cases might have been delayed, that they were things that should have been reacted long ago. I assume that there was also no use of specific operating methods and means that require specific types of effort and also specific types of engagement. This was the case of Mercury, which we can say: it is good that it happened, that there was a first-degree judgment. However, as far as we know from the media this matter, we know that this has been practically reduced to a review of the three economic laws that say everything about it. We can only hope that this judgment will also endure the test in the Supreme Court and that this is in fact an indicator of a trend that will consistently prosecute and process such crime. In short, I do not wish to criticize, I would like to point out that the National Investigation Office is actually a large debtor of this country and we expect significantly better results from the National Investigation Office. The next point, which shows that the law we are considering is an important step forward, brings certain refreshments, novelties. and at this point introduces a greater link between the police and the local environment. The police used to have this connection, it was later eliminated, and it proved to be a major weakness in police work. Police with this law enter the local environment as a partner of the local environment, where they jointly set priorities and also report. Municipal councillors will be able to familiarise themselves with the commander, be able to familiarize themselves with the work of the police administration, and all of this will mean a greater sense of security, a greater exchange of information between the local environment and the police, and people will be able to re-emphasize as their local police officers and will also be able to influence this sense of security. The next good thing that the law brings and for which we have probably needed for too long is the introduction or setting up of conditions for new systemization, which means differentiation of jobs, differentiation of the profession of police. At this moment we know that we have different types of police officers, but there are no major differences between them: we have a police officer at the Schengen border, with everything going on, we have an on-call at the police stations and, of course, we also have a leader of the intervention group at the Ljubljana-center Police Station. Of course, it is not the same quality, it is not the same difficulty, it is not the same burden of work. The current law brings differentiation in this part so that the highest, most exposed operatives are recognised either after a certain internship, 20 years of age, 6th degree of education or systematisation at the 6th level, and the status and pay they pay, or these people are additionally qualified to formally achieve this education. This is great progress and I think it will also stimulate the police to do even better. Finally, I'd like to touch the Libra project. It is good that the police, as a system, are subject to changes, subject to adjustments, organisational problems, but this Libra project, which is now showing some results, also some shortcomings which are not to be repeated by further reorganisation. I am speaking for the Police Administration Postojna, where there has been a major flaw – the travel costs at the monthly level amount to €15 000 for arrival and departure from work in Koper or Ljubljana. Just that part. While none of the operatives are in the field anymore after the termination of the Postojna Police Administration. This is said, neither the Police Administration of Koper nor the Police Administration of Ljubljana from Postojna has received any more operatives. All of these are likely to have been employed in directing or have been retired, but they are retired on the basis of the ZUJF. Some inconsistencies, too. The Postojna Police Department forgot to cancel the lease on time and they were paying off, I think another six months' rent. If this project were run in a timely, coordinated manner, there would probably be no additional cost. I'm talking about the fact that this mistake should never happen again. Of course, the reorganisations must be and I hope they will be carried out, but to a slightly better level. As it is said, the law is suitable for further consideration if there is any better solution that will then emerge, we will also support it, so that we want and support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We therefore have before us a law on the organisation and work of the police, where, first of all, there is a desire to establish such a legal basis that can lead to a modernly regulated police organisation and through more efficient and good work also to a greater reputation, which has been discussed earlier and widely by colleague Misic. Well, unlike him, I think that the police in public have a good enough reputation and that even between citizens and citizens are the police who are well-written. However, they have a greater problem with some other institutions, and more because of the courts and the prosecutions, who do not play their role as effectively as they would expect. But I hope that this matter will move forward for the better. Finally, also the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic, when the police visited him at home when he was suspected of several crimes, from money laundering to tax evasion and so on, said himself that the police were doing well and correctly. So if we come from this, we can see that the police have a reputation. One of the meetings of the Internal Policy Committee was also attended by representatives from the types of experts in the police, in particular from the types of criminalists, who highlighted one very important issue, which is that they support the legislation currently under way. Everyone agreed that it should be rewinded and changed precisely in those parts where we expect the police to act more efficiently and more quickly. But there's something else I'd like to point out. Also on the Committee, Minister of the Interior Vinko Gorenak said that even in the legislation itself, he took into account the good proposals and solutions drawn up by the opposition. In short, he has shown good will here and, above all, that he wants to cooperate with the opposition on such important issues as today's law. The aim of the bill is, first of all, to clearly delineate the power between the Ministry and the police. This means that the law specifies exactly the tasks the Ministry carries out for the police. Specific police working relationships should be regulated, which means that this law regulates the status and protection of a police officer, including training, education and research activities, especially what appears to be very important and has already been pointed out by my colleague Braniselj. This law ensures a closer involvement of the police in the functioning of local communities and closer cooperation of the police with other entities, which, of course, represents an even better organisation and functioning of the police. Despite what I have now listed, what is said to be the key objectives of the proposed law or solution is that it is essential to ensure, through legislation in the first place, that the police act: for the first time, professionally, that the police act effectively and in particular quickly. Why am I saying this? In the previous term, we had experience with the interior minister, who has done many things, so she has also obtained two interpretations from our side, of course she has also resigned, because of the corruption in the matter of the National Investigation Office. In short, we had one problem at the time that things did not happen quickly; but not because the police would not want to work quickly or efficiently; not because the police would not want to do their job well; but because some procedures did not take place quickly because it was an extremely selective approach to dealing with individual applications. That was the problem, that was the problem! So today, as already the Director-General of Police, I have been tracking the media, saying that some things have been standing at the National Investigation Office for several years. Why? Why? So, it was purely political, exclusively political. Some things have been dealt with as a matter of priority, and some things have by no means been found to fit into an agenda and to be discussed or handled by the police. In general, given the great increase in corruption and customerism, which clearly, in the light of recent events, goes to the highest levels of policy when some people suspect everything from tax evasion to money laundering, to tax evasion, to the detriment of creditors, this country really needs – as I said before – the speed, efficiency and expertise of both the police and other entities involved in the persecution of economic crime. In the previous term, we have already adopted a very important law, a law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. For the last time, I asked the Secretary of State of the Committee on Internal Policy how many cases had been taken away so far. And, of course, the Secretary of State answered correctly, because there was no other way: only two cases. Just two cases! But what's interesting is that the situation, as they can monitor it, is fundamentally different and it doesn't reflect that number. I really want to know when people who have illegally come to this property who can't prove where they're from, when they're going to be punished for the first time, because after all we've all been harmed by this, we're talking a lot about robbery, and of course they're going to take that property away from them. Some are apparently still untouchable, even though some procedures are under way. To go back to that part of the law that talks about the appointment of a police director. We have witnessed a very interesting practice in the previous term, which followed through the entire mandate of the interior minister. But the former minister put the director of the police on a stand-alone basis, and only after she had appointed him solely of her own volition did she implement an appropriate legal basis. Then, on the Committee on Home Affairs, we listened over and over again to the members of Positive Slovenia in particular, how Minister Gorenak will appoint a new Police Director after Mr Goršek has offered to resign. I must say, Minister Gorenak acted by law. Minister Gorenak acted under that law, which was introduced by Interior Minister Katarina Kresal only later, which is also illegal. Today, this law provides that both the Director-General of the Police and the Director of the National Investigation Office may be appointed in accordance with the Public Servants Act. I don't see anything at all in here! This appointment of the Director of Police was previously contested. That was a bit of a dispute. In my opinion and also in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party at that time, it was undoubtedly an abuse of the police for private purposes. Then you know what else was going on. Some things have been pushed deep into the drawer, and this is the problem today that in the previous mandate, some things should not even be said, except that those who are responsible should react as they should. I hope that the law we have before us today, and given how I have information, you will vote in Positive Slovenia and also in the Social Democrats to support this law. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, Mrs. Potter, then obviously you won't vote, even though I think this is a good marriage. Why don't you vote, you'll probably explain yourself below. However, I believe that the law certainly provides a good basis for a modern police organisation, but above all it provides a basis for some things to finally be settled and put in place in this country. It is said that the police will act effectively, quickly and professionally. Above all, that we will finally do something about the prosecution of economic crime, no matter what political colours someone has committed the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Hršak. There are some cancellations below, so the next one should be prepared. Ivan Vogrin, who I don't see here. If he's not here, mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who isn't here either. Then it would be Mr Gaspar Gaspr Misic's turn. Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I myself would focus on the two provisions of the proposal for a new law on organisation and police work, which I think is extremely important, which the opposition somehow challenges. Under one, the National Investigation Office will be working in and out of the criminal police, as was the case in the current law, and I think it is the only thing that is right. Under two. According to the new National Investigation Office, he will no longer choose what he will do and what he will not do, but will be assigned by the Director General of Police. This seems to me as well as the Members of the DeSUS Group to be the only correct way for the National Investigation Office to operate. That is also how simple people in the field feel about me daily, and that is how they expect me to do so. While the opposition wishes to show that this new way will allow for influence on the National Investigation Office, what it will do and when it will do something, I am sure that this will now be the opposite. According to the law in force so far, a number of illegal people have been able to influence the leadership of the NPU, so that the most hot, irrigated illegal cases in the sky, especially economic crime, so-called tycoon irregularities, have not been dealt with, and have dealt with less important cases. The public, the simple people, as well as the DeSUS itself, are rightly expected, or in fact, to demand that both the National Investigation Office, the criminal police, the prosecution and the judiciary finally resolve all these most receptive irregularities in our country, that those responsible for irregularities are adequately accountable before the time of justice, and that they return to society all these illegally acquired funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Even though he's a magician. Barbara Žgajnar Tavš joined, gave up the debate and therefore I give the floor to Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u160	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! So, bearing in mind that the effectiveness, expertise and legality of police work are, inter alia, an adequate material and moral evaluation of police work, with the quality of equipment and work resources, with internal organisational culture and adequate leadership, with human relations and with the sense of belonging to an organisation that can protect police and police officers from threats and unfounded accusations, but at the same time requires consistent respect for the lawfulness and human rights, I would like to see the proposal for a law on the organisation and work of the police improve the conditions and make it possible for our police to be more effective, since the police activity represents an important foundation for all other institutions of the rule of law and freedom and the safety of all citizens and citizens. Effective prosecution of organised crime is crucial in ensuring not only security, but mainly in the proper development of the whole society and of course the economic stability of our society. I would like our police to be more successful in persecuting especially economic crime, which is spoken of so much in our country, but nothing happens or too little happens because some individuals who are supposed to commit so-called economic crime are supposed to be in a group that is untouchable. So in the country of Slovenia we have not only deleted and such and different, but I also have the untouchables, who have severely damaged state property, damaged all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is right that we also contribute to the more effective work of the police through this law. This is our purpose, and this is also our mission in the National Assembly, and I will personally support this law, and I expect those who have prepared this law to complete with those additions that are urgently needed, especially in proper staffing, especially in proper supervision, so that it will not have so much influence as has been said in the past that we will not be disappointed in the future because of various such and different political agendas. The police and we, Members and Members of Parliament, must protect ourselves from all the undesirable effects and effects that are being reported to us, that we do not know that we cannot or that we are all corrupt if you want; but we are not! We are here and now to contribute to better legislation. We in Parliament must adopt laws that will promote the proper functioning of the whole system and the proper development of the economy. It is crucial that we in this country eradicate this economic crime, which we have been really talking about for two decades, especially in the last period. We do not want this and our police and all those who are associated with it, including politicians in particular, to contribute and enable this to happen. In our country, everyone with fair intentions is welcome; and this must be the message we send as a signal across the border. Banditism and others who somehow managed to somehow dive into all the seasons of our system are not welcome in this country. When I say here to the police that it is very important that we also have adequate equipment, I would recommend that they include in their equipment also some powerful compressor of the lime system, which will blow over and drive away literally, cleanse all of these pores, in which they have literally infiltrated various non-controversies. We no longer want to be talked about in this country, as if we were a criminal state and so on. Let us be successful, let us show ourselves and the world that we can do this, and let us not interfere politically with the work of our police. Let them do their work professionally, as they learned from Tacna on. Police officers must not allow themselves to be subject to any influence of any kind of policy in any direction. from the left, right, bottom, upper, inner or outer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh is next, followed by Mrs Iva Dimic, then Mag. Borut Ambrožič, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, because all of these are missing and if they do not join us, the next Jerko Čehovin is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you may not like my debate, but I will answer a few questions, and I will also ask some questions. We need to adopt a law that will speed up and improve the efficiency and work of the police. Mrs Irgle, I listened very carefully, said that the police must be professional, efficient, successful, but did not say that they must be apolitical; and this worries me. It has to be apolitical, it can't be completely influenced and it can't be influenced. This talk of ours, when we point to the previous government, I did not understand whether we are now dealing with the former minister or today I am talking about a new law. We are talking today about a new law that needs to set a framework in which the police can be even more effective and I think it is. Of course, I do not agree that the pay system was good, as Mr Virant, a Member of Parliament, spoke about. The pay system has done a lot of bad, and the question is whether the police are effectively rewarded for their work because they wear the head for sale. This is an essential issue and this needs to be handled very well within the system. I think that Mr Veniger is a good chief of police and that someone else is also suitable for being a good choice because she has been chosen from among the police. But this is a matter of course for those who are supposed to regulate it, and it would not be right – and this is what we stressed in the adoption of this law – that politics has an impact in a sense that could bring about someone who is political. I'll tell you why I think so. The link between the police, ladies and gentlemen, has already been very good with the municipal councils today, and I can at least claim to be a congregation in which I have worked and work for many years today. We had a police station report on the municipal council at least once a year, then we regularly had the issue of a police station or police officers on the citizens' safety council, and I say that this work has gone well that it can run better. In fact, the main problem with field work is that we don't have enough cops on the ground to have more cops on the ground. The offer of the former mayor in Velenj to police officers was that the Municipality of Velenje should pay, say, three police officers who would be at the police station and work in the area of our municipality. We also had the approval of the municipal council, but that was not accepted. It is said that police officers must be on the ground and that citizens and citizens feel this need and that we are safe when a sense of security is good. In fact, the actual situation can be different and the sense of security is extremely important. If I understand the law correctly, then we will replace it as soon as we adopt this law, all the commanders in Slovenia, all the commanders of the police stations. If that's not true, please answer. My question is yes. The police union, so I got the notice, didn't even get the bill – the one in the procedure. The letter from the police union says that's true. So if it was not coordinated between the ministry and the police unions — the law — then this is gravely wrong. The offer I heard from Minister Gorenak to co-operate with the opposition is, however, a transfer, unless Mr Vinko Gorenak, as opposition Member of September 2011, aligned his position with police Minister Vinko Gorenak with the opposition and coalition differences he himself said in the National Assembly and read them. I can read them to you, too, because I have them here, and what Minister Gorenak said in marriage, even in those passages that are completely unchanged. At that time, he had the interpretations right on each article, and in every article he said what was wrong, today many of these articles are exactly the same. And there's something else I'd like to ask you. When we here, in the National Assembly, talk about corruption, but we don't say names, we put our own mistrust among the Slovenian people because they think, but they will already know. It's not right for us to act like this, ladies and gentlemen! But especially those who have in their own kind a man who does not respect the laws — you do not talk about the rule of law! You do not confuse others by not sticking to the law, not respecting them, not touching them. Ladies and gentlemen, until the police bring Janez Ivan Janša to justice, don't talk so long about us being a state of law and that we are fulfilling this and that we can do what we ask of someone else. The legal system, the police, the prosecution is a system that must work, but we, gentlemen and ladies, whom we say we are elected to be the highest representatives, must adhere to these systems. As long as there is not even an accused proposal, let's not use it here in Parliament. John Janez Janša is in court and does not attend. That's a bad signal. However, we must give a good signal that it is right, that it is right, that it is a right, that it is non-political and that the police, the judiciary and the prosecution act in a non-political manner. For as long as it doesn't happen, don't talk about some people who don't even have an indictment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleague Jerovšek for letting him off the agenda. Here you go. You have the floor. Right behind him, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Your Honor! My predecessors have given me so many references to this law, which we are dealing with today, which is a twin law, was created under the former Police Act and dealt with one of the most important areas. The police in each country are concerned about the security of the state and the property and security of the people, but there is always some scepticism, some reflection, some fear that if the police abuse their powers, they may change in relation to the citizens in their opposition. I think we have a minister who has gone through the entire police system, and I'm sure his personality guarantees us that he will keep the police strictly within the limits of marriage and that, as my predecessor has said, and I agree with that, the police will be apolitical. While the police must be loyal to all the then authorities, they must not stand alone and free themselves from being loyal to the country, but must also, in my opinion, be apolitical. I am sure that Slovenian police generally or in the vast majority always respect this and are so – I hope – raised and that this has been the case among the police in the previous term, but the police have often acted politically. But I don't blame the police, the police have also been politically abused by Minister Kresalova and her clients or the interests of the three KGP. Indeed, one of the reasons for this is that the Minister's Secretary of State, Mr Goran Klemenčič, has in fact given up on the fact that he disagreed with such methods of political instrumentalisation of the police as well as the National Investigation Office and that, in my opinion, he is extremely neutral and effective as Head of the Anti-Corruption Office. That's where the biggest change was made. I don't know if I can agree or not where his request to talk about corruption without names in the National Assembly was aimed. Look, then it was a plea for not talking about corruption in this national council. I think that if the police in their investigations, for example, talk about the reasonable suspicion of the crime of corruption and other crimes of economic crime, that if the media mentions that Members can also mention it. Otherwise, we'll really cut off our mandate and our jurisdiction here. I think we are first called to fight corruption and economic crime by all means, because it is also the cancer of our society and has brought us into the state we are in in the past mandates. I can't imagine how we can fulfill this sacred duty without saying that you can only talk about those who are in criminal proceedings in court. Look, in order to trade land in Ljubljana, I hope to say that it has been done, and many other things, for corrupt actions, so many clear rumors are needed from sentient mouths. In fact, I am interested or hope that there will be no coincidence that something great is happening again today, because I see that the first type of fighters from the Positive Slovenia Group is absent. I'm afraid it doesn't happen on a Master's degree anything like the second day in police investigations, when, together with the directors and directors of public institutions, they had to go to the magistrate and declare: Comrade Zoki, we swear to you and apologize for all the actions and actions of the mayor. His MPs could be his soldiers, but he was a terrible abuse of directors and directors of institutions, a terrible abuse which in normal society should immediately mean the resignation of an official who forces public officials to support what the police and law enforcement authorities say is justified in the suspicion of criminal and corruption. All this publicity, academic and other and columnists – I did not see one who would raise his voice here. This is worrying in this society that neither the qualified public nor that it is so dependent on these powerful people, who have in their hands a lot of money taken from our banks and elsewhere, and that they are instrumentalized for not being able to defend, in my opinion, crimes. This, colleagues and colleagues, is a terrible fact to which every Member and Member of this Assembly should be identified. It was also said earlier that, if my colleague Meh correctly understood that under this law, all police station commanders would be replaced in due course. No, it was in a draft, I'm afraid on request I don't know which union, but it's gone, it's not in the law anymore. It seems right to me that we have very good leaders or commanders, for whom some would even like to withdraw them as soon as possible so as not to fulfil their mission fairly and non-discriminatoryly and professionally. Earlier, Mr Misic, it has been said that this economic crime has plunged into all times of our society and that it does not interfere politically – in the work of the police, of course. I think that this law is a step forward so that there will be no political interference. For the former Minister was an exotic criterion for the selection of the directors of the general police, precisely because she had direct leverage for influence and pressure and the choice of the director. I think it is right that Minister Gorenak has joined the re-Europeanisation of the appointment of the Director of Police and also of the NPU Chairman, and that some hierarchical NPU link is urgently needed. I must also say that I understand Mr Chehovin's thinking about the need for anti-intelligence services within the police or the criminal service. However, I am only grateful that something like this has not happened in the time of our government, because I am afraid it is probably a sincere desire or a knowledge that something like this is necessary. But as soon as that government accepted it or seized it, they would take it as a trap that was set up, for the shouting would be so unknowable that it would be eavesdropped, stalked by the present authority, in general and in all ways and everyone. Let us be aware that the state of the spirit in this country is currently such that even if the current authority is 100 times justified, professionally, it cannot afford it. Because she was attacked when she blinked with a midget in that direction. That is why, while I am taking this unvoluntarily, frankly, and I am even sure that Mr Čehovin is very right, because all of this would probably have been in this country already, but I must go a little bit into the history of development or the genetics of this department, the Ministry of Home Affairs. In fact, even under the first Government of Demos was the Sova Intelligence Service, which has contact with foreign and competent authorities, within the interior ministry, and then became Mr Bizjak's internal minister in the second government of Drnovšk. At the time, he was a Christian Democrat and the left option could not possibly have imagined that the President of the Owl could have been one of the parties of democratic origin, without inheritance in the Continuity, and transferred the Owl to where it is today, directly under the Prime Minister. They did the same with economic relations, which should come under Peterlet as foreign minister, so they set up a special ministry that foreign relations were strictly separate and economic relations from the minister, who was also a Christian Democrat at the time. Of course, if it had not been for the apprehension of the parties to the continuity, then it would probably have been for this normal genetics to be more meaningfully demarcated than intelligence and these services, so that part of these functions could also be performed within the internal ministry – and legally, of course – would have come. But this is the then left which the successors sit here knowingly prevented and shut down Minister Biszak from doing so. There were also reports that the minister was planning a parallel police force. See, fellow Members, I would ask that they remain reasonable or that you do not prescribe anything that cannot be seen or present. Or should I ask myself why this law - the same as in the previous one - did not say that "we do not have bad intentions" this time. Under the previous law, which is also a police law, he said, "This time the opposition has no ill intentions." This was an extremely unconscious vomit from him, saying that many times bad intentions were present in the opposition. I'm afraid talking about collegiate police is also part of bad intentions. I expected him to also say in this law that even in this law, the opposition has no ill intentions, and he did not repeat it. I would also like to say something about information to the public, which is covered by Article 35 of the bill. I think it makes it possible for the public to be properly informed, but, of course, I also wish that always and everywhere information would be very correct and that the police and, of course, the criminal service inside should be shot at with some of the people who, at least in the past, have given more to strong eminence in the background, to the centres of power outside the current authorities and who have worked according to their instructions and have not been loyal to the ministries and to the government. That's why they leaked information. The police's enormously designed, prepared and executed actions have been compromised in advance; and this is still happening! Even many of them speak, even in the latest investigations of the Ljubljana mayor, that he was informed in time that he had played that pose of surprise. This is a compromise of police action, on the basis of which it is extremely unlikely that the police action will succeed. Remember, years ago, in Slovenia, when the special police unit in Koroška took action, I think against Kun or what he was called, the leader of a group. When the police came up, however, they broke into some of his premises, but those for whom they had relatively reliable information about illegal behaviour, drugs and the like could not prove anything to them because the action was compromised from the inside of the criminal police. That's what happens a lot. That's what Mr. Mousech was talking about, that they're dedicated people. They are still dedicated people, but not by this power consecrated, but by the moguls who sit on the money that was owned by the people and left our companies, from our banks. The police are facing extraordinary efforts and extraordinary work, as well as the extraordinary internal consolidation of policy, so that the navels with these people from the continuity, from the old left, as Lukšič says, in conjunction with the new left, will finally be cut once. This must simply happen in this country, otherwise we will not recover this country. On the table, we have a good law that makes it possible, but we must also be conscious and willing to — as I have mentioned before — be absurd, unheard of things, such as being called upon to support suspicions of crimes that have occurred to someone or to the mayor that this will not happen. That you're all gonna scream! For if the principals have to raise children to support the crimes, do you have to imagine what happened? They've lost all credibility! And there are many victims. Some of them must have done it knowingly. But the hero who refused to do so, the director of Merc, found himself! He found himself — but he is critical of our authority, of the present authorities — but there is a shining pattern in this area. However, I did not track anyone from politics, from the left, who would clearly highlight this and be hindered from the mayor's actions, put them on the municipal council and the National Assembly - we must also consider it, Mr President. This is the most outrageous thing that's ever happened in this country! And that we will build not only legislation on such grounds, but also police activity! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u166	When, ladies and gentlemen, we are just talking about, let's say, crime, economic crime. That's what I mean when I said before that we can't just talk about economic crime in the first place — I'm sorry, it's not! There is no economic crime in all environments! You can't talk like that. You can't talk like that. But we can speak very exactally, and let's say this one and this one, name this man, let's call him! But we, Madam Vice-President, Mr Vice-President, have an opportunity to form our investigative commission. That's what you say. We can do that. Let's do it! We'll do it once we think someone's done something wrong! You have a chance to do this. Therefore, it seems to me that unlawfully acquired property must be confiscated legally. Even though it was illegal, you have to prove it. And these evidentiary proceedings are with the police, the prosecution, not with us in Parliament. We need to create positive energy. I've always named the one with the name that I know is in criminal proceedings. Name it with your name on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, behind him is Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. If I accepted Mr Jerovska's challenge, I would start talking about arms trade and the most transparent transactions around the acquisition of Patriye and so on. But I won't. I'll talk about the marriage. The only thing I'm going to allow is for me to say with a little malice that the only thing that doesn't say in this marriage is something. In fact, it would have been written inside that the Police Administration Celje is our police academy because all the important personnel come from this police administration; from the Minister, to the former Director General, to the present one. But it's not meant to be bad, but the fact is, it's kind of distributed this way. Now, if we go to law school. From the outset, I will not repeat the things I said on behalf of the Group of Members, but I will say that marriage in many ways is a much improved version of the original draft. [[...]] I think it needs to be improved further in the process. I myself have a lot of comments that I do not intend to make at this stage, for example, in article 25 concerning the tasks of police administrations, we should determine which tasks these are, because, with the exception of point 7, the conduct of procedures with foreigners is nowhere else written where these provisions are. With regard to Article 38, I would simply say that I do not understand why this article, which otherwise speaks of cooperation with veteran and other state-owned organisations, has changed the doctrine that was quite appropriate in the old law, so that I think it is worse. Even if we had used the dictatorship in the Service in the Slovenian Army Act, in article 92, I would think it would have been better than it was in article 38 of the current law. Therefore, I would suggest that the remaining old provision be made because I feel that this cooperation is adequately resolved. I have a lot of comments, but let's say it's article 62. Here I have the most comments and it seems to me that the essential flaw in the content of this bill's proposal is the appointment in title, that it does not define the conditions for the appointment of a policeman or a criminalist, as well as a police inspector in the name of a job, a chief of the police environment, a higher criminal inspector and so on, which should otherwise be precisely defined in the act on organisation and systematisation. In particular, at all levels of work within the police, within the career system, it is necessary to provide added encouragement to the quality of work and commitment to the profession to achieve work results as a condition for performing work in higher titles and more demanding jobs, as well as discharge from such a job if there are no expected results as regulated by the Director and Commander in one of the drafts which was later withdrawn from the material. The clearly defined tasks, the realistic objectives, the specific responsibility of an individual and the possibility of comparing with a compatible environment provide, according to my assessment, the expected results. Article 65: Deprivation of police powers. I think we should keep one dictatorship. In fact, the Director-General writes here that he may, by a decision, deprive the police officer and the criminalist of the right to exercise police powers. I think we should add "partially or entirely". For it may happen that someone, for health reasons, is no longer able to perform a job with powers, but he is still able to perform another job where there are also powers, say, in administration or elsewhere. I think it would be right, even though we have written in the constitution that police should not be members of political parties. I think it would also be good to add in this article that "the Director-General of the Police shall, by a decision, deprive the police officer of the right to exercise police powers if he finds that he is a member of the political party." Otherwise, it is true that when a working relationship is concluded, everyone must sign a declaration stating that they are not members of any political party. I just don't think it would hurt to have these powers given even in this Article 65. With regard to Article 72, Relocation to specific posts. It seems to me that this dictatorship, that someone with a consent can move for a maximum of three years, with the possibility of an amicable extension and a total transfer of no more than nine years, seems to me that the total duration of nine years is a little too long. If a specific work takes longer, this should be resolved within the framework of systemisation, in an act of organisation and systematisation of a specific job, and not by temporary relocation for a maximum period of nine years. Now what happened – not because Mr Jerovšek spoke, but obviously in this Chamber we do not all understand what anti-intelligence activity means. The anti-intelligence activity is not that we are going to set up a system of espionage, denucation after each other, but that we are one of the few countries in the world that does not have officially solved anti-intelligence activities. I suppose, at least from some of the visits as an officer of the Security and Intelligence Board, it is illegal to do so, but if it is done, it is done. The owl is distinctly — or its task is an intelligence activity. The criminal police may be doing something like this, maybe they're monitoring things, but it's not systematic and it's not organized. Therefore, I think it is wrong that we do not have these self-protection activities organised in this country. However, this means that we are monitoring the work of foreign agents operating in our country so that we can control the work of industrial espionage, the work of some other services and so on. Not to mention the work that can be done inside, and Owl does not have the authority to do so exercised by our citizens for foreign countries. In fact, all these things are present. I think that Slovenia is quite well shot with these matters, and I think it would be right for us to think seriously about it in this country as well. Not because he proposed Jerka Čehovin and so on because I do not intend to do any police career, nor anti-intelligence or anything else. It's enough for me that I've already reached that age when I can retire tomorrow and I don't have to do commercials for it. However, as a citizen and as a Member of this Parliament, I believe that this is a problem in this country. That is why this problem is also exposed on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Čehovin, I am not actually going to argue with you, because I agree with much or most of this about the anti-intelligence service. I am aware of these shortcomings, but I explained earlier where the political reasons are, that we do not have this and in this way, because the left did not trust that, although the Minister from such a party, such a minister could have jurisdiction and transferred the entire VIS to another location and with entirely different powers. I agree that we do not have these anti-intelligence activities, including the prevention of industrial espionage and this, but I must say that it is partly in the interest of these large fish that have done fraud, domestic, and which are involved, say, in recent years in bank robbery. Because if the police had that authority, it would be clean, but you can't do it overnight, some of those big fish that basically belong to this old left or left. Secondly, Comrade Chehovin, when you first said what you would not talk about not speaking like me, I would even be happy if you were talking about the Prime Minister of the Government about the fact that he received an unknown sum of money from an unknown person on an unknown day. Do you not see that this part of the process, which is absolutely attached to the President of the Government, has already collapsed, discredited, that is why you do not speak any more. But I've listened here a thousand times, mostly from the old left, to these obviouss, and I didn't once say that you shouldn't talk about it, because they've become counterproductive to the broadcasters of this news and this design. But you don't have to worry, I'm sorry you don't talk about it. We must be so clear that we are fighting against phenomena that we should not be, but in this case, when the court or the prosecution has seized: an unknown day, in an unknown place, an unknown amount, which is really funny and will go to the anals of the prosecutor's fopas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, after him Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the organisation and the work of the police, perhaps an interesting question or even more interesting answer by the Ministry's representatives, how they assess how the Public Finance Balance Act, which has also dramatically affected the status of retired workers in the internal affairs bodies and also the police, will affect future personnel who want to be involved in the work of the police and will also expose their lives to security and order in our country. This issue was also unacceptable in the last amendment to the law we proposed to the government and far from letting anyone who exposes their professional careers and lives – you do not want to listen. So I am particularly interested in the view that you see these consequences in the long term, because in this law you have a novelty that you say will help to make it work more rationally. This is a fundamental development programme, a long-term development programme, a smooth functioning of the police and this fundamental development programme will also include, for example, staff, equipment, education. The National Assembly will adopt this document, I welcome that you do not exclude the National Assembly from this procedure, but. When you define people's staff and animation in these long-term activities, it would be very interesting to hear what would be the position even after their professional careers have ceased and whether they will then receive the reduction of rights, as is the case with current beneficiaries who are retired. In particular, on this occasion, I would point out the fact that somehow you want to organise such a work in the General Police Administration, which should have strategic tasks, as well as the police administration, which directs and coordinates work at the regional level, and police stations that directly carry out the tasks and powers of the police in the field, I do not detect any very important locations that, in the history of police development in Slovenia, certainly have all those involved in police activities in a very deep memory and very respect the location of the Gotnica, which has always been designed to train security personnel in the country. I do not see anywhere in these documents that this location would also have a special status for further training and development of both special police units and other police education. However, I think it is an extremely important location, even for this reason, because many generations that have already been trained in this location have experienced this extremely important experience, and it is right that such positive values in police training should be passed on to future generations. Nowhere in these documents is it specified that such an exercise range as Gotenica represents is listed in your documents as a location which is also of strategic importance for the development of police activities, especially special police units. I also ask what status Gotenica or the Gotenica polygon itself has at this moment, and I would also point out that the development of personnel, namely police training in these increasingly difficult situations, depends many times on how much resources we invest in equipment and facilities where they can also be trained. I know that a very specific plan has been drawn up, the equipment programme for this location, but apart from some of the minimum standards and conditions that are necessary for this activity to be carried out, there has not been a continuation of a project which is extremely important, in my view also because of the safety of citizens and citizens, which is highly dependent on the skills of police officers. I would also like to raise a question about police relations or their activities within the Schengen border area. I do not think that it is particularly necessary to explain that if police officers maintain a very good attitude towards people living in border areas, their work can be significantly more successful than that of police officers in reviewing and monitoring what the locals are doing at the border, and they are often doing more problems than giving them a sense of security. Why does this work and the organisation of the police not somehow change and define police cooperation with the local population more clearly? Otherwise, there is one article that speaks in a kind of flat-rate way that some relationship with the local community has to be and that some council can be called and similar, but these are forms of cooperation that are not bound and more polite. However, when we look at practical field work, it would be extremely important to make genuine contact with the people at the Schengen border, and it would certainly be more effective and, last but not least, the more rational functioning of the police themselves or of the entire organization than if you pay someone for each matter, send them and thereby generate additional costs. This is what we miss in our work so far, and also in this document that we have today or in this law, I do not see that any more visible movement is made. In fact, I am particularly concerned about the attitude towards veteran organisations. You have made it very clear in this law that it is nice and right that there is also a police veteran organisation, but you do not want to allow it any financial means so that this veteran organisation can also carry out its tasks with dignity. And once again, we are talking about that issue of attitude towards all those who may have completed their professional careers or are still actively engaged in police activity, but you will make it very clear in this law that if they want to organise themselves, to contribute, to raise funds, and the problem is solved for you. I think that even on this side there is a very unfair attitude towards veteran organisations, and I really don't know how you imagine successful work and how you would someday belong to this activity in the way I hope to say that it has always been in place in the past or in previous systems, that it was something crucial if you wanted to ensure a successful order, peace in your country. So the whole range of solutions you're predicting is moving away from really improving the conditions for police operations and thus security and peace. I really want some answers to these questions, visions. Can we really expect this relationship to change in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec, behind him Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! This is a law that has been in preparation since 2010, so at least part of the content or draft law is still the remainder of the previous mandate, and it was then written to the proponents: "All the police of the world are considered to be the same authorities because their regulation is typical hierarchical and sterilised." I will not go into this judgment, but I believe that this law will also prove, through these corrections from 2010 until this hearing, that this police, at least Slovenian, will not do so, but a hell of a living organization, where there is a very active interaction both within the organisation and the interaction of the organisation with citizens and citizens. They are probably rare citizens who have not yet met with the police under such or other circumstances. It is interesting that citizens want help from the police when we are in trouble, but if we do something wrong, here I will come mainly from this transport system or traffic offences, and at least we are always proud if not something else. So basically in everyday life, the police are some sort of skyscraper, without which they can't go. As we have already seen in the previous law, the current law has changed almost annually, and I am here once again expressing my support for the ministry or the ministry officials who have made this effort to prepare two marriage proposals that we will probably adopt this year. In the past, some projects have been successfully implemented, especially this entry into the so-called Schengen area, and I must tell you that unfortunately, even in recent times, some reckless and poorly developed solutions, particularly regarding the NPU and the regional organisation of the police, a little later. Even in the debate, it has already been said that Slovenian police work relatively well, there are always some deviations, but I think that is not the purpose of the law, because with the best law in the world we cannot solve everything because practice brings its own. Allow me to focus mainly on two issues; one is the ratio of the ministry to the police, and the other is the decentralisation of the police. The relationship between the Ministry and the police is aimed at the second chapter of the law. In my opinion, when I read this provision, there is nothing at stake; only some of these are certain entertainments, which we will not, in practice, detect, because the law provides nicely for the police to be a body within the Ministry and that the Minister has certain powers under the State Administration Act in relation to the body in the composition. The bill also sets out more specifically the type of guidance — such as basic, annual and individual orientations — which is considered to be targeted at all and how it is implemented. According to the law, the direction of the police means a systematic and planned action of guidelines and mandatory guidelines for the performance of police tasks with the aim of fulfilling the basic mission of the police and being implemented through written guidelines and instructions issued by the Minister. The minister has also stressed this many times in his performances, but apparently he has stumbled upon a number of deaf ears and is trying to involve him in some stories that are not there. Why? Because the bill makes it clear that the Minister's powers do not apply to police procedures whose orientation is taken by the competent state prosecutor on the basis of the law governing criminal proceedings. It further makes it very clear that, irrespective of the law governing criminal proceedings and the law governing cooperation between the police and the prosecution, it is considered that the State Prosecutor has taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial procedure from the moment he was informed of the crime. That is how many times the Minister's involvement in the work of the police ends. It is also very clear when the Minister can assign control. He may appoint a supervisor and other officials. It is also important when the Director-General of Police informs the Minister of any events relevant to the safety of life or protected persons or facilities, when he has to report to him on events in which several persons have lost their lives or material damage has occurred. Why am I talking about this? Because I have a feeling that, in the previous term, this story was actually happening more at some semi-family level than at some professional level. So, I welcome these intentions of the bill's proponents that these matters are very clearly defined in the law. The Minister may request reports, data and other documents relating to the performance of police work. Here I think the matter is crystal clear and you don't need some stories. With regard to the independence of the police or the new director's appointment, thank God we get this law! [[...]] It will no longer come to the appointment of the General State Police in this respect as it was in the previous term: I set you up, or the politics set you up, or we set you up. This is how I strongly support all the articles in this law. Now a few more words about strengthening the decentralisation and independence of police administrations. As we all know, the police are organised at three levels: at country level, regional level and local level. This organisation is determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me stress that, compared to the current regulation in the bill, particular emphasis has been placed on the greater autonomy of police administrations and thus the decentralisation of the police, at the clear strategic points of the General Police Administration. This is what a major mistake has been made in the previous term. I also welcome this fact that cooperation with the local community is strengthened by establishing reporting obligations at the request of the municipal council. A lot of local communities had this, and a lot of local communities didn't have it, and I think it's right in the law to set some guidelines, that it's the work of the police and the local community, but it's not that there's sometimes a stumbling block to each other. That is why I think that we must also unanimously confirm and accept solutions in this area. Unfortunately, at least those who come from Posavje, and probably from some other areas, we find some indiscretion of the previous cabinet at the Ministry when it missed the purpose of reorganising the police at regional level. This has already clearly demonstrated the report before the Committee on the prevention and repression of crime for 2011, which shows that there is little work possible on the ground where the former minister decided to abolish these police administrations at regional level. So, in Slovenj Gradc, Postojna and Krske. On this occasion, it may be possible for the Ministry to consider that, in the previous term, the project will turn in a different direction or give a backward idea. If we have abolished regional police administrations, this reorganisation has given us higher costs and a smaller impact, so it may be thought that in some future it will come back and that we will also allow the work of Slovenia, where in fact we are now seeing a rise in crime, a smaller number of police officers, to make this work even stronger back there. Maybe there was very little talk today about this supply of equipment to the police. The view of the car park at individual police stations gives the feeling that neglecting the police or their work in the past has gone in the wrong direction, so that police have to deal more with their safety than with the safety of other participants, as their driving fleet is very long. I believe that now is not the best time to think about new cars, but once a financial source is found, I hope that the police will be the one who will get new vehicles among the first, because this will protect both themselves and all citizens. I thought I'd discuss the NPU, too, but my colleagues have already said a lot about it, so I wouldn't go into it. Maybe two more things. Some of the debaters spoke about this so-called police within the police force, and I am afraid that the public is getting the wrong impression. I have a feeling the public will get the impression that we're going back to some leaded iron time. I must clearly deny this; it is not mentioned anywhere in the draft law either by letter or by comma. That's why empty fears are. However, what I have said by the SDS Group in the previous law, I repeat in this law: if there is any significant comment in today's debate or with the help of the public and the profession, I believe that we are all willing to listen to these professions and, in the next stages, to correct or brush up this law, that it will be really good material for both the police and citizens. I express my own support for this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich. After him, mag. Tonin and then mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives, Secretary of State from the Ministry! Today is a very important day and two important laws that are changing here in the National Assembly, namely, the tasks of the police as set out in the previous paragraph, as well as the organisation and work of the police. Earlier, one said in the debate that it is important that citizens and citizens feel safe and that is the task of the police. Security, what kind of security are we looking at? So, in the whole area safe, both in its own property, safe in the workplace, safe in the workplace and, of course, safe from various frauds, corruption, clienteleism, against all these odd jobs, also safe from alienating into tax havens, etc. It's the minister's responsibility. Yes, of course, the government's responsibility for the state of the country; the responsibility of the minister, each in his own field and as a whole as governments. For this purpose, the relations between the minister and the police must be established so that the matter can run in the direction of ensuring as much security as possible in this area. Has that been good enough or not? Obviously not, because if it were, then today we wouldn't have so much of this crime, which isn't to a large extent or investigated, if it's investigated, if it doesn't find a way out of the D.A.'s office or if it doesn't find a way out of the D.A.'s office to get sued, let alone legal convictions. Maybe there's some first-degree stuff going on, and then unfortunately there's no way forward. Also according to statistics, if we look at the number of economic crime cases committed in 2011, 8 000 800, almost 9 000, and in 2012 for the first half of the year almost 7 000 500. If this trend goes forward, then it will be significantly more done in 2012, the intensity already with this organisation or with the replacement of people, because it is always important who is in what place does not have the name of a particular organisation. By amending these two laws, both on tasks and now on the organisation of the police, we can expect more criminal acts to be resolved in all areas, not only in the economic field. The thoughts that some have about the NPU, which will now be within the criminal police – if we look at their statistics, have been really very modest. Besides, it's hard to make a flat-rate assessment, though. As many as they worked on these cases, so many complaints were made; this was probably one of the reasons why the Minister decided to prepare this amendment of legislation. Now we can say that there will be the police, on the one hand, at the Ministry, on the other hand, the prosecution, the director of the police, who will oversee the entire police segment, from the criminalist to everyone else, including the NPU; on the other hand, the prosecution. I hope and I am sure that this synergy will also lead to what we are all talking about here, that the seizure of illegally acquired property must begin – or is, as I have been told, almost impossible under the Criminal Procedure Act – and this synergy is also expected to come with a change in this legislation, so that it will start to run as it should. If you remember, I have already asked a question from both ministers, both Plitsnik and Gorenak, in public last month, and I said that I would start counting how much of this property will be confiscated, and this property, which will be confiscated, sold, should go to creating better conditions in Slovenian hospitals. That's what I promised to keep an eye on for the next three years, and I will. To date, one cent of this property has not been for patients in Slovenian hospitals to create better conditions. With this change, I expect to see the end of dealing with the burning thieves as well, and to start dealing with the essence of economic, banking, tax and crime, so that it does not remain the way it is. Where there's a mob, there are those on top, of course, who are untouchable, and they hope for everything. So, at all levels, do everything because no one can hurt them. Where the rule of law is supposed to be – and unfortunately, we do not have it, because if it were, we would not be in such a state now, in a bad condition as we are — everyone must be responsible for their actions. Not only to answer politically, in a way that some disappear from the political map of this country, but also for the actions that have been committed. Of course, I will ask the Minister, not on this occasion, but very quickly, what about the statement of suspicion of the crime service committed by our investigative commission in the previous term and put it on the State Prosecutor's Office. Has this thing moved on or not? Although I do not agree with Gaspar Gaspar Mišić many times, this time I very much agree with the part of his debate when he pointed out this, and with some who, Mr Meh, for example, spoke not in a lump sum, but in particular, about specific matters. Of course, it's not exactly our job, it's our job to warn, but if we do have such documents, it's also right to specifically warn – regardless of this color, because color doesn't play here, I think they play only honesty and dishonesty, so you were part of this corrupt system or not – what's going on here. I'm going to ask our ministers very quickly whether the allegations have already been written when I read a year ago that the tax investigation into the application of property has been completed for a period of time. For more than a year, this document — what is it, where are things? In short, it was the work of the NPU and among those with number one, so only one such complaint was made and so on. In short, I agree with the Ministry that these legislative changes are here, and we all, both Members and citizens, expect the successful and faster work of all these bodies. Actually, it's just getting too carried away. Some of these specific issues, when the investigations are completed, find that more than 20 times someone has misjudged the data — millions of euros in numbers — and - what I'm talking about, I'm talking about tax data - and nothing happens. People are simply running out of patience because they say that big fish stay dry, but they're busy, and many times it's happened that they've really dealt with hot thieves. [[...]] What was happening in the previous term and how infamous the Minister of the Interior ended up, is his story, which is far from being cleared in the Slovenian space, is also the story around the Bulmastifs, what was happening there, who and what did not do much about it, but now it is not a topic. [[...]] However, it is a matter of not being able to provoke this change in the legislation on the organisation and work of the police any longer without being responsible, I will tell the politicians. Because it was obvious at the time, as Rob once said to Jankovic, "I set you up, and I can put you down." Here it was the same, Kresalova also appointed the director of the police, apparently behind closed doors also told him that if he did not do well and work according to instructions, she would also suspend him. Of course, she had that option. That's why I'm happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u178	I myself would like to touch the National Investigation Office and its, let's say, transfer under the auspices of the criminal police. Some of you have made a big story out of this, if so far the National Investigation Office has been independent, independent, decided on everything, but now there will be some exposition of the criminal police, some extension of the minister's time, even so far you have gone in exaggeration. But it is only right that we look at the story in its entirety and present it honestly. Certainly in the Slovenian space, the National Investigation Office is considered a highly respected institution. More or less, it is well reported, its success and so on. But it must be made very clear that the National Investigation Office should employ the most trained criminals and other staff and that these people are paid the best. However, the key to the whole thing is that, after the current law, the National Investigation Office has chosen which cases it will deal with. But this possibility seems a little dangerous to me. Why should we choose a case, and why not another one? I don't know what criteria they used. They could use the criteria that a particular case could be solved. As a result, more or less successful cases have been dealt with. Finally, when they presented their results, the realization was very large and successful. But if they choose for themselves, it can also happen that the most difficult and difficult cases do not happen. Therefore, I think that the current amendment to the law is definitely improving this situation. In any case, it does not take the responsibility of the NPU to continue to work qualitatively and independently – it does not reduce wages for those employees, if I am very precise – but, more importantly, allows the National Investigation Office to receive from the criminal service, for example, guidance on which cases should be dealt with. This, however, makes sense to me, especially if there is a public feeling and the impression that small fish are always caught, while large fish are drifting away into the wide depths of the Pacific, if I am joking a little. In short, I think there is a good solution before us, so I see absolutely nothing in such terms and I think it makes even sense, and I think that the work of the National Investigation Office will be able to strengthen that the National Investigation Office will even gain greater weight, which is in the interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At this time, which I still have at my disposal, let me just reiterate that it will not be given to support the decision on the appropriateness of this law by the Social Democrats' Group. I also reiterate that, with today's date, we have received a letter from the Police Union of Slovenia that, in at least two elements, the law does not comply with the partners, but these are the fundamental provisions that were then laid down as those whose implementation was regulated, seemingly regulated, by a very turbulent situation between the Minister of Interior or the Ministry and the union. It is the rights of the union, the validity of the contract and similar matters – Articles 88 and 116 of the proposed law are the ones I am talking about. Nevertheless, I would still have some questions because of the speech given under the previous law on powers and also on the work of the police, which is related to the protection of sports events and other forms of mass-gathering of the public. On 10 October, an announcement was made in the publications that the organisers would have to pay for the additional work of the police. The curfew is set at between €16 and €27. I can't tell you now what opportunities have all been listed. Although I know that, for example, in public gatherings, the organizers must also provide medical care, and they must pay for it separately. But it has not been customary for police to pay until now, and the organizers argue that this additional cost will severely limit the possibility of organizing mass events, whether of a profitable or unprofitable nature. I would like to know whether it is consistent with the interested public with Article 45, which provides in paragraph 7 of the first paragraph that a police officer must not be a member of a political party and must issue a written statement thereon. I ask this because the police's request has been repeatedly addressed to the National Assembly because they considered this provision to be a violation of human rights. So, this right to free association. So much for this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps, first of all, any reply to those who have told us that one of the novels that has been submitted to the procedure before this law has been rejected only because it was the wrong proposalr. I would like to remind you that we have adopted nearly ten opposition laws in this mandate. In most cases, this is done by means of a special procedure. We have also adopted the law of one of the Members, which brings potentially the worst, most difficult financial consequences to this country, the Law on TES, among other things. So these indications of selecting whether the proposed coalition or the opposition is, these findings cannot stand and are somehow attracted to the hair. But they're handy, and that's what I have to say. In this mandate, we have adopted several laws of the previous government and the current opposition as a whole. Only this year, but it's not over yet. The other thing is that we do not select after who the proposer is, also, that Minister Gorenak has taken the two laws under way, following the previous motioner, after the minister from the previous term, which came from a completely different political option. It is true that at that time, Minister Gorenak of that time made an extensive analysis of the solutions brought by those laws. But if we're right, in these laws, a lot of that analysis is embedded in the solutions that are in this law that we now have before us. Among other things, you have found this to be true of some members of the opposition parties. I am and there is an article that is similar or identical, and most articles have been properly processed and bring solutions that were largely in line with the comments made by Mr Gorenak at the time, and now Minister Gorenak has taken them into account and has incorporated them into the law. By the way, these two laws did not end with a final hearing in the previous term, but not because of the opposition’s opposition’s opposition, which was about the same weight as the current opposition had in this mandate, but mainly because of the discourtesy of the previous government coalition, which was unable to process these laws and ended the piano. It seems to me that the solution provided by the law regarding the appointment of the Director-General of Police is appropriate. It is said that the procedure in this work is changing and after this solution we will no longer have a director who will be the personal choice of a specific minister. We are in the previous term, honourable fellow Members, who have come from your previous mandate in this mandate, in the SD Group or in the Positive Slovenia Group, you have made special changes to this provision of the law only in order to appoint a specific person to the specific post of Director-General of Police. And at the time, none of you who came into this mandate were talking about police politicisation, or political pressure on the police, or political recruitment in the police. Which is interesting. Now that this process is substantially changing, when the role of the minister in this process is substantially reduced, what we hear is that there is an attempt to exert political pressure, a political pattern, a political model, some political choice as to who will be the Director-General of the Police. I think it's actually a bad signal for all those who understand the law. If we had done a fair analysis of the solutions of the previous law and that, perhaps this significant change would have made a significant difference. It also seems to me that the provisions on the powers or tasks of the National Investigation Office are changing. This solution, too, that the National Investigation Office has so far chosen what it will investigate or choose, what it will not investigate and who it will not investigate, may be good from the point of view of the independence of the body. Maybe it's good, but from the point of view of crime, of solving crime, from the point of view that it goes here in this case, in this office for the most serious crimes, it's not good. If they did this to me, I don't know, the police administration, to choose which traffic offence they're going to sanction and which one they're not, then I'd understand that. But I don't understand this about the most serious crimes, the organisation of crime, the crime of white collars and so on. But here procedures must be consistent; here we will not now deal with whether someone took one or two pastes in the store, there would understand that they would have had such a solution. Here we deal with drugs, here we deal with trade in white goods, here we deal with whether someone has stolen a company or not, whether someone has laundered money or not; and solutions in this area and the speed and quality of solving procedures here must be sufficiently high and above all consistent. Colleagues, neither can there be criteria of the rule of law, whether a country is legal or not, or whether Janez Janša comes to court every Monday or not; even in cases where he does not need to be brought to court. The rule of law is that all those who deserve it come to court. All those who deserve it, including Mr Jankovic, including those in TES, Mr Meh, who are elsewhere and so on. I mean, all those people who are found to be in the investigation. But to come and to be invited at all. However, it is not the criterion of the rule of law that certain procedures lie somewhere in drawers after five years for a known person to be almost obsolete. That's probably not the criteria. This is probably not a criterion or a criterion and shows that the rule of law does not work. Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask if Mrs Bratušek, who is so rude to fellow Members, is trying to calm me down so that I can conclude my debate. I haven't given her any authority to suggest anything to direct me to the debate. She'll take the word when she has, and let her do it. I'd like to ask for a little courtesy, colleague. I'm asking for a little courtesy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u183	Good. Colleague Brother!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u184	I think that's the problem. The problem is especially because I don't know what would happen if any of us were stopped by the police and said, "Lord this and this, one day at some place you committed a traffic offence, this traffic offence is a thousand euros fine and, say, 15 grand. If you admit it right now, you get a 50% bonus!" How would you feel in this country of law that this would happen to you, say, on some road with the explanation I just said? What happens if such a sub-criminal procedure is initiated, let's say, on Janša's case. The rule of law shall apply where the documents can be used in a reasoned manner to initiate a criminal procedure, but not with any presumption without evidence. Like, say, Mrs Kociper was stopped by police somewhere in Šiška and I would say, "Mrs. Kociper, one day on some road, you've exceeded the speed by 100%, for which there's a fine of 1,000 euros and 15 penalty points." How would Mrs Kociper react in this state of law? I'm sure she'd be very happy to sign the warrant, and she'd be happy to get a 50% bonus. So when we talk about the rule of law, legal certainty, then we have to measure everything with the same vats — procedures, offences, crimes, criminal acts. Then we must also ensure that persons in related processes are dealt with in these processes in some appropriate time dynamics. That when the defendant is an officer of the President's office, the proceedings will not be completed within a month and a half or three months when someone is suing someone from the President's office and within four years. It's a legal state. We all have security and a guaranteed speed of trial, efficiency of trial under the same conditions. I hope that this part of the legislation, which is now changing, will allow one step closer to this legal certainty and the rule of law, especially because selection will no longer be possible, who and what will be dealt with from the worst criminal acts, but that everything will be dealt with among these worst investigative acts. Given that we now have only a decision before us to talk about whether the law is suitable for further consideration, I estimate that there is a case and that there will be a lot of possible inclusion, which will improve individual solutions; also with regard to organisation, substantive solutions, what better positions of any of the offices within the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Also Secretary of State Robert Marolt on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I thank you for this very interesting debate that I have listened to very carefully. I will try to answer some of your opinions, your opinions, your questions, and then the legislative procedure will continue. Initially, as regards the harmonisation of this law with trade unions. The point was made if the law in certain articles or individual articles was not in line with the unions. Here, if I may, I would explain to you that the so-called agreement between the police unions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30 May this year does not provide that police legislation will be harmonised or does not specify that it must be harmonised. This agreement provides in Article 18 that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not propose these two laws without social dialogue and seeking agreement with the unions. Here I must immediately explain to you that we have had a very correct, very professional social dialogue with the trade unions, which is also clear from the views of the police unions which have been published publicly on their websites, as well as from other publicly available documents. The social dialogue took place and there was also a search for consensus. Of course, the search for consensus does not mean agreement or agreement, but rather an effort to achieve as much as possible, to achieve consensus as possible. Of course, the search for consensus does not mean and cannot be reached a consensus purely 100%, to the last point and to the last comma. The Police Union of Slovenia was exposed. It is true that the Police Union of Slovenia did not take part in the last call for coordination, but of course we also responded to all their initiatives and proposals on the way and on an up-to-date basis. This was how social dialogue took place and there was also a search for consensus. I can also tell you in particular, with representatives of both unions, coordination meetings were held already on 11 June and 13 and 20 August, this last coordination meeting on 20 August, the representatives of the Police Union of Slovenia did not attend, while the other union had no problems and attended this meeting. That's how the government here, the ministry, they've done their job. The National Investigation Office has been exposed. Allow me to explain to you that the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police stipulates that the National Investigation Office is autonomous in the performance of its tasks. This amendment seeks to ensure an appropriate organisational, legislative, material and human resources framework for the long-term professional and efficient and, above all, the operational autonomous functioning of law enforcement and detection bodies. This proposed arrangement allows experts from different fields to be involved in the handling of cases at all stages of the hearing. In this way, multi-disciplinary research is ensured and only in this way can effective, up-to-date and quality work be ensured. The main objective of this Office or such a way of working is the specialisation of crime detection and investigation bodies, which means that the National Investigation Office specializes in those crimes that are most specific in Slovenia, in particular economic, financial, public financial and cybercrime and corruption. So from areas that are most at risk, as has already been exposed, social and economic regulation and the foundation of the country, and follow all technological innovations. The NPU will, with the knowledge of specific experts and appropriate technical and appropriate information support and – which is very important – through permanent education and training, provide more effective detection and investigation of such crime. As regards the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office. As already mentioned by the distinguished Mr President of the National Assembly, Dr Gregor Virant, this law is the fruit and result of quality coalition coordination of the law and a number of legal solutions have been improved by the intensive participation of members of the coalition. The Director of the National Investigation Office will be fully public and transparent and will be chosen in a transparent manner in accordance with the Public Servants Act. Thus, a call will be issued, the procedure will run through the Official Council, the Official Council will appoint a special three-member commission, the special three-member commission will carry out a selection procedure between the candidates applied for and the Director-General of the Police will then decide who she will appoint as director. It is therefore a system-wide arrangement, as is the case for other highest positions in the public administration. As far as the National Investigation Office is concerned, I think this is the most optimal solution, so that real work can be carried out smoothly, effectively and with all available human resources and financial resources and material resources. Here I would also like to point out that a Council for Police Law and Powers, composed of eminent internal and external experts, is also established in the Ministry of the Interior or in the police department, dealing with various professional issues and dilemmas relating to the application of police powers or police law. This is very important because it has also been exposed to these powers, which are newly regulated in this law or certain powers that have already been completed, are now being adequately developed. I fully agree with the President of the National Assembly, who said that, on the one hand, legislation is only a legal basis that lays down the conditions for the work of police or police officers, criminals and other employees, and on the other hand, it is an effective management, an effective internal organisational structure and, at the end of the effective work of individual police officers and criminals. As far as the targeted research project is concerned, I would like to point out here that this targeted research project on measuring the effectiveness of police work is about to be completed, which will finally offer an optimal model for managing and organising police work on the ground. This will be duly accepted in the near future. As far as the appointment of the Director-General of Police is concerned, the same conditions are laid down in the law as for the second highest position on official posts in the public administration or public sector. Here the law provides for an additional condition that 15 years of work experience, not anywhere in the state administration, but only in the police. So that he will be appointed Director General of Police and Director of the National Investigation Office exclusively as a career policeman. As regards the placement of the National Investigation Office, the National Investigation Office is now, with this bill, organizationally more clearly integrated into the Criminal Police Office. And once again, the National Investigation Office will be completely autonomous in its work, just like the whole police. The question of the auxiliary police was also raised. Allow me to explain to you here that union freedom is already a constitutional category and the law already clearly determines when police officers must carry out their duties even at the time of the strike. So, police officers already have a limited right to strike in marriage, and there is any fear of calling the auxiliary police, completely out of line. The financial implications of the new police legislation have also been highlighted. The financial implications are indeed valued at EUR 50 000 500, but they are for the payment of daily compensation for injured police officers, to which police officers have not been justified so far. This is also one of the consequences of the strike agreement between the Government and the police unions. A question or concern was also raised that certain requirements of police unions relating to salaries and other rights from the employment and service relationship should also be included in the articles. Here I would stress what Mr President of the National Assembly has already said that we do not break this law and cannot break the single wage system that applies to the entire public sector. With regard to the issue raised or the membership of police officers in the political party. Here we know that the Constitution already prohibits membership in political parties, both for policemen and for professional members of the defence forces. The law now clearly provides for sanctions in Article 61, namely, police powers are withdrawn from the police, and not only are they suspended, as previously laid down. So, here we are redefining membership in political parties because it is a constitutional category, but only sanctions are imposed for infringements. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm asking for your application. I can see that interest is in the debate. I'm opening the application. The application shall be made. Two Members and a Member of Parliament have been notified. The first word is Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, in the debate on the organisation and work of the police, we are discussing an extremely important area, an area which interferes with the functioning of the so-called repressive authorities. Following this standard classification, the police and the military are among the repressive authorities. The military is losing importance in modern times and is no longer such an important factor in the political context. That's why the role of the police is so much more important. Not only does the police ensure security and order and so on, the rest of the tasks that we are familiar with, but, in some way, with the prosecution and the judiciary, it can also have a very comprehensive and profound impact on human rights. In the past, these relationships were relatively simple: on the one hand, there was a strong country, sometimes a church that had great power, which accused, condemned and burned people who did or did not do anything wrong in one person. With the development of democracy, these relations have changed significantly and have changed so that responsibility for individual areas and for the protection of human rights provided by constitutions and different conventions has been divided into different bodies. In Positive Slovenia, it seems to us that another very important development is taking place in the context of the economic crisis; an event that can go deep into our fundamental statehood and the foundations of our democracy. Something important is happening in the field of so-called repressive organs and law enforcement. I am, in addition to the police, which we call a detection body, particularly the prosecution, but at the top of this branch there is, of course, a judiciary and there are very similar changes that we have witnessed so far. The basic sin was committed by the Government Act at the beginning of this mandate, when one of the areas which should be separate from law enforcement authorities by all democratic standards, from detection bodies, went to the Ministry of the Interior. Because there's been a lot of talk here, and since I have little time, I wouldn't lose my words. We are now left with the police area, the area of the judiciary, it is said, is also about to change and there are similar trends. When we received the first proposal for a draft law on police, we were appalled in Positive Slovenia. The three-member commission, which is supposed to appoint a police director, has withdrawn the powers of appointment and discharge of the police director, has been left alone and only to the police director. The powers of the National Investigation Office, which was intended to be lowered to the level of an organisational unit within the Police Directorate, and which is also very important, with one stroke, with one transitional decision, this coalition intended to replace all police station commanders and police station directors, chiefs and also the director of internal organisational units of the police. Whether the loud and effective opposition was the reason for the changes to the legislation below, whether it was aided by the media or something else, it is not important at all. We can be satisfied that we now have a law that is no longer as restrictive in this work and no longer represents a step backwards as it was before. But we are still not satisfied with this law. We are still not satisfied with the lower standard of appointing a police director. The previous regime was based on three independent experts who could also reject the proposal of the Minister of the Interior for the Director of Police. The current regime is a compromise that lowers the appointment of a police director to the level of appointment of another official and brings the Council of Officials to this appointment. What bothers us most is not what this director will be called, but how easy it will be to get rid of the Director of Police. I'd like to see an expert, a career officer, who will hope to oppose a director who will be able to resolve him at any time. The same is true with the National Investigation Office. And that's where the powers go down, and it's only been two years since this office was old. He didn't even have a chance to start concrete work! All experts, I have before me an article for which I do not have time now, Dr. Mesko, Dean of the Faculty of Security Sciences, reminds me that two years for the operation of the NPU is not enough and who thought they would do something in two years, he made a mistake. Please, let's take this legislation into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Vasle has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u190	Nice hello to you all! Let me get that for you one more time. Otherwise, I do not understand much about the organisation of the police, especially at these two levels, such as at the level of the State, the General Police Administration and not at the regional level, but I am meeting or would like to meet the police more often at local level. As you may see, for example, we do not see a policeman in the local environment quite often to be like, say, an English policeman who is present in a community, a local community, they know him on the street, they consider him a acquaintance, he knows people, he knows the problem. Here you'd agree that this decentralisation of the police will extend to these local, district police stations. More cooperation would also be good; this strengthening of cooperation with local communities, for example. I remember when I was still a municipal councillor, that we received at least once a year a report from the police station commander on the problem in the individual congregation, crime. We received this at least once a year, but if there was any need, we could have asked for it further. Now I don't know if it's still there, because for a while now I don't know it anymore, I don't follow it anymore. With these powers, a little extended, I'd agree. Even in this case, if I may say a little backward, I can also agree with the proposal of the so-called Wilfan law that the police have something more on television. Now we have this case with these radars in Maribor, when violators, those who have violated, have expressed themselves as if they were being violated by human rights. It's like some kind of proof that we still don't somehow recognize these countries as our own, that it's still a foreigner, that there's still some legacy from the Ottoman times when this country needs to be brought around, cheated, lied to, and so on. And they presented it as a violation of human rights. When I drove to the National Assembly this morning, it was this Thursday's poll, but I think those listeners who monitored it were very judgmental about these vandalisms in Maribor. I would say that there may have been a mistake here because the police or the city authorities are not doing this because it was a so-called public-private partnership. Some of us, who are more white-headed, also remember the so-called militia in the past, the kind of tail she had. For example, when we were students, there was a little too much fun and a policeman came around. But he was a man in a leather jacket and immediately became at peace because he had certain powers and had some belongings to this local work. So this proposal would be just to support it. If I only turn to Mrs Potrat's comments, I think about this officer's membership in the political parties of the military No, Mr Marolt explained this, that it was written in the constitution, but then I have one thought after that, let's say, the employees of ministries who are constantly present when the minister changes, when the Secretary of State changes, and so on, that then these ministry staff should not be members of political parties, or should then think of any change in the constitution. [[...]] [[...]] That would be so much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, and then he asked the government representative for a word, and we conclude with this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'm just going to continue here, where my colleague Vasle ended up. Of course, it is constitutional material that members of the military and the police must not be members of political parties. But their position is different. But I have warned about this, and I was wondering if this is coordinated, because the Secretary of State has warned of the consequences. The result is that, if someone makes a wrong statement, the penalty is to write down the wrong statement. And that seems to me at a time when we are witnessing a lot of disrespect for the word, statement or anything else, it is very important that this is now an exacerbation, in fact, after the sanctions have been imposed. I did not see the debate about these two laws as my personal definition of police because I have an ambivalent relationship with the police. On the one hand, it is a repressive organ, and on the other hand, it provides me with security. And when the police officer had vilified me for a traffic offence, I did not blame him for it, but I considered that he had fulfilled his obligation and warned me that the second time such nonsense — crossing the road outside the pedestrian crossing — I should never do it again. But that was during Minister Bohintz's time, so you'll know what it is. And this is where I'd like to continue. When we build a matter on trust alone, it depends very much on where we look at it again. Now I don't even know the new Director-General of Police, and I can't create trust for him. However, I had the opportunity in my previous reference to meet the former Director-General of the Police at the National Assembly on an official duty. His appearances did not arouse my mistrust, and I did not feel that his work was unprofessional. This is now the problem: when can we rely and build on our feelings and when do we have to have procedures, criteria, criteria that will not only build on something that can change, but will apply for a longer time. This is also how I see when we talk about the rigidity of the police, that this stiffness in fact has ensured that things do not change quickly, but are being treated according to some established practice. What could be highlighted in relation to education. I think education is very important, but after other parts of the public administration we have very much cut into resources for education. I'm aware there's a different situation in the police department. Since there is no special police school at the secondary level now, it is necessary to provide education for the ability to carry out these tasks and it seems to me that we cannot give up this. Of course, we would have few doubts about the allocation of funds, which is in that last chapter for education, for research and so on, if we were building everything on public surveys only. Surveys are a very common reflection of the current mood. If you ask me, I also condemn the burning of devices placed on intersections in Maribor. However, if you ask me whether I agree that 63 of them in Maribor must not have been informed by the public that there is a very questionable public-private partnership when 92% of the fine goes into private hands, but I have a hundred and one reason to oppose this measure in the municipality of Maribor. And the answers are always related to the question. I agree with the police that it's very important how safe people feel. But this must then be linked to some clearer criteria when we find out if this security is achieved [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Here I would reply to the doubts raised or the statement made by the honourable Member of Mr Meh. The fact is that this law will not – there is no legal basis for replacing all directors of police administrations or police station commanders. This is not in marriage, it is not a legal basis, so any fear in this direction is completely superfluous. The question of the payment of police work for public events was also raised earlier. The fact is that the payment of police work for public events is already laid down in the Public Assembly Act. Of course, this proposal for a law on the organisation and work of the police further elaborates on this provision in order to avoid any doubts in practice. With regard to the role of NPU, the National Investigation Office, this law gives the National Investigation Office an even greater role, is expected to be even more effective and is given greater autonomy and responsibility – exclusively by professions and not by politicians. This law thus confers sole responsibility on the profession. The issue of long-term development programmes was also raised earlier. This one's already in preparation. This development programme also includes the Gotenica facility, which should also be intended for the future use of this facility or for the training and training of police and special police units. Thus, this education, training will continue in the Gotenica area. I would point out once again that cooperation, strengthening cooperation with the local community, is one of the objectives of the law, and therefore the entire fifth chapter is intended to do so. The police station will cooperate with local communities in the preparation of the annual work plan and will also include the priorities of the local community in the work plan. It will also be obliged, as I mentioned earlier, to report to the municipal council, which will improve or provide a basis for more quality, more effective police and local community cooperation. And I would like to stress one more thing for the conclusion: the bill also places a greater emphasis on cooperation with civil society. In addition to these two laws, I would explain just a little more that the Government has also drawn up a strategy to deal with economic crime, because you have highlighted this area of economic crime in the course of the debate. This strategy for dealing with economic crime places a special emphasis on "the quick, efficient and up-to-date work of all competent national authorities". So not only the police, but also the prosecutions, the courts and, in particular, other state authorities involved in the detection of crimes. In this context, a new police working strategy in the community is also being prepared, with a focus on tackling the security problem, together with the local community, and this strategy also brings about a measure of effectiveness with regard to the satisfaction of the local community, the satisfaction of people and citizens with the work of the police and a sense of security, as Mr President of the National Assembly has pointed out. Of course, this strategy also highlights the introduction of the mission of a police officer, a police officer and, in the first place, with appropriate communication and promotion. Special emphasis is also placed on removing administrative obstacles and simplifying and decommissioning the work of police officers and police officers with unnecessary bureaucracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item, this is a draft resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2012-2016. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Mag. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Following the completion of the implementation of the Resolution on the National Crime Prevention and Suppression Programme for the period 2007-2011, the Interdepartmental Working Group, which brought together 21 representatives of ministries and representatives of two academic institutions, drew up a resolution for a new period. With the new resolution, we continue our efforts to maintain the commitments and standards already adopted in the field of security policy and build on the resolution in force so far. The main objective of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2012-2016 is to ensure permanent and long-term security for all people in Slovenia. The fundamental principle of the resolution is based on preventive action and not repression. As a result of this fact, the police are not the only body dealing with crime, so all those stakeholders who can in any way help prevent crime in specific areas are covered as the holders of individual tasks in the resolution. The resolution highlights 13 areas of crime prevention and control, namely property, economic, cyber, organised crime and the fight against terrorism; the area of illicit drugs, juvenile violence, domestic violence, assistance to victims of crime; the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions; environmental protection; and the prevention of environmental crime. The resolution also gives particular emphasis to the confiscation of property benefits and defines the concept of intelligence-led police activity. In all these phenomena of crime, we must not forget the fear of crime. It is important that people feel safe, which is also the fundamental objective of this resolution. To coordinate and oversee the implementation of the resolution, it is envisaged to establish an inter-ministerial working group composed of experts from various ministries and other bodies working in the field of crime prevention and control. In order to carry out the individual tasks set out in the resolution, no specific financial resources are planned, but will be planned within the framework of a programme-oriented budget for individual resources. We will also draw the bulk of the funds from the European funds. In the course of its consideration of the motion for a resolution, amendments were adopted on the home committee, which mainly followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and are editorial in nature. In addition, an amendment of a substantive nature was adopted on the home committee in section 6.11.4.2 of the Strategy/programme — Monitoring the implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. The chapter has changed so that it now reads: Taking away the property of an illegal source. The main change is that by the end of December of this year, an analysis of the implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is prepared and, by the end of January, the following year, the necessary amendments to the law with the aim of significantly increasing efficiency in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt the resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme in question for the period 2012-2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Maša Kociper, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Committee on the Interior shall be held at its 5th meeting, on 10. Ten. 2012 as a parent working body, considered the draft resolution on the national programme, prevention and repression of crime for the period 2013-2013 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, stated in a supplementary explanation that the objectives of the resolution are to ensure permanent security in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It explained that property and economic crime, organised crime activities, the fight against terrorism, cybercrime, illicit drug crime, juvenile violence, domestic violence, environmental crime and crime in the area of victims of crime and fear of crime and intelligence must be monitored and upgraded all the time. Special concern is given to the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the confiscation of property benefits, as the Secretary of State has already stressed. The Secretary of State added that the coordination of the motion for a resolution was determined by a special inter-ministerial group and the implementation of the resolution should not require specific resources, as these are already provided under the budget. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that their service had made comments to the motion for a resolution of a nominal technical nature, which were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. A representative of the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law, Dr. Dragan Petrovec, also participated. He said that he had no particular concerns about the resolution, but suggested that in subsection 6.13 the resolution of criminal sanctions would be more appropriate to intensify existing cooperation between the ministry services and not to establish a new probation service. Finally, he pointed out that the motion for a resolution should also be better defined before counterproductive effects of crime prevention and control programmes were eliminated. In doing so, he referred to the institution of non-refoulement for minor offences, which he considered to be constitutionally controversial. In the debate, Mrs Majda Potrata supported Dr Petrovec's concerns about the introduction of the probation service and proposed an amendment to the committee, but he did not accept it. The Member of the DeSUS Group, however, drew attention to the increasing incidence of violence against older persons in the family. Following a discussion on the individual chapters of the resolution and after the debate and vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on and adopted all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. After reading the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs, I would, in fact, continue with what Mr State Secretary has also started. First of all, with regard to the resolution; of course, the resolution is well-intentioned, full of many good proposals, measures and charitable objectives. Unfortunately, in Positive Slovenia, I wonder whether certain measures and targets have not been carried through the resolution for many years without having any effect in practice at all. Thus, every year, even after reviewing the reports on the implementation of resolutions, we can read about the objectives in areas such as: increasing mutual cooperation in the detection, investigation and prosecution of economic crimes, ensuring the continuous education of all state authorities dealing with economic crime, improving the effectiveness of detection and prosecution of economic crime, speeding up criminal proceedings and could also be listed. The holder of the economic crime strategy and programme, following a motion for a resolution, is the Supreme State Prosecutor, who, as we know, has been led by a very state secretary to this government for many years, and we would like many objectives to be met by this time. Otherwise, on behalf of the Group of Members, there are several reasons why these objectives have not yet been met. The first thing that bothers us and what we keep reminding us about is the constant change in legislation. Even the most important procedural rules are being amended, these are the rules defining the procedures for the operation of individual bodies. The most important thing is in this Law on Criminal Procedure. An extremely complex law that changes so often that neither experts, prosecutors nor judges can monitor these changes and then respond effectively and internalise them and implement them in practice. Only when someone internalises a legislative change will it take some time to implement it, will this change in practice come to life and can have positive effects. The constant change in the organisation is also linked to legislative changes in the process. One such case is the previously mentioned change in the organisation of the NPU. If we really mean it when we say we need to curb organised crime, economic crime and other dangerous crime, then why are we constantly changing the organization of the work of these bodies? This also interferes with their ability and power to act effectively. The Secretary of State himself, Mr Marolt, pointed out at the Committee's meeting that some solutions, particularly those so complex, need a year or more to come to life. When your government is constantly changing laws that have not even been in force for a year or two, we can really ask ourselves what they are meant to do. Of course, these changes are also related to human resources exchanges; whether it is for the first or for the first reason, I will not discuss and leave the judgment of each individual here. But the system is designed so that the systems, the so-called prosecution, the police and the judiciary and also the body within them, act in some sense as a brake and balance, "check and balance", as they say in English. In this context, it makes sense that the police authorities, such as the police director, then the prosecution authorities, such as the Attorney General, and the judiciary have some mandates, which are not partly covered by each other. Otherwise, there is a situation such as now that, within each mandate, all management personnel on these bodies are replaced and then a truly one political party or political power controls this whole area of action. And that's what we sometimes say a little bit easily: a police state or a repressive state. The meaning of these diverse mandates, which are sometimes five, sometimes six years, is precisely in this combination of individual political currents for another, that the director from one political area is in the police and the prosecutor from another. This enables this cooperation and co-control. Then there is a condition for quality work. We want all these bodies to work more and more effectively while at the same time giving them less and less money, including others, offices and others. But how can people who want to work and for whom we want to persecute the worst criminals who are protected, who protect them after a year and more of their children, do well and effectively if we are not willing to pay them even fair wages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I'm going to try to keep up the darkness as much as possible, without some valuable convictions, complexes and fears. As mentioned several times before, we have before us a resolution that speaks or gives an important signal of action in this area, especially in the light of the fact that just a few days ago, on the parental committee, we have also considered the 2010 and 2011 reports. The aim or desire of the resolution is to ensure that people in our country and on the basis of the proposed measures in a resolution that is far-reaching and all the actions that it foresees are effectively and lastingly achieved in such a social situation that people in our country feel safe. We have no reservations in the SDS Group until the resolution is adopted. More! We have actively participated in its improvement, particularly in the field of economic crime suppression and the confiscation of property benefits. Clearly, economic crime is becoming a ruckus of our country and, in the first place, zero tolerance is needed. While the general objectives of the resolution are well read, only after 2016 will we be able to know exactly and definitively whether they have been achieved. If they do, we will say more proudly in Slovenia that we are a real rule of law, but we are all in charge of achieving these goals. Crime prevention is the responsibility of every citizen, of course with the assistance of all institutions. Members also have an important role to play. In addition to adopting appropriate legislation in these specific areas, especially with our lives, we can set an example that we are not only full of words but also of acts about preventing and suppressing crime. As mentioned earlier, who would disagree and not support the objectives such as: to improve cooperation between detection and prosecution authorities, to create circumstances in which residents will feel more secure from crime and will be more pleased with the work of the police, the prosecutions and the courts, which we have been discussing almost all day. Who would disagree that our desire is to increase preventive activities in the field of work with children, adolescents and families? That it is our desire to create a situation that people will be able to trust more in the functioning of the rule of law and in particular the work of crime detection and prosecution bodies, the work of criminal courts and sanctions enforcement bodies, etc. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we believe that the support for the resolution will be unanimous. We will also give special attention to the adoption of legislation and other regulations, especially in practice in the SDS Group, to addressing economic crime and corruption, as such mechanisms must be put in place that will be able to prevent, recognize and, as soon as possible, also address and sanction these new emerging forms, especially through an effective institution for detecting and confiscating illicit property. With zero tolerance and effective expression of security measures and criminal sanctions, the conviction and awareness of the functioning of the rule of law must be strengthened. Here we believe that with the new police legislation, in particular this NPU will be more effective, more autonomous and more responsible, so we expect it to continue to be more successful. Moreover, in the SDS Group we also support all those measures and objectives in the resolution, which mainly address the areas of youth violence and domestic violence. This will play an important role in all segments of our values and in addition to the rights of the recently almost forgotten duties, especially since this is especially true among young people and in the family and society in general: what John learns is what John knows. In short, in the SDS Group we will give unanimous support to the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly defines the task of a resolution or national programme in specific areas. The task is to assess the situation and determine the policy in specific areas, and therefore the resolution cannot be different from the principled nature and outline of the basic guidelines. It is, of course, very interesting to see what the reports on the implementation of the resolutions say. The methodology for the preparation of resolutions is also more or less stable for different areas, so that areas are defined, carriers, measures, indicators, and after all we measure efficiency. It was a coincidence, or it is not a coincidence, that we were very close to discussing a new resolution 2012-2016 and, at the same time, a report on the two years of implementation of the previous resolution. There we could talk about the fact that the picture is not as panoramicly aligned as it is in the resolution and that implementation also shows how much someone from which area has been willing to report and report what is actually true or not. And that is precisely why I would point to two things in relation to the reports. The reports showed how useful Dr. Petrovec’s comment regarding the probation service was. Unfortunately, as has already been said, the amendment I have proposed to be an open article has not been adopted, but the very question of the purpose of setting up a new service, a new body, if it has the expertise in this service, can be raised here with so many concerns. With regard to the second finding relating to the reports, fear of crime is a fear of crime. It was heard that even fear of crime should be encouraged. Obviously, those who have said so have not read the resolution, because this chapter, which speaks of fear of crime, is actually aimed at reducing fear of it, promoting preventive measures to make people feel safe in life. This has been said, however, in one way or another, that it is the wish of the resolution to ensure permanent security. Public opinion measurements, Eurobarometer surveys also show that the people of the European Union consider this to be a particularly important acquisition, whether for other countries or for the country of Slovenia, so much more important, that this resolution makes it so clear how important the tasks are and that, regardless of the austerity measures, a forecasted survey was also carried out in 2013 to be carried out by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia on what we are now talking about, how we feel safe in our local environments. With regard to fear of crime, I would like to draw attention to another feature. victimization is also a major problem, but I link it to the area of domestic violence prevention. In particular, in the case of violence at this personal level, victimisation is very common. Since in Slovenia we have not yet managed, say, to regulate, by law, zero tolerance for child abuse, disrespect for children, this resolution seems very important to me, but on the other hand, that police have made significant progress in preventing domestic violence in particular. We will, as we say, support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you, Vice President. In developed and modern societies, security has a very important place among values and is one of the most important indicators of quality of living or life. The time in which the resolution on the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime that we have before us today and the time in which we accept it has not been the most favoured security as a good. This is partly due to the global economic crisis, which has led to an increase in unemployment, and this is in itself one of the primary and most recognizable threats to security and, on the other hand, we have been facing the rise of those emerging forms of crime that have had the most negative impact on the subjective security experience, as has been the case with the text of the resolution itself. In particular, there is an increasing number of crimes involving elements of violence, worse forms of property crime, drug abuse and the emerging forms of organised crime and economic crime. Above all, it is the latter, as well as the subservient economic and financial foundations of our society, and it is among the citizens that it creates the worst opinion and doubts about the functioning of the rule of law. The resolution of this trend takes into account and the issues raised give the necessary attention and weight. In doing so, it follows correctly from the conclusion that security is not a matter for each individual and is not a matter of just one state institution or just the police. At the same time, it is based on the fact that successful work in this area requires and is essential for the active participation of all those actors who, in their own framework, deal with this issue. The resolution boldly and ambitiously sets out the objectives, tasks and instruments for the prevention and suppression of crime for a four-year period. We have a resolution here, and we can argue that it is appropriate and timely in content and time. Even more, we can say she's good. But that's not enough. It does not solve anything in itself; it is only a starting point for all bearers of tasks to justify their mission and meet our expectations. Let me just point out, for example, that the resolution has a great deal of content in mind to combat economic crime, because it is present, it is on the rise, its investigation is a requirement and it is harmful to all of us. A National Investigation Office, an elite unit, with a specific status, has recently been established to investigate precisely such forms of criminality, which it also maintains in the new police legislation, which has already been discussed today. The Office also has the opportunity and obligation, through the implementation of the resolution, to justify its establishment and status and to meet our expectations or expectations of all honest citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the arguments just mentioned, we will support the adoption of this resolution in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme 2012-2016 The document, which, on the one hand, exposes the situation of our society, on the other hand, draws attention to those segments that we need to pay particular attention to and require our in-depth treatment, and shows how we work to deal successfully with the problems that exist. Criminality is not itself, its appearance in certain forms and segments is due to the fact that, somewhere and in a certain way, our country and society do not operate in a broader sense as they should, for such or other reasons. Monitoring, analysing and addressing different forms of crime over a period of time is a framework for those areas that we will devote most of our efforts to over the next four years and that we will continue to talk about a successful fight against crime after the end of this resolution when we adopt a new one. The resolution on the national programme for the prevention and control of crime for the period 2012-2016 focuses on thirteen areas which we can narrow down into several sentences. As a result of the economic crisis and the reduced income available, wealth and economic crime have increased, which are becoming increasingly violent, resourceful, carried out in an organised society, and are often entangled in an international dimension. They were joined by illicit drugs and cybercrime as an extremely lucrative criminal activity. Particular attention will be paid to victims of crime, intelligence-led police activities and the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the confiscation of property benefits. At the same time, we must not forget the highly subjective element of crime, the fear of crime itself. At this point, I would like to stop at something that we would like Members of the Slovenian People's Party to stress in particular. The analysis, which is the basis for the resolution, not only shows us the consequences of the fact that we are in the economic and social crisis, but also points out that we are also in a crisis of values. In such a deep crisis of values, we must also face plans to address juvenile violence, violence against the elderly and domestic violence in the country's strategic paper on the fight against crime. These are very sensitive areas because they interfere in the most intimate and private spheres of human life, in areas where each of us should feel the safest and most protected. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore support guidelines for more effective prevention in addition to effective prosecution of crime in the resolution. We are convinced that, above all, an effective preventive positive family and demographic policy is the country's. As also stated in our Constitution, it is the duty of the State to adopt measures that support and create conditions for parents to have the opportunity to provide and raise their children and young people in a way that will have the most important first and best example in their parents and regulated family life for the lives of values, mutual respect and patient conflict resolution. Security, such a beautiful word. But security isn't just about giving. Security is a good thing that we have to fight for every day, every single one of us, regardless of the position that someone is in, and no matter where we come from. Globalisation, unfortunately, brings a lot of negative things into our lives in addition to positive things. Only by working together to find solutions to address the social causes of crime will our fight be more successful. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware of their responsibilities in this area, so we will support the resolution on the national programme, which is the first step towards preventing and suppressing crime in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2012-2016. Slovenia is a relatively safe country, although according to the data of the last decade, the number of reported crimes is increasing. The growing problem is mainly the increase in violent crime, the lowering of the age limit of juvenile offenders, the classical and new forms of organised crime, the modern forms of economic crime and the functioning of foreign criminal associations both across and within the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution before us seeks to ensure that the people and residents of the Republic of Slovenia are provided with a safe environment, thus enabling quality of life. The proposal covers 13 areas of crime prevention and control, with the DeSUS Group focusing on the area of property and economic crime, taking away property benefits, organised crime, environmental protection, juvenile violence and domestic violence. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to draw further attention to violence against older persons in the context of domestic violence. For the profession points out that this is a serious problem, especially in times of crisis, when violence against the elderly has been proven more. The number of people who are more vulnerable and exposed to abuse is also increasing with demographic changes, as the number of older populations is steadily increasing. At the proposal of our Group of Members, an additional text was added to the Committee on the Interior on the protection of the elderly. We believe that it is right to pay particular attention to children and young people, but we must be aware of the fact that the elderly are part of the vulnerable category. Elders are the most common victims of domestic violence by their adult children, making it rare for them to apply and seek help. Victims are often silenced by fear of revenge and institutionalization and by the desire to protect the perpetrators of violence from consequences. The most widespread form of abuse in Slovenia is financial or economic abuse. A third of abused elderly people suffered such abuse. A good quarter suffered from mental abuse, and a fifth of them were neglected. Violence against the elderly does not occur only in the family circle, but also in the institutional environment. This is an area of violence against the elderly, which is least explored, because it is difficult to obtain concrete data. In institutions, abuse occurs where staff are inadequately and poorly trained, where excessive workload, shortage of staff and occupational burnout occur. Any violence constitutes a grave violation of human rights and a decrease in the quality of life of the affected. In order to protect the elderly from violence, awareness and understanding of their rights are essential, while at the same time promoting their social inclusion. In order to reduce the risk of accidental abuse, those who care for older people must be protected from overload, while providing them with adequate knowledge and skills. The involvement of all professional services at local level, as well as cooperation between state institutions and voluntary organisations dealing with the older population, is crucial in addressing this problem. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the motion for a resolution because we believe that it is continuing its efforts to preserve the commitments and standards already adopted in the area of security policy of the Republic of Slovenia, identifying key areas of threat to crime, identifying the main problems in curbing crime and indicating solutions for its more effective prevention, treatment and limitation. We are confident that the resolution will help raise awareness of violence against older persons and prepare preventive programmes based on the establishment of an intergenerational co-existence key to solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you. New Slovenia and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u212	Colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the crime prevention and control programme ahead of us is absolutely drawing the direction that the country is expected to take in the coming months and years. In some ways, however, it is also a good guide for the tasks to be carried out by this national assembly in order to adopt and to have better legislation and to be able to achieve these objectives. The areas affected by this resolution are assessed in Novi Slovenije that they are the right ones. And if in some way I touch every single area. If I first touch the hottest area, I would like to mention some concrete names. Let me first talk about economic crime. There was a lot of talk in this temple of democracy about that famous law about the seizure of illegally acquired property. We all find that it's a big problem. People, our citizens across many municipalities monitor how some in expensive cars, even more than 100,000 euros, drive their children to kindergarten, where they have free kindergarten. At first glance, everything seems relatively easy and quickly identifiable, but when the necessary legal solutions come to pass, somehow things exist. It should be a very simple matter. If there is any disproportionateity, it is clearly necessary to report it. And those who have been reported should prove and show how they have come to this property. Even if this thing now exists in some way, it's definitely ineffective if we ask ourselves how many people this illegally acquired property has been taken away. The other thing is the famous management acquisitions. Managers financed these companies more or less with loans, we know how they got them, and with the various awards they paid in companies for their successful work, they also paid 100,000, 200,000 and more euros. And these loans, of course, were paid in one way or another with dividends. However, in order to achieve high dividends, they had to frustrate the balance sheets of companies that companies showed good balance sheets. What am I trying to say, and why am I saying this? In order to make the crime more precise in our legislation, we should also define the act of abandonment. There's something we can do, and there's something we can do. In the case of management acquisitions, it has been most often shown that certain actions have been abandoned rather than invested in development, it has been invested in redemptions, dividends and the like. And this is one of the tasks of how to tackle matters more effectively, which must also be resolved by this national assembly. It's about property crime. It may be just the environment from which I come, under the greatest blow of this, but simply what is happening now in the area of metal theft, according to the local description in the area of turtles, is unheard of. And it may be such a banal case for someone, but that's just the way it is. And here, too, many people find things relatively simple, but when we get to prevent these things, it gets complicated again. According to our assessment, many things would have been solved if we had already asked those metal resellers who were being melted, proof of the origin of these metals, but there was already a lot of solution. Domestic violence. Unfortunately, the police here are the most exposed and most often injured, but it is not her greatest responsibility. Police are just the last stage when certain individuals fall under guns, axes, and more. And it is crucial for us here to act in a coordinated manner and connect all state institutions. I would like to conclude with the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We also find it unacceptable in Novi Slovenije that a prisoner costs a practical country more today than he gets a minimum wage employee. We should seriously start thinking about how to find a way, now it will sound very unusual for these prisoners to co-finance their sentences in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a resolution. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be made in thirty minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the seventh session of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u214	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. We will proceed with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 24. Ten. 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[It's a 35-year-old vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 16 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[It's a 35-year-old vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and second reading of the law. As no amendment has been adopted, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies, so we are voting on the law as a whole. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? If not, then I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my behalf, i.e. on your behalf, personally. Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against it and I will explain why. I used to hear about methods to check age or age. This X-ray is a long way from being reliable. For the first 10 years, it can still somehow be read on bone after X-ray, about, later, not there between 15 and 20 years. In principle, doctors do not do this after Hippocrates unless it is for the benefit of patients. From here here aversion to this German doctor and others across Europe. None of these methods are scientifically accurate at all. The programme for unaccompanied children in Europe also makes it clear that this determination would be taken into account only in the last phase when all other options are used. If you want to take into account the profession as you said, I would suggest that, for example, you take into account the opinion of sociologists who say that the biggest crisis in Slovenia is actually the biggest crisis of values. We're talking about dignity, about the value of life, about humanity. It's the same problem as it was trampled in the Personal Assistance Act. When we have a group of people who need help, it is essentially the largest mirror and indicator of the maturity of a society. Members of the National Assembly are also responsible for our self-responsibility, if you do not feel this responsibility, you can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u216	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you. I cannot support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection for two reasons. The first reason is what my colleague was talking about. A review to determine the age of adolescents is an optional measure. I am concerned about the team's payment, which, for these reasons stated by the colleague, will be very high. And the team will need to know the anthropological characteristics of adolescents for whom we want to get an objective test. It is true that the appearance of one from Africa, South America, South Republic, or other parts of the world, age appears to be relative and genetic and external appearances are also uncoordinated. Therefore, these are very relatively objective methods and should be very careful. The second reason is the abolition of the right to free legal aid in the first instance. I really do not support this; it is true that NGOs take responsibility, but we know how long it takes a non-governmental organisation to show or prove to the government and government officials that this data is accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u218	Mr Branko Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u219	I will vote against it because nothing else is going on in this amendment of the law but the objectives of the ruling option are hidden under the cover of austerity, especially its lower part of the dark prince, who are merely using the economic situation for other ideological purposes. So, everything that's not theirs, which doesn't have a chip that thinks on the principle of the military regime, has to be cleaned. And here I'm just wondering how much longer this bulldozer is going to be working with the goal of breaking something.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 34. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 34.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police. We will decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 present, with 82 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the bill on organisation and work in the police. We will decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on organisation and police work is suitable for further consideration. Explanations to the voice. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you, President. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the continuation of this law. This is a good foundation, which we hope will lead to a good marriage. In the Civil Gazette, we have been actively involved in the coordination of this law, and we have come to solutions like this moment before us. This is mainly about improving the solutions to the mandates of the commanders and chiefs of police administrations. It is a matter of maintaining the independence and placement of the NPU, as well as the procedure for appointing the Director of Police. We think this law is a good substitute for a final law that will be proud of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u222	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia shall have the floor of Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Chairman. In Positive Slovenia we oppose certain solutions in this law because we think they deviate from established democratic standards. These solutions are similarly indicated in the field of the prosecution and the judiciary and, together with extensive organisational changes and with the human resources changes that follow these changes, are seriously undermining some of the stable braking and balance systems that are supposed to be in place in modern societies. In this regard, I would like to draw back to the opinion of experts, too, they believe that often changing the ways of appointing police directors raises doubts and doubts about the political interests and political connections that could be hidden behind it and undermine the power of society as such to control these systems. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we reiterate that the previous solution to the appointment of the Police Director was very correct. It contained three independent experts who could have turned down a bad candidate. The current solution is a derogation from the established standards and is particularly problematic for us in the work where the Director of Police can be very, very easily resolved. If we adopt such provisions into our legislation, which will allow the highest representatives in the highest highly exposed cities to replace them just after a rapid process with a swing of hands, people who are successful, professional and who know how to run such bodies will no longer be able to decide for such places. The same concerns apply to changes in the field of the National Investigation Office. This office has not been operational for two years and to expect such a body, which has been completely new, the results so quickly, are not correct. Continuous changes also make it impossible for this body to carry out its work and finally to live in practice. In Positive Slovenia we will therefore not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a finding that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thus, the draft law will be allocated to the Committee on Home Affairs as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 17th item of the agenda, this is the motion for a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2012-2016. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. Ms Maša Kociper has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Chairman. Just a brief explanation on behalf of our Group of Members. Of course, such a resolution cannot be supported. The delegation of Positive Slovenia will support it. However, at the time of my presentation of my views, I have pointed out that some of the statements in such resolutions are repeated over the years and years as more needs to be done in the field of organised crime, more in the field of economic crime, more integration, changes in legislation, training of staff. All of these are instructions that have been drawn from the beginning of the first resolution. We stress that if someone forgot, this coalition had a very similar power and composition three years ago, it ruled four years ago, and many of it could have been done by now. But they're not, and now they're acting like they're only being born now, and now they're going to fix everything. We regret that you have not done it before, but of course we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u226	Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. 86 Members and Members were present and 86 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 86.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue to end the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 83 votes against 1. [[The vote was 83.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. There's no discrepancy either. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 6. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the proposal for a law on plant protection products. In the second reading, no amendments were tabled to the amended draft law and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. There's no internal disharmony. We're voting. 86 Members and Members were present and 86 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 86.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanations of vote shall first be on behalf of the parliamentary group. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the word of Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u227	Short. Since we are in favour of maintaining public higher education and quality universities, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u228	Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act is suitable for further consideration. As we know, this law changes the composition of the Council of Higher Education Institutions or the composition of the Council of NAKVIS in a European comparable way, extends the deadlines for accreditation of higher education institutions and programmes, regulates transnational education under the European Directive and leaves the establishment of a basic educational obligation to higher education institutions. It seems to us that these novelties are so important that they still need to be accepted. We have warned in yesterday's debate, more or less, that the situation in higher education is not rosy, that the situation is worrying. In the Slovenian People's Party, on the other hand, we have highlighted in particular the problem of the weak link between higher education and the economy and, in particular, the failure to adapt the number of study places to the needs of the labour market. As a result, youth unemployment is extremely high, and many of them no longer see any future in us. Of course, this law will not solve these many problems and the Minister will have much work to do in this area. We are convinced, however, that this law represents a small step towards improving the quality, independence and, above all, the responsibility of all stakeholders in higher education. We support the law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u231	We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The adoption of this law is in the interest of students and students, as it solves issues of complications with accreditation, which could lead to a situation where the documents issued to some who finish studies would no longer be valid. Therefore, the adoption of this law is in a hurry. The adoption of this law is also in the interest of taxpayers, because in Slovenia, because there is not enough room for foreign competition in this area, a reminder has already been given by the European Commission. If we want to avoid the next stage, which also entails penalties, the daily penalty may be at the price of a medium-class car as usual, this law should be adopted as soon as possible. This will also bring our legal order into line with the requirements of the European Union. Finally, the adoption of this law is also in the interest of the institutions concerned, as it gives them more academic freedom and more responsibility. The Rectors will now be able to allocate the number of hours themselves between the duties that touch the lectures and, of course, the research work and everything else, which includes the work obligations of individual lecturers at universities. The adoption of this law is in the developmental interest of the State of Slovenia, because it is clear that only the openness of competition in the long term strengthens quality, opens up new development opportunities, releases new ideas and leads us to a goal that I firmly believe is what we all want: that as many young people as possible not only go to study, but actually successfully complete studies and acquire the knowledge that they can successfully compete within the borders of the State of Slovenia, within the European Union and in the globalised world on the global labour market. Only in this case will these people be able to enrich themselves, their families, and the country of Slovenia as a whole. With these arguments, we will vote in the SDS Group that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. As the opposition party, we have used all possible business routes to convince the ruling coalition and the responsible ministry that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act is a law that does not have support in the public interest, not in the professional public, not in the vast majority of the political space. Unfortunately, we did not succeed either at Zuyf, nor at the budget's rebalancing, nor at the urgent meeting of the committee, to achieve that policy would listen to the profession. It is ignorance and arrogance of a particular kind and the Social Democrats in the permanent damage to the Slovenian higher education area we do not intend to participate. The law, which was originally prepared almost in illegality, two days to be discussed and initially envisaged, after a short period of time, only at the request of the opposition by regular procedure, did not remove in any way those weaknesses which were fundamental: unjustifiable and disproportionate savings in higher education and science, disproportionate and inadequate political interference with the autonomy of higher education. And there is nothing to guarantee a higher quality of higher education. Nobody talks about not being able to improve a lot in higher education. But taking into account the resolution on higher education, it is quite clear that the advantage of public higher education – without tuition, that the possibility of co-financing from public funds has a private sphere only in cases where this is exceptional excellence or the elimination of grey foxes not covered by the public higher education sphere. Here, however, regular funding of higher education is now at the global level of established universities. I mean, of course, especially the oldest among them, it's in Ljubljana, it's in the second Mariborian, and it's also in the seaside, but novogorica is in any case a private university. We haven't even heard any calls since the establishment of new universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u234	We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a higher education law is suitable for further consideration, but we have some explanations for the vote on a case-by-case basis. Mrs. Tamara Vont, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The situation in higher education is not pink because the Ministry is taking her money, most of all items. The quality scale, which fortunately does not depend on the coalition, speaks out quite differently from what is said here by those who know little about it. However, the links between higher education and the economy that should not exist could be taken care of by those who speak the most loudly about it today in all the years they have been in the government. But obviously nothing happened. You're criticizing yourself. Europe's warning is being misused to justify the government's will and unwillingness to engage in dialogue, as it does not specify in any way what changes should be made. However, it does not specifically stipulate that they should be accepted as they are. With the exception of the self-sufficient minister and his few assistants, the profession was completely overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u236	Anybody else want to explain their voice? There's still some interest. I'm opening the application. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik will first explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I will not support the bill because the one written is not useful and does not need higher education. The other way around. The adoption and adoption of this law is only a reflection of the fact that the ruling coalition does not listen and is not prepared to listen to professional reasons and, of course, to the method of reasoning, this is academic expression. With this law, we will not solve anything other than the politicisation of the NAKVIS world, which will be influenced by the government. This will also affect the accreditation of programmes. For this reason, of course, I cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u238	Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u239	I will not support this law myself, but perhaps something should be done in higher education, but rather in respect of the profession, so that they can be asked to do an analysis of the existing situation. Nobody said what about those higher education institutions that were set up five years ago, six years ago, what they did. I am, of course, afraid that we will get paid higher education, that accessibility will not be according to ability, but through money, and that we will increase the gap between needs and what the real economy needs. I don't think foreigners will be able to organize those educational programs that will then get a job here. They will recruit our staff for their needs, what they are already doing at existing universities and also higher education institutions. They're all against, college professors, union, professional and other public, the only government that says it's for the good of universities and students, and they're all against it. I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u240	Mrs. Tina Comel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. The Novela will significantly improve the quality of studies, as research competitiveness of universities and the quality of Slovenian education will visibly be reduced. With a careful review and analysis of the novel of the Higher Education Act, I have come to the conclusion that this law is also weak and extremely harmful to higher education and increases social inequality, so unfortunately I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u242	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u243	Thank you. Dearly beloved, we have previously heard from the position that this law supports all the institutions, but unfortunately here a great lie has been told, Mr Grims. I'll say it first. As I find with great concern that we are facing the greatest threat to our future in Slovenia today, this is the poverty of mind and mind, I will not support the law. I will read what was signed and written by the Rector of the University of Maribor, Prof. Dr. Daniel Rebolj, Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Stane Peyovnik, President of the Student Organisation of Slovenia Mitja Urbanc, President of the VIR Union Bojan Hribar, President of the Marko Marinič High School Union, President of the Independent Union, Dr. Tomaž Sajovic, and Branimir Štrukelj. So: "The higher education community looks with great concern at the latest action of the competent minister for education, science, culture and sport in the field of higher education and science, which destroys the fundamentals of the public higher education and research system and, in the name of the urgent changes that require a rapid response, completely ignores key participants, in addition to those working at universities and students, particularly representatives of the economy, state and local institutions, culture, sport and others affected. So all of them, without whom the future is not common to all of us and the only of Slovenia."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u244	Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Our concern should be for public institutions in all areas, health care, education, higher education, not to mention further. But all these small-step laws show that we want to achieve what is public must be bad, what is private and what is foreign, and it will be good. I cannot support this law for a simple reason, even though it has been said that the rectors will have more freedom. Yeah, you're gonna give it to them, I heard like I'm going to the store, I get money for slippers, and I buy winter growers. And if I don't buy them, you'll punish me with 10,000 euros. That's what the minister here promised yesterday that they'd be punished. We're making a fool out of this country. And who will take care of these public institutions in the face of such threats that have crept into the times of all our lives? I cannot support this law, and I hope that it will not be voted out and that we will use quite a few brains to get us on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u246	We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law on higher education is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 34. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will be allocated to the labour force, namely the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We will vote on the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly agrees to amend and supplement the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations of 20. 9. 2012. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it that consensus has been adopted. I'm closing the agenda. We're moving on to 13. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on scientific and technological cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer, who also submitted a written report. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body during the second reading and therefore no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the ratification of the Convention on the Return of Courts and Extrajudicial Leaves in Civil or Economic Matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. He considered him as the working body of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which also reported in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies, so that we can vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda. These are Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge the duties of a member of the National Election Commission, Mr Dusan Strnad. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There's 83 votes against no one. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no candidates for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mr Miha Klun a member of the National Election Commission. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. The proposal was submitted by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Two of them have been reported. Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. In a few minutes, we will be deciding on the appointment of the RTV Supervisory Board after the National Assembly has resolved the members of the RTV Supervisory Board from the quota of the National Assembly last month. The key reason for the resolution was, in short, the poor supervision of the RTV company, because the operating errors were identified by the Court of Auditors, the ABC independent audit house, as an authorised auditor, the RTV programme council, i.e. all those who reviewed the operation of the institution. The Court of Auditors found 21 million errors in the audit, a fifth of the RTV budget. Those entrusted with the appointment of supervisors were obliged to react and resolve the supervisors, as should any responsible owner entrusted with the management and supervision of third parties, for any delay in non-action would only increase the effect. The resolution of the old and the appointment of new overseers have been accompanied or accompanied by interesting responses, and there is likely to be no significant difference in the debate today. The fact that some are defending inefficient controllers or managers of public property on all scales is a common practice in previous mandates. There's nothing going on here, and there's probably nothing going to change. In the debates, however, everything was clear, including that the decisions of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the National Assembly were illegal or even unconstitutional, which is neither valid nor sustainable. We do not have any decision or decision of the Constitutional Court, which in any way relates to early changes in the supervisory board or the RTV programming board, but many debaters have spoken of unconstitutionality. However, there are four judgments of the Administrative Court, which have been appealed against by four dismissed members of the RTV Supervisory Board, which were resolved by the Government for a few weeks earlier for similar reasons as the National Assembly. In each of the lawsuits, the three-member Chamber of Judges, which was chaired by another judge each time. And the composition of the Senate was, in fact, different every time. However, all the Senate have decided the same, and the lawsuits have been dropped. Nor did the Administrative Court, which assessed legality, establish illegality. The claims of unconstitutionality and illegality do not stand, which means that the Constitution and the law have been politically abused to defend supervisors who have been poorly engaged and who have also been poorly defending public interest. And these claims are an example of how institutions can be abused, in this case the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court, in defence and protection of bad supervisors. The persistence of those who defend bad concepts or poor conceptual operators with such abuses and interpretations is not surprising. More or less, these methods have been used for decades, and so we have gone where we did not want to go. That is why we also have so many problems in solving problems in other institutions, such as banks, in the management of state silver, in many services and in companies in the public sector and in state property. Especially because it must not be cut down in some sanctity unless it so decides. We hope that the new Supervisory Board will be determined to address the irregularities identified, to prevent the emergence of new irregularities, to take appropriate action against violators and to approach the exploitation of radiotelevision reserves and potentials, as it is incredible that such an action will take place in such a large and long period of time. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The system wouldn't exist. In the parliamentary group, we will vote in favour of both decisions of the Mandate-Electorial Commission for the new constituent supervisory board of RTV. It will also be possible to prepare the budget in time before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u248	Thank you. This was a presentation of the views of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Janko Weber, I also apologize for the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. If I say that, usually, when I represent the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I begin by welcoming you all well on behalf of the Social Democrats. At this point in the agenda, I cannot do this because we are in the Group of Social Democrats appalled at the conduct of the ruling coalition, as well as the President of the Parliament-Electorial Commission of colleague Sonja Ramšak, who allowed us to initiate an illegal procedure in the National Assembly. This is not a procedure initiated by the Government, it is not a procedure that I do not know who is directing us, but a procedure that is fully pursued by the National Assembly. The National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, should be extremely careful not to violate the laws because it sets a poor example for all of whom we demand to respect legislation. Today we have also adopted two laws in the field of police. It also states that it is intended to protect the rule of law. Please, how can we also ask the police to act in a direction to protect the rule of law, but if in the National Assembly a free-standing coalition starts an illegal discharge procedure for members of the Radiotelevision Slovenia Supervisory Board?Oh, my God! This is not just a finding from the Social Democrats' Group. This is also based on constitutional practice. This is also reflected in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has made it very clear in its opinion that what you are doing in the resolution of the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia and consequently today by appointing members of the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia, is the illegal conduct of the ruling coalition. An extremely poor example and I do not think it is surprising that both the government's reputation and the ruling coalition in the public are declining, and I think that you do not have any face at all, that you can tell anyone that he acted contrary to the law at any time, because this conduct is quite clear about such a nature. In view of the procedure under way under the illegal procedure relating to the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, we have also proposed members ourselves because, otherwise, if no new Supervisory Board had been appointed, additional legality would have arisen because Radiotelevision Slovenia would not have had an authority that could draw up a financial plan for the following year. In this process, we are trying at least to prevent another additional illegal act, and perhaps by the presence of both our member and some other members coming from different parties, but to prevent the entire policy or competences of the Supervisory Council from exercising only and only a ruling coalition, which we know is not actually willing to listen to one argument, should it be justified by a constitutional practice to be justified by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, be justified by the most prominent legal experts in Slovenia or by experts in the field of finance, economy. There is nothing in the Constitution or the ruling coalition of the rule of law. There is a coalition treaty for you and blindly following what is commanded in this coalition treaty. This is unacceptable behaviour and, of course, we cannot support the appointment of members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u250	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I am informed that four of my colleagues have given up the debate, but not Mr Jože Tanko. Would you like to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Here we can very much talk again about the unconstitutionality of the proposal or the illegality of this proposal. Until now, the Constitutional Court has never ruled in the event of early dismissal of supervisors or members of the RTV Programme Board. Never. The decision to which you refer was issued in 1994 and at that time the Constitutional Court assessed the case of the discharge of Mr Jark Petan, the then Director General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, and found that he had been dismissed in the wrong way. However, there is no case law of the Constitutional Court on the resolution and early resolution of supervisors or members of the Programme Council. And those who speak of unconstitutionality are very keen to interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court. If nothing else, we would at least ask the Constitutional Court to issue a directive, a rule, an additional supplementary decision or anything at the time of dealing with the discharge of supervisors. To get some document from the Constitutional Court. It is dangerous to place the National Assembly in the role of one who speaks of what is constitutionally controversial or constitutionally indisputable without having any basis. Yesterday Mrs Potara discussed the fact that the National Assembly could not be a language judgment. Neither can the National Assembly be and does it have the role of constitutional judgment, not only in language, but the National Assembly does not have the role of court in specific cases. When you talk about illegal procedures, colleagues, see if you can obtain decisions from the Administrative Court when four dismissed members of the RTV Supervisory Board complained to the Administrative Court. The four Chambers were established. Each Senate had a different composition and none of the senators in these discharge procedures decided positively for the benefit of those who complained. They dropped their complaints. In this case, it is also very heartwarming that anyone interprets this as an illegal act or act. I don't think it's right that we're trying to put the National Assembly in a situation where it's perfectly normal, under some sub-theme of unconstitutionality or illegality. The National Assembly, when it is the one who decides in these matters, is the one who must act as a caring owner, as in other cases. And should it be found that the members appointed by the National Assembly to certain bodies of institutions, institutions and so forth have failed to carry out the tasks entrusted to them, in accordance with the legislation – and here again you can rely on the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, which has found great irregularities, or the auditor or other authority of RTV – then it is likely that the National Assembly is obliged to act and take a decision that may not have affected anyone after a year, but that is the only logical decision if we want the operation of the public institution of RTV or any other institution to change in any other case at all. And those who defend their members in these supervisory councils, which you have just named, with these problems of unconstitutionality, of illegality, you must defend them with actual documents and decisions. This is logical, but not with some ad hoc opinions drawn, which have no relevant weight. We cannot speak of unconstitutionality unless the Constitutional Court has ruled in this particular case, or of illegality, if the court which has decided has dismissed the appeal. It seems to me that even in a number of other cases, when certain errors, shortcomings, weaknesses of those who have been entrusted with the management of our property or the control of this property have to be done in the same way. But not to defend individuals with a certain political profile on all scales. Just because they're from somewhere in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u252	I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Slovenia as members of the RTV Supervisory Board Mr Bogomir Eržen, Mr Damian Knap and Mrs Gordana Višinski. Explanations to the voice. First, I ask if anyone wants a word on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm gonna put in a report because I don't know who called first and let the coincidence decide. He's got the word "magic" first. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u253	Dear and respected opposition, I think you have only one problem with this matter. You see the illegality of the dismissal of previous members. I ask you why you then proposed new members to this Supervisory Board. Because it makes sense to me that if a solution is illegal, then a new appointment is illegal. And if you claim that the settlement was illegal, explain why you're proposing new members. If Nova Slovenije had assessed that this was an illegal matter, she would certainly not have been involved in such illegal matters. I believe you will explain this duality of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u254	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maša Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Respectable coalition, indeed, we only have one problem. We do not want this National Assembly to make illegal decisions. That's our only problem. Anti-constitutional, too. Mr Tanko, Mr Krivic, an expert, former Constitutional Judge, and Mr Kersevan wrote if you do not believe us that this body, the National Assembly, must only ensure that it works legally and constitutionally. Only when there is doubt, after all the good intentions of the National Assembly, shall the Constitutional Court be involved. It is not meant that the Constitutional Court there is watching over every decision we make and that the post-festum corrects it. And this is a deception to turn the opposition to the illegality of the decision into an obstacle to getting rid of people who did not do well. Positive Slovenia had nothing to do with these people. Whatever your opinion of whether these people have done good, bad, worthless, destructive, you must – at least in a democratic country – follow the procedure by which they can be replaced. That's all this is about. You can replace them as often as you like if you follow the procedure. And you didn't do that, so the whole debate about whether they were good, bad or whatever is totally out of line. You misused the procedure, that's what many experts said, and that's what the Legal and Legal Service said. And when you say that the court has ruled, the court, I don't know the decision, but you and others, Mrs Ramšak, have dismissed the action, rejected it, that means that it has ruled procedurally that something procedural was wrong, whether the court is not yet competent at this stage, whether it was an incomplete role or something like that. When it rejects or confirms, the court will decide on a substantive basis. And until then, we don't know what the decision will be. That's why all this saying that we're moving around here is a big deal. Here we have a dangerous precedent, at which we wanted to point out that we are making decisions that the profession says are illegal. And the answer to Mr. Tonin. Yeah, well, that'd be good, you'd be solving it illegally, and then we'd be so ethical that we wouldn't name it, so then those who would settle it illegally, then name theirs, and then that would be the best thing at all. We're just kidding around here. It is absolutely necessary to appoint people – but legally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u256	Now we're going to get to the explanations. There's no need to explain. We may move to a vote on a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board. There's still some will to explain the voice. Before I give the floor to explain my voice, let me warn you that this is about explanations of vote, so it is not about controversy, it is not about debate, it is not about debate and try to stick to it. First of all, Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor to explain. Did you think you were voting? Wait, let me see. There's a really long list of reasons. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u257	I'll vote against it, but let me say that Maribor leads 1-0.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u258	Good. This abuse of the rules of procedure is somehow forgiven. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u259	It is true that this solution, which is proposed today or proposed by the National Assembly, should not lead 1 : 0 neither the position nor the opposition. I fear that when the Law-Legal Service, which should be our basic law in our conduct, tells us that the procedure is illegal, that we are going to do what we are trying to do today. That's not how you do it. We can talk all the time about how audit houses are, the Court of Auditors, that they've done everything. Let's do a legal procedure, we'll point that out. To talk about this, and not to worry about the institution being able to operate normally, but at the same time to establish another television, and to reduce funds to this public institution, means that we are deliberately working to ensure that this public institution is not successful, so I will vote absolutely against this resolution and I object that we do not respect what is fundamental to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u260	Good. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 6. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We also have a proposal for a decision appointing two additional members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. I'm not going to explain why we have two different conclusions. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u261	The State choice is not an Court of Auditors or a language judgment, less any other form of court. Surely, however, this legislative body, which must work, is already legally in the name of the trace. However, in these procedures, of course, we are not legally acting, and if anyone knows best, Mr Tanko knows. At its previous meeting, the National Assembly or the ruling coalition voted in favour of the discharge of the members of the Radio Television Supervisory Board appointed by the Council in the previous term, although this mandate has not actually expired. In Positive Slovenia we then warned that it was a brutal takeover of the public service Radiotelevision. In addition, the discharge itself occurred despite the fact that the Institute of Public Administration had written down that the dismissal of members was illegal. At that time, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out that the reasons for their dismissal could not be classified as grounds for the termination of the term of office of members and that the early termination of the term of office of the members of the Supervisory Board of Radio Television of Slovenia was permissible only within the legal framework of certain constitutionally permissible explanations for the termination of the term of office and that the reason for their assessment was not consistent. The discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board would therefore be possible only if the amendments to the Radio Television Act of Slovenia were adopted to determine the discharge procedures. This coalition did not use this route, even though it was absolutely used for a number of laws in the National Assembly. And if we did, of course, Mr. Tanko, that would be legal. And you didn't. In Positive Slovenia, for these reasons, we have long wondered whether we should even propose our candidate or candidate for appointment to the new composition of the Supervisory Board. Last but not least, this proposal could legitimize the illegal conduct of the ruling coalition. Mr. Tonin, I hope you will listen to me, for I give you reasons. We would point out, however, that in this case we are faced with the fact that the public institution is of particular cultural and national importance, which performs public service in the field of radio and television activities with the aim of providing democratic social and cultural needs, and that it is under the applicable law the responsibility of the founder to ensure the institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the Radio Television of Slovenia and to provide adequate funding for the performance of the service. That's what this is about, Mr. Tanko, and nothing else. I would also point out that, until the Supervisory Board is set up in charge that it can carry out its tasks, it is not possible to ensure the normal financing of this public service, as the Council adopts a financial plan. In addition, the current legislation stipulates that the National Assembly appoints five members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly, so in Positive Slovenia we will act responsibly and propose to the Supervisory Board a candidate whom we believe will best represent the public interest in the management of the function. And that's what we did. However, this does not mean that this can be an excuse for the coalition, for their unlawful act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u262	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling RTV Slovenia a member of the Supervisory Board. Marta Kos Marco and Drago Zadargal. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We also have a notice from the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the imposition of criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivan Vogrin. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. It was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which reported to the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, relating to the notification of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Section, of 16. Ten. 2012 on the introduction of criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly of Magi. As a result of the suspicion of the service of 19 offences of business fraud under Article 228(1) relating to Article 54 of the Penal Code, Ivan Vogrin does not recognise the immunity of a member of the National Assembly of Magi. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for this Decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Ljubljana on the proposed indictment against Member Dragutin Matej. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana for consideration by the National Assembly. It was also considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body and also reported in writing to the National Assembly. We will decide on the proposal for the following decision: National Assembly on the basis of Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members on the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, No. III K 21643/2010, of 16. Ten. 2012 on the motion lodged against Mr Dragutin Mate, Member of the National Assembly, for the suspicion of a crime of abuse of official status or of official rights under Article 261(1) and (2) concerning Article 25 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of a member of the National Assembly, Dragutin Mate, and allows the conduct of criminal proceedings. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] The conclusion that immunity is not recognised is accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
