ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. We begin or continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on foreign exchange transactions after a reduced procedure. Before you begin your consideration, my fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, would like to inform you that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Polonca Komar, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr. Just Bevk of 12. 30 hours from now and Mr Matjaž Zanoskar. I would like to say hello to all those present once again. As has already been said, we are continuing with the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, on the 4th item of the agenda. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on foreign exchange transactions following a reduced procedure was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dejan Krušč, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u2	Good morning. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to briefly present the purpose and content of the proposal. There is no legal basis in the law currently in force for handling seized cash or for its transfer to the budget. It's a matter of cases where you can't get that cash back. The relevant cash held in the special purpose accounts may remain in those accounts even after the period when repayments due to the limitation of the right are no longer allowed. The amount of these funds currently amounts to approximately EUR 2 million. The proposed amendment defines the jurisdiction and manner of handling in these cases and regulates the application of the rules concerning the period of limitation of the right to reimbursement. Furthermore, this proposal also amends the provisions on persons engaged in exchange transactions. These provisions will provide Banka Slovenije with more effective supervision. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia will issue permits for the conduct of exchange transactions or will not issue them if the conditions are not met. These provisions will provide Banka Slovenije with more effective supervision and, in particular, in the event of non-compliance with the legal conditions, simplify the procedure for the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions. Respected and respected! The Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed text of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Committee of Mrs Patrice Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u4	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 39th urgent session. This year, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments, namely Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 10 of the draft law. The Committee was also informed of the following material: proposals for amendments to the Committee, coalition groups of 29 11. 2012 to Articles 3, 4, and 8. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the shortcomings of the current Foreign Exchange Act and the main solutions brought by the novelties. He said that, in the current foreign exchange law, there is no legal basis for handling seized cash or for its transfer to the budget in the event that this cash cannot be returned. The amount of such funds currently amounts to approximately EUR 2 million. The main solutions brought by the amendment of the law are the definition of jurisdiction, the manner in which it is handled in this case and the regulation of the application of the rules concerning the limitation period of the right to reimbursement. In addition, the proposal for a law amends the provisions concerning persons engaged in the activities of exchange offices. The provisions of the novelty will allow the Bank of Slovenia to exercise greater control in the event of non-compliance with the legal conditions and simplify the procedure for the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions. Finally, the Secretary of State said that the Government for the amendments tabled had no comments and supported them. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service in its written opinion had pointed out the need for some clearer and more specific definitions and that a more detailed sub-legislative framework should be laid down in the law. In the debate, one of the members of the opposition's parliamentary group explained that they had no comments on the bill. He then made two proposals concerning the supervisory authority of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which had submitted a proposal for an invitation to tender for a new body to succeed the Customs Authority, and had also submitted a proposal concerning the new paragraph 14 of Article 14 concerning the establishment of a specific deadline in law and reference. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4 and 8 of the draft law in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 5, 6 and 10 of the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, SLS and New Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. What a lovely greeting, dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we committed ourselves in our programme to ensuring the smooth functioning of the rule of law and its supervisory institutions. The first prerequisite for the functioning of the rule of law is appropriate and internally consistent legislation. Such legislation allows for the consistent implementation of the principle of legality as the basic legal principle of the internal legal order. The principle of legality is defined in Article 135 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This provides that all individual acts and acts of public authorities, authorities of self-government local communities and holders of public powers must be based on law or legal regulation. The current Foreign Exchange Act does not constitute a legal basis for the handling of seized cash in cases where the right to repay seized cash has lapsed, as well as in some other cases, for example when the beneficiary is a foreign national, but does not provide a return account number. Such cash seized shall also be kept in special dedicated accounts after the expiry of the limitation period, when it is not possible to make repayments due to the arrears. Such funds are now in the special dedicated accounts of around EUR 2 million. These funds must be transferred to the State budget, but an appropriate legal basis must be provided in advance, which is the subject of the amendment to the Foreign Exchange Act. The amendment of this law also eliminates legal gaps in existing legislation relating to the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia in the field of exchange transactions. Banka Slovenije does not issue a permit to carry out exchange transactions unless the conditions laid down by Banka Slovenije are met in the sub-legislative acts. A set of cases of termination of the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions is also specified. This is the case if the gearbox does not start operating within three months of the authorisation, if the gearbox ceases to operate for more than one year, if the gearbox ceases to exist due to the status changes or if the gearbox is subject to insolvency or forced termination proceedings. In the New Slovenia Group we announce support for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State! Amendments to the law to the Slovenian legal order introduce the legal basis for handling seized cash after an expiry date and when it is no longer possible to return it. It shall also determine the powers and manner of action in such cases. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that these changes are meaningful and necessary because they contribute to the effective and clear functioning of the country. The amendments to the law, which clearly define the procedures for the supervision of Banka Slovenije in the conduct of exchange transactions, are consistent with the objectives of the law, namely the elimination of legal voids in relation to the powers of Banka Slovenije as a supervisor in the field of exchange transactions. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the bill. In the end, allow me another evil remark. In view of the intention of bringing together the tax and customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia, we can also think of a name that will be new. Maybe as a suggestion. Office of the Republic of Slovenia DAVCAR or DACAR.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A colleague and a colleague! There are changes to the law that are not disputed in any way. They are only positive, co-ordinated and also bring greater control of Banka Slovenije over exchange transactions, especially in the part where the business of a exchange office is terminated. Last but not least, this law brings another positive change, and that is the need for an additional EUR 2 million for our seized cash budget, which now, I will say, has no place, and now there is a legal basis for these funds to be transferred to the budget. We will therefore support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats and Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u12	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. The basic objective of the bill is to regulate legally the area of the recovery of seized cash into the state budget in the event that the right to repay is obsolete. The Foreign Exchange Act-2 regulates the seizure of undeclared cash and its withdrawal in the event that appropriate evidence of the origin of cash is not included in the proceedings. However, it does not regulate the handling of seized cash which is not seized in the offence proceedings and the recovery of the seized cash cannot be made. In addition, the proposed amendments and additions eliminate legal voids in relation to the powers of the Bank of Slovenia as supervisor in the field of exchange transactions. The main solutions brought by the law are the following. The assets in respect of which another supervisory authority has decided before the withdrawal of the power of the customs authority and the right to recover funds has expired shall be transferred to the State budget within eight days of the application of the law. In the event that the recovery of the seized cash cannot be effected or the refund right is obsolete, the cash revenue of the State budget is seized. Banka Slovenije does not issue a permit for the management of exchange transactions unless the conditions for carrying out such transactions are met in accordance with the sub-legislative acts issued by Banka Slovenije. The authorisation to carry out exchange transactions shall cease if the exchanger does not enter into operation within three months of the issue of the licence, if the exchanger ceases to operate for more than a year and if the exchanger ceases to exist. The provisions of the law governing banking shall apply mutatis mutandis to the procedures for deciding on individual matters and the implementation of the law under this Act. A criminal provision has been added when a person carries out exchange transactions without the permission of the Bank of Slovenia. In view of the urgency of adopting the proposed solutions, the SD Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u14	Nice hello to you all! Members of the National Gazette will also support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. It is right to make a legal basis for the money that lies unexploited and cannot be returned to the budget because it is empty. And it is right to change certain things that provide greater transparency over the operation of exchange offices than the central bank has proposed. Once again, the members of the National List will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u16	Good day to you all! Your Honor! The novel merely corrects a law that proves that there is no legal basis for handling cash seized. Not only can we transfer certain funds to the budget, because they are now sitting on one of the accounts, but we can also fix this problem in the future. From now on, when the recovery of seized cash which has not been recovered in the infringement procedure is not possible or the right to repay has already expired, the cash seized will become the revenue of the state budget. A legal void in the area of the competence of the Bank of Slovenia has also been regulated, namely in the field of the conduct of exchange transactions, also with regard to the withdrawal or termination of business permits. The Bank of Slovenia will also formally exercise control in this area and the law governing banking will apply to exchangers. We have no comments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the marriage novel has our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u18	Good day to you all! In the current Foreign Exchange Act, there is no legal basis for handling seized cash or its transfer to the budget, in the event that it is no longer possible to return cash. The amount of such funds currently amounts to about two million euros. The main solutions brought by the amendment of the law are the definition of the jurisdiction and the manner in which it is handled in this case and the arrangements for the application of the rules concerning the limitation period of the right to reimbursement. In addition, the proposal for a law amends the provisions concerning persons engaged in the activities of exchange offices. The provisions of the novelty will allow the Bank of Slovenia to exercise greater control in the event of non-compliance with the legal conditions and simplify the procedure for the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions. This will give our budget €2 million, and therefore we support the proposal of the new law in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Court of Auditors after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dejdan Krusc, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you. Respected and respected! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Auditors was referred by the Government. Allow me to briefly present the reasons for the proposed changes. The draft law is based on the recommendation of the National Assembly adopted when adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members. It was then recommended that the Government prepare proposals for legislative amendments and harmonise legislation governing remuneration rights after the end of the term of office for officials. The proposed amendment thus follows the objective of equality of rights and obligations between the comparable highest officials of the various branches of government and thus follows the objective of the cost-effectiveness of public finances. On this basis, by amending the laws governing the rights of officials, the Government has reduced the rights to which they belong after the end of their term of office. For this reason, the Law on the Court of Auditors is amended in part to regulate the rights of the members of the Court of Auditors after the end of office. A member of the Court of Auditors who has ceased to function and cannot, for objective reasons, continue to perform his previous duties or obtain other appropriate employment shall have the right to compensation for his salary following this proposal until he or she has been employed or has begun to engage in gainful activities. The proposed amendments to the law reduce this right by reducing the amount of remuneration after the end of the mandate from 100 % to 80 %, reducing the time of remuneration from one year to nine months, reducing the possibility of extending the entitlement from one year to six months if the conditions for retirement are met, introducing the termination of the remuneration if the member ceases before the end of one year, requiring the termination of the entitlement to receive the remuneration if the member is employed before the end of the period for which he or she is entitled to such remuneration, and introducing certain criminal provisions in the event of a violation of the right. The proposed amendment reduces, in terms of systemic equality and rational use of budgetary resources, the legal entitlements so far in respect of compensations to members of the Court of Auditors who have ceased to function. Respected and respected! The Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Committee of Mrs Patrice Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u22	Madam President, thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 40th emergency meeting. On 12 this year, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Auditors, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure, was approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 35th meeting on 27 November this year. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system, in a legislative technical review. The legislative and legal service, from a legal point of view, notes that, in view of the interrelationship of certain legislative proposals in the legislative process, the proposed rights after the termination of each function must be justified in relation to the rights which the proposed or already adopted laws lay down for other officials. It further made specific comments on Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal. Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Minister of Finance with representatives from the Finance Ministry, the representative and the representative of the Court of Auditors and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister of Finance explained to the Committee that the draft law follows the objective of equality of rights and obligations between the comparable highest public officials in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, when adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members, the National Assembly adopted a recommendation on the appropriate adaptation of the other laws governing certain specific rights of officials, including the text in question. In this context, the text submitted during the main solutions introduces a reduction in the amount of compensation after the end of the term of office from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received by a member of the Court of Auditors when he was in office, a reduction in the amount of compensation to 9 months from the end of the term of office, the possibility of extending the right to payment to the fulfilment of the conditions of retirement, but for a maximum period of 6 months, the suspension of the remuneration if the member of the Court of Auditors ceases before the end of one year of appointment in the National Assembly and the termination of the right to receive the remuneration without a reduction if the member who ceased his or her post ends the period for which he or her salary is due starts to exercise a gainful activity or fulfils the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old person's pension without a reduction. The main amendments to the Court of Auditors Act are therefore in line with the amendments adopted by the National Assembly with regard to Members and officials directly linked to them. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed in her presentation that the specific comments contained in the written opinion on the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups were fully taken into account. The Committee did not discuss the new solutions at the time of its consideration of the individual articles. Following consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Committee voted jointly and adopted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Here you are, Mrs Renata Brunskole, on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that I will use this time to present my position on the four proposals for laws that we are adopting today at the meeting of the National Assembly on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Auditors, on the Constitutional Court, on the Ombudsman and on the Law on Officials in State Authorities. All four draft laws provide a common reason for their amendment. This year's amendment to the Law on Members, which aimed at rationalising the use of Members' budgetary resources, which ended their mandate, to limit the payment of monetary compensation or to amend certain rights with a view to ensuring equality between officials in the Republic of Slovenia in the area of remuneration and other remuneration. Applicants shall amend these rights in a way that takes account of the solutions in the Law on Members. However, as an additional reason for such a change, the applicants also state the social solidarity of all officials who have ceased to function. The draft laws were in line with the representatives of the institutions concerned. Of course, no one opposed the changes probably because no one wants to be the target of negative messages to the public. However, in this place Members and Members of Positive Slovenia would like to point out that in the relevant cases it is not their personal position to bear the name and surname, but rather the reputation of democratic institutions in the country. It is how much we as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia respect the highest functions of individual democratic institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the President of the Republic of Slovenia. And who else would want to point out their reputation and integrity for the acquisition of these functions, if we do not in the first place exercise proper respect for the function itself, and then also for the individual in their respective functions. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we will abstain from voting because we do not want to, we really do not want to devalue these functions in society because of populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Here you are, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u26	Madam President, thank you for your word. I warmly welcome the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance and all colleagues, Members and Members! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Auditors provides for a new regulation of the rights of members of the Court of Auditors after the termination of their functions, as well as in the package of the other four laws governing the rights of officials, the Law on Officials in State Authorities, the Law on the Constitutional Court, the Law on the Ombudsman and also the Law on the Court of Auditors, which I am referring to. The main solutions to the amendment and the addition of the Law on the Court of Auditors relate to the three main solutions already listed several times. Let me repeat, therefore, the reduction in the amount of the refund after the end of the mandate from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received by a member of the Court of Auditors when he was in office, to a reduction in the time taken to receive the refund from one year to 9 months from the end of the mandate and to the possibility of extending the right to compensation from one year to 6 months until the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement. The law also provides for the introduction of certain criminal provisions. The bill pursues the objective of equality of rights and obligations between the comparable highest government officials in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also pursues the objective of social solidarity as part of the constitutional principle of the social state. The draft law also pursues the objective of prudential and transparent spending of public finances. There's no such thing as a populism law. In view of the legislation proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u28	Dear President, representatives of the Government, ministries, colleagues and colleagues! For years, it has been thinking about the need to overwind and reduce individual rights belonging to officials, as well as to political parties. In June of this year, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to the Law on Members, when these opinions also took effect. By 56 votes to none, we have adopted solutions which reduce the Member's right to compensation after the end of the term of office. We are aware that there is a need to limit public spending, which requires a poor financial state of the country. It's logical that we went to the limits first. However, the rights of the highest state authorities must be in a reasonable proportion to the rights granted by the State to other citizens. At the time of the adoption of these amendments, some Members have pointed out the negative consequences of these changes, which are intended to assess the status of the Member and further undermine the reputation of politicians or institutions. Maybe he even holds it in part. However, we believe in the National Charter that the status and reputation of politicians are mainly influenced by our words and actions, not by social ratings and material rights. At the time of the adoption of this amendment, the Council of Ministers also adopted recommendations to the Government to follow these changes and to adopt similar solutions for other public administration officials. The government has done so and today we are discussing the whole package of these laws. The proposed amendments to the Court of Auditors reduce the amount of remuneration after the end of the term of office by 20%, which is the same as what we have done with Members. The period of receipt of the refund shall be reduced from one year to nine months, which is slightly longer than that of Members, but shall be extended by the members of the Court of Auditors for 9 years. Control mechanisms for the prevention of abuse are also being set up. And all these changes are also consistent with the Court of Auditors, which is not irrelevant. In the Citizens' List, we are convinced that in times of financial and economic crisis, we must take part in the burden of those who have special rights to terminate the management of the function, so we will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, all the others, once again a good day! In the amendment under consideration, we are merely equalising the rights that we have already adopted for some other officials. If we've already gone to lowering our fees, it's only right to arrange this systemically. In this light, there is also a proposal to regulate such rights governing remuneration and other revenue for officials in a single law. Thus, in the event of any intervention in this matter, a whole series of individual laws should not be amended. And since it is precisely the Court of Auditors, it may also be worth mentioning that, according to the Slovenian People's Party, it is an extremely professional function that requires a lot of work experience in addition to expertise. The importance of this court as the supervisory authority of State spending is probably not to be highlighted in particular. In the case of the Court of Auditors, if a Member cannot be trained professionally, the matter is quite clear. The function requires special knowledge. By politicising the payment systems of officials in areas requiring high professional competence from a specialised area, only one will happen to us so that there will be less and less interest in such responsible functions between highly qualified staff, resulting in less professional work and resulting in less supervision. Of course, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support this law on the basis of a preliminary agreement on the reduction of all compensation in the light of savings and positive examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u32	Once again, hello to all present! In June this year, Members and Members of Parliament adopted amendments to the provisions of the Law on Members relating to Members' rights after the end of their term of office. In the first place, these changes relate to the time and amount of the remuneration received. Thus, we have concluded that the time of receipt will be reduced to 6 months and the amount of the refund will be reduced to 80% of the last salary. In the course of this debate, the coalition and the opposition have demonstrated that other laws governing certain specific rights of officials should be adopted in a meaningful manner. Thus, on the basis of the decision of the Mandate-Election Commission, the Government has drafted the text of a package of amendments to the five laws governing the right to compensation after the end of its term of office. One of these laws is the Law on the Court of Auditors. The main changes to this novel are meaningfully followed by the arrangements resulting from the Law on Members, so I would not repeat them here. At this point, however, I would like to point out that the whole package of these laws, which are the subject of today's treatment and which are linked to these refunds, including the law governing the rights of the representative of the Court of Auditors, is based on elements, for the first time, that the rights of the functionaries must be socially acceptable, that the scope of the rights of the functionaries in the global must by no means exceed the current situation, that rights must be proportionate to the length of the mandates and limitations on the basis of the non-compatibilities, that the rights of the officials must be in support of the credibility of the functionaries themselves or of the institutions themselves, whose officials are that the rights of the officials must be clearly defined and equal to all and that they must be stimulate the functionaries in order to be activated as soon as possible after the end of their term of office. This is said to be a successful return to their working environment, to their working relationship or to their professional or entrepreneurial activities. All of this is properly included in both the text of this package and the other novelties of this package, according to the DeSUS Group's assessment, and we will therefore contribute our votes to their adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In Novi Slovenije, we committed ourselves to rationalising and reducing the costs of public administration. The amendment of the Law on the Court of Auditors follows the objective set out in our programme. It reduces the budgetary expenditure for compensation to members of the Court of Auditors after the end of their term of office. The amount of the refund shall be reduced after the end of the mandate from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received by a member of the Court of Auditors when performing his duties. The period of receipt of the refund shall be reduced from 12 months to nine months from the end of the term of office. The duration of the extension of the entitlement to compensation shall be reduced until the conditions for retirement from the previous 12 months have been met. The right to compensation shall be revoked if the member of the Court of Auditors ceases to function before the expiry of one year of the mandate. The refund shall be reduced for the amount of the remuneration paid for the performance of the work at the time of receipt of the refund. The right to receive remuneration shall cease if a member, before the end of the period for which the remuneration is due to him or her, is engaged in a gainful activity or meets the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension without reduction. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Auditors shall harmonise the compensation for members of the Court of Auditors with the compensation of Members, as laid down in the last amendment to the Law on Members. We are grateful that the members of the Court of Auditors have accepted this amendment, this change, this reduction of rights in fact through understanding. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions relates in particular to amendments that have been coordinated or comply with the amendment of the Law on the Supplementation of the Penal Code and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, in particular with regard to the execution of a prison sentence at the end of the week, the enforcement of a house sentence, the replacement of a financial penalty with work for general benefit, the enforcement of a security measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment and protection in the institution and at home, and the detention of a convicted person before a competent court or competent state prosecutor for the purpose of carrying out a pre-trial or criminal procedure. The provisions relating to the personal data of convicts or to their processing for the purpose of complying with sectoral legislation and ensuring the accuracy and up-to-date of convictions shall be amended and supplemented. The implementation of two new safety measures, compulsory psychiatric treatment and health care, and compulsory psychiatric treatment on the loose are introduced in particular within the meaning of the provisions laying down specific expertise and safety conditions in the context of the implementation of the measure carried out at the Maribor Forensic Centre. In order to ensure the enforcement of the new provisions on imprisonment at the end of the week and the enforcement of a conditional conviction or conditional release by protective supervision, a new criminal provision shall be governed and an additional criminal authority shall be established. This novelty also removes the legal void in the area of conditional discharge from house arrest and discharge from house detention. Accommodation shall be arranged in premises with a stricter regime primarily for those closed persons who are problematic. The enforcement of by-law penalties which the court may impose on a legal person is also regulated, namely the prohibition of the management of securities of which the legal person is a legal person and the penalties imposed otherwise in the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Offences. Let me also say that the amendment of the law also adds an organisational form of economic activity to the administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions that can be established or recast in accordance with the law governing public private partnership and institutions and public-economic services. So much at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, the Secretary of State! At its 7th meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly then decided at its 29th regular meeting that the draft law should in fact be examined following a reduced procedure. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, said in his supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposal for a law meant first-hand compliance with different laws. The proposed novel, however, mainly brings the following solutions. At the end of the week, what's called a weekend prison. Arrangements for house imprisonment and conditional and regular discharge from house arrest. Arrangements for conditional leave with protective supervision, the possibility of replacing a financial penalty with work with a general benefit, arrangements for the enforcement of mandatory psychiatric treatment and health care measures and compulsory psychiatric treatment on the loose. The law itself or the amendment of the law also regulates the provision of a foreign penalty for convicted legal persons, etc. Ms Špela Macek Gustin, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, presented the comments from their written opinion and said that they were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled. The representative of the Council of State, Mr Bogomir Vnučec, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which also supports the proposed amendment. The Committee was also informed of the positive written opinion of the Court of Justice. The members and members of the committee then supported the proposed law in the discussion as a whole, and the opposition Member expressed opposition to its treatment following a reduced procedure and warned that the social work centres were already running out of resources for the general benefit of the work. Members also raised a question as to the need to set up a probation service and to bring a convicted person into the institution in the event of no house imprisonment. The representative of the proposer explained below that the proposed law means compliance with other laws and that the proposed hearing after a reduced procedure was confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. He also said that Slovenia was the only Member State of the European Union that had not yet established a probation service to which different authorities were now carrying out tasks and explained that the court which pronounced the sentence was not the same as the court which called on the convict to pass the sentence. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 26, 27, 28, 30, 42, 43, 45 and 48 and to Article 43 of the Social Democrats' Group, as well as its amendment to Article 31, which was editorial in nature. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u39	The colleague Eva Irgl will remain at the speaker's desk and will now present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much once again for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The draft law, as I have already said in the report of the Committee, means first compliance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and also harmonisation with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes and, of course, certain other laws which are primarily applicable to the Health and Health Insurance Act and to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which will be further supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the voting process, provides, above all, a key solution, namely, the end-of-week prison system, the so-called weekend prison, and the home prison system, then the replacement of a financial penalty with work for the general benefit, the law also regulates the enforcement of mandatory psychiatric and health-care measures and compulsory psychiatric treatment in prison, also regulates amendments to certain provisions relating to the personal data of convicts, the provision of conditional leave with protective supervision and so on. If I limit myself to the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, first of all to the key solution that the law brings, this is the prison system at the end of the week. The execution of a sentence in the form of a so-called weekend of imprisonment shall be permitted, in accordance with the amended Article 12 of the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions, to a convicted person who is employed or has a student status and who has regular schooling or student status and who regularly fulfils his or her obligations. Of course, it is necessary to know here that he can be trusted, and then there can be such a way of going through a prison sentence. The procedure and consequences shall also be regulated if the convicted person misuses the way in which the sentence is suspended at the end of the week. I have already mentioned in the introduction the enforcement of house imprisonment, which is governed by the amendment of Article 12a of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the content of a judgment or a special decision allowing the court to execute the sentence of house imprisonment and order or modifying the manner in which it is carried out. It is also the duty of the court to forward that judgment or decision to the institution for the termination of a sentence in which the sentenced person would otherwise be posted and to the police station in which the house prison is carried out and also the supervision of the execution of the house prison carried out by the court alone or through the police. A major change that has not been regulated so far is also conditional discharge from house arrest and regular discharge from house imprisonment. This issue, as has already been said, has not been settled so far, there has been a legal void. The second solution, which is also important, is to replace the fine with work in general favour. That's new, too. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions has so far regulated in Article 13 only the replacement of the prison sentence by work for the general benefit, but not by the replacement of the financial penalty by work for the general benefit. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will continue to support the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u41	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u42	Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is a comprehensive law. It affects the 48 articles and constitutes compliance with the amendment of the Penal Code and the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act in force since May of this year. The drafting of the Law also took into account the warnings of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry of Justice and also the Office for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The amendment regulates the execution of a prison at the end of the week, the so-called weekend of imprisonment, the execution of a house prison, the replacement of a financial penalty by work for general benefit, the enforcement of the security measures of compulsory psychiatric treatment and protection in the institution and in the institution and at large, and the detention of convicts before a competent court or the competent state prosecutor for carrying out a pre-trial or criminal procedure. The provisions relating to the personal data of convicts or to their processing shall be amended and supplemented, including in order to comply with the sectoral legislation and to ensure the accuracy and up-to-date of such data. The new regulation is the implementation of two security measures: mandatory psychiatric treatment and protection in the healthcare institution and compulsory psychiatric treatment on the loose, in particular within the meaning of the provisions governing an already functioning psychiatric and forensic centre operating within the University Clinical Centre in Maribor. It also removes the legal void in the field of conditional release and house imprisonment and discharge from house imprisonment. In the Social Democrats' Group, we have prepared an amendment to Article 43 for the second reading on the home labour body, namely to delete the probing service referred to in Article 43. With regard to the introduction of the probation service, we have already had doubts when we consider the motion for a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2012-2016. Our concerns were also confirmed by a representative and expert from the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law. In the debate, this pointed out that it is more appropriate to intensify existing cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the resolution of criminal sanctions. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its broad opinion on Article 43 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, drew attention to the inappropriate regulation of this matter in transitional decisions. The Probation Service will not start until it is – if it is established. This issue, however, must be addressed primarily by those who are professionally involved in and research into this area. We have assessed that the reduced procedure for examining the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is inadequate and the placement of the probation service in transitional provisions without adequate prior professional discussion is inappropriate. An amendment was adopted on the committee, which deletes the probation service from this law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u43	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u44	Have a nice hello again. In May of this year, amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act have been put into effect, which consequently require compliance with the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act. This amendment harmonises the provisions governing the execution of the prison at the end of the week and the house jail, the replacement of the financial penalty by work with the general benefit, the enforcement of the protective measures of compulsory psychiatric treatment of the convicted person, and the bringing of the convicted person to the competent court or the prosecution for carrying out the pre-trial or criminal proceedings. A legal void in the area of conditional release and discharge from house imprisonment shall also be removed. For the Citizens' List, the solutions governing the so-called weekend prison and the replacement of the financial penalty by work are particularly important. The 2011 annual report of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions shows that 60 convicts were in prison during 2011. All 60 of them were regularly employed and did not break the employment relationship and none of them were educated. Maintaining employment during the sentence period enabled them to maintain their basic material existence and social security. Article 12 amended thus allows for the execution of a prison sentence in the form of a weekend, also for a convict who has the status of a student and who regularly attends school or fulfils his obligations, provided that he can, of course, be trusted that he will not abuse this method of imprisonment. This is a solution that is both in the interests of the convict, as it continues with its regular obligations and normal life, as well as for a country that has major problems with prison overcrowding. Slovenian legislation already allows some alternative prison sentences, such as work in general benefit, weekends or house jails, but these are under-applicable if we take into account the fact that almost a third of convicts in Slovenia are sentenced to less than 2 years in prison. The amendment also makes sense to regulate the procedure and consequences if the convicted person misuses this way of passing the sentence. In the Civil Gazette, we also welcome the solutions relating to the replacement of the fine by work for the general benefit. The provisions of the Penal Code already allow the perpetrator of a criminal offence sentenced to up to 2 years in prison, except for the offence of sexual inviolability, to do work in general favour instead of paying a fine. The current provisions of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, however, make it possible to work in general only for the purpose of replacing prison sentences, but not for the financial penalty, which brings, among other things, this novelty. The solutions brought by this novel are an update and approximation of legislation in this area, with solutions that they also know in other European countries, and we will therefore support this amendment in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u45	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u46	Mr President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. We have already pointed out many times the issue of the judiciary or the issue of the judicial proceedings themselves, which are overturned into a farce: whether it gets stuck in police and forecasting proceedings, or in the prosecution and gathering of evidence, or in the trial itself. We're all fed up with such procedures when chicken thieves are being punished, and real crooks and criminals are walking to freedom. Thus, there are still some gaps, gaps that allow or enable such situations in existing legislation, and we believe that such legislation needs to be harmonised and reformed as soon as possible. The reform of justice is already under preparation and we believe it is being prepared by experts who know the shortcomings of the current system. One of the shortcomings is the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which is not in line with the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons. The Penal Code provides for one thing, and the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act does not define certain sanctions in more detail, and that is precisely what corrects the proposal we have before us. At the end of the week, prison arrangements, conditional leave arrangements, the possibility of replacing the financial penalty with work with a general benefit, the arrangements for the enforcement of the security measures of compulsory psychiatric treatment and, last but not least, the foreign penalty for legally convicted legal persons in the form of a ban on the availability of securities, and we believe that the prohibition on the availability of such or other assets should be otherwise regulated. We suggest that, in the context of the upcoming reform, the judiciary consider examples from abroad when a person is seized or prevented from having possession of property much, much earlier, practically at the start of the persecution itself. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions are necessary to improve the entire system of enforcement of punishment, so we will also support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u47	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well-welcome Secretary of State with a co-worker and, of course, Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions shall comply with the law of the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes and the Law on Offences. An essential part of the amendments and additions to the current law relate to the security measures of compulsory psychiatric treatment at the end of the week and to the execution of the prison at the end of the week, the execution of the sentence of house arrest and the execution of the financial penalty by work in general benefit. The proposal deals more precisely with the execution of sentences and fines in other ways determined by the court. The draft law sets out the obligation to publish a list of health care establishments that carry out mandatory psychiatric treatment and health care measures and compulsory psychiatric treatment on the loose in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Special professional and safety conditions are also laid down to be met by such establishments. Information on the implementation and success of treatment by the healthcare institution is also being regulated within the legal time limit. I will also refer to Article 82a, which regulates the bringing of a convicted person to a competent court or to the competent state prosecutor's office, if necessary for the purpose of carrying out a pre-trial or criminal procedure. In order to implement the imposition of a convicted person for this purpose, the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions has so far not had an appropriate provision. The draft law also complements the criminal provisions with two infringements in connection with the execution of a prison at the end of the week and with a conditional sentence or conditional leave with protective supervision and provides for supervisory authorities to supervise the implementation of those provisions. For this reason, we will support the amendments and amendments to the law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u49	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions are needed primarily to harmonise the provisions of this Act with amendments to the Penal Code, to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure and to amend the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Offences which have been adopted in the previous year. The changes affect the manner in which prison sentences are executed at the end of the week and at the end of the house jail. The new law provides in which cases a prison sentence may be imposed by the said alternative forms of freedom of punishment. It can only be expressed to persons who have a regulated employment status or have the status of a student or student who regularly carries out study obligations. At the same time, the person must be so personally regulated that he can be trusted and he will not abuse the alternative form of the penalty imposed. Thus, in the context of individualisation of criminal sanctions, the court will decide whether such a means of execution of a free penalty is the object of punishment if it is known of the individual accused. This is general and special prevention and resocialisation of the perpetrator. In Nova Slovenija, we expect the courts to say alternative forms of prison sentences more frequently from now on. They are more favourable for the convict, as he retains the possibility of working and contacting his family and remains involved in the social network. They are also more acceptable from a public financial point of view. We have been reading in the annual report of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions for several years now to deal with the problem of overcrowding of Slovenian prisons. More than half of the prisoners were held free, which was less than two years. The cost of the day provided for last year amounted to €83 per prisoner. Assuming that half of them could end up in the form of either a weekend in prison or a house prison, this would mean a reduction in budgetary expenditure for these purposes for a few million a year. We also support other solutions brought by the above - mentioned novelties of the law, thus eliminating many legal voids. However, the shortcomings raised by the judiciary and other bodies in the implementation of the provisions of this Act have also been addressed. Members of the New Slovenia Group therefore announce support for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u51	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia – this is also the last presentation of the position – Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! As already stated in previous presentations, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the Enforcement of Procedural Sanctions is aligned with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Since a specific law has not been adopted to regulate compulsory psychiatric treatment for non-appropriate and significantly reduced offenders, two safety measures must be regulated in the new KZ-1B: mandatory psychiatric treatment and health care and compulsory psychiatric treatment. Therefore, as it is said, the provisions of this law are being amended and complemented. Since the draft law follows in particular the regulation, which means the consistency of the current regulatory regime in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law by Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia. The more reason for its support is that the coalition has taken into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and has taken the view that the preliminary decision, which, at the Ministry of Justice as the drafters of the law, sought to regulate the situation of supervision of the enforcement of house arrest when the law governing the establishment and implementation of the probation service was not adopted, is inappropriate in terms of the clarity and predictability of the legal regime. We also join this position in Positive Slovenia. The Ombudsman and the Ministry of the Interior have pointed out the inadequacy of the regime under which police control over the execution of house arrest is carried out. That rule should not be in line with the basic tasks of the police nor is such an arrangement appropriate from a legal, professional and penological point of view. In Positive Slovenia, however, we believe that regulating this problem with a transitional provision would be unacceptable, so it would be more appropriate to adopt a law on the probation service first, and then to transfer this task to the police. We also ask ourselves in our parliamentary group, as do many experts, whether it makes sense to set up a new service, which is already being carried out by the competent social work centres. This issue was extensively discussed by a great expert, Dr Dragan Petrovec, who stressed in his debate that the new regime is also questionable from the point of view of the related costs. Among other things, he stressed that there is a pattern as a special service to facilitate the resocialisation of convicts in many countries of the European Union, but that this is not a weakness for Slovenia, since Slovenia has had decisive experience with the so-called post-service services since the beginning of the 1980s. Dr Petrovec believes that instead of a new service, which means the expansion of state bureaucracy, it is necessary to establish an already tested system and good cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This is also the position we join in Positive Slovenia. Nevertheless, as we say, Members and Members of Positive Slovenia will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u53	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We do not have any amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill today in the context of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the law on the amendments to the law on administrative dispute. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Say good-bye again! The proposal for a law on amendments to the Administrative Dispute Act is prepared on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. In that decision of the Constitutional Court, the Court found that the Law on Administrative Disputes with the Constitution did not comply and provided that the National Assembly should remove the finding of non-compliance within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. The finding of non-compliance with the Administrative Dispute Act is that in certain cases the current regulation does not make available to the applicant any action to reach a judicial assessment of the legality of a given administrative act, that is to say, the choice of the right to judicial protection and is therefore inconsistent with the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution. The Administrative Dispute Act-1B proposes, on the basis of that decision of the Constitutional Court, the introduction of a so-called finding action that would require the finding of the illegality of the administrative act by which it was applied to the defendant's rights or legal benefits. A finding of action will be brought under the same conditions and for the same reasons as the law provides for the lodging of an action requiring the abolition of an administrative act, except that the application will not be submitted for the abolition of an administrative act, but a finding of its illegality. If the court finds that the finding is substantiated, the judgment will establish that the administrative act is illegal. If the applicant makes a claim for damages, the Administrative Court will be able to decide on it or refer the defendant to justice in accordance with the law. A complaint will not be allowed against the finding of the Administrative Court, but a review or renewal of the procedure laid down by law, which is already based on the regulation in force and which is not specifically regulated in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u55	The bill was addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Madam President Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! At its 7th meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Administrative Dispute submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure and was also published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur. At its 29th regular session, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Mr Helmut Hartman, representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, said in his supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendment meant compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, by which the Constitutional Court decided that the Administrative Dispute Act was inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the National Assembly should abolish the finding of non-compliance within one year of the publication of this decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed novelty introduces a so-called finding action requiring the determination of the illegality of the legal act by which the applicant was affected by his or her rights or legal benefits. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Ms Saša Bricelj Podgornik said that the comments made in the written opinion were taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. Mr Bogomir Vnučec, representative of the Council of State, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on national regulation, which also supports the proposed amendment. The Committee was also informed of the positive written opinion of the Court of Justice. The members and members of the committee expressed their support for the proposed law in a short debate and pointed out that the deadline set by the Constitutional Court would have expired. The Committee also adopted amendments to Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is included in the amendment. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u58	Your Honor! The proposer has drawn up a law with solutions following the Constitutional Court's decision, so we have no problem with the Social Democrats not adopting these additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you. That was short and brittle. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Katarina Hotch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u60	Nice greetings to all present! The Constitutional Court found that the Administrative Conflict Act was not in conformity with the Constitution and ordered that this should be abolished by 2 December 2012, which means that we are already a little late in eliminating the non-compliance. And what is the contradiction of the contentious provisions of the law? The law currently in force does not make available to the applicant any action that could result in a judicial review of the legality of the administrative act in an administrative dispute, provided that it has already been carried out and that it would not have been possible to achieve the establishment of the previous situation. Such inappropriate arrangements, however, mean two in practice. For an individual or a potential complainant, an unacceptable restriction of judicial protection, even though it is his constitutional right. For the public interest and the rule of law, there is an unacceptable restriction of judicial control over the legality of the administrative acts issued. The amendment of the Act amends two articles and adds a new 64.a. and thus introduces a so-called finding action requiring the determination of the illegality of the administrative act by which the applicant was affected by his rights and legal benefits. In practice, this means that an individual will be able to file an action, although the administrative act has already been carried out and its abolition is irrelevant. That's not possible until now. The Law on the Administrative Dispute in the Administrative Order of the Republic of Slovenia brings more transparency, fairness and better legal protection to our citizens, so Members and Members of the National Gazette will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u61	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. The applicable Administrative Dispute Act is inconsistent with the Constitution. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall remove the finding of non-compliance within one year of the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court. The decision was published on 10 November 2011. As set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court, the provision in the applicable law which does not make available to the debtor any claim for judicial review of the legality of the final administrative act actually deprives the debtor of the right to judicial protection. Such legal arrangements shall constitute the rights of judicial protection referred to in Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. The proposed amendment therefore regulates a so-called finding action requiring the determination of the illegality of the administrative act by which the applicant was affected by his or her rights or legal benefits. In that case, it was considered that the party did not wish to prohibit a public event and was then limited to judicial proceedings against an administrative decision only for the duration of a public event. This means that there is in fact no ex post judicial review of legality against the definitively authorised conduct of a public event. As soon as a finding is brought, the court will be able to find that the administrative act is illegal and will also favour a party which will request compensation for damage caused by an illegal administrative act. A complaint will not be allowed against the judgment and a review of the proceedings will be possible. In view of the fact that the law is not in conformity with the Constitution and that the amendment is also supported by the Council of Justice and that support has also been expressed on the Committee on Justice, we will also support the proposal to supplement the law on administrative dispute in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u63	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Mariana Kotnik Popotat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The solutions proposed are prepared in response to the Constitutional Court's finding that this court has decided that the Administrative Dispute Act is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the opinion of the Constitutional Judges in certain situations, the current legal regime does not allow for the effective exercise of the constitutional right to judicial protection, since, in a particular case, it does not make available to the applicant any action to obtain a judicial review of the legality of the administrative act issued. The novelty proposes the introduction of a so-called finding action that will make it possible to seek a finding of the illegality of the administrative act by which the applicant has been affected by his rights or legal benefits. A finding of action will be brought under the same conditions and for the same reasons as the law provides for the lodging of an action requiring the abolition of an administrative act, except that the application will not be submitted for the abolition of an administrative act, but rather for the determination of its illegality. In the present case, the applicant will have to demonstrate, inter alia, that the administrative act has affected his rights or administrative benefits and that, by bringing such an action, he is pursuing a certain legal advantage, otherwise the court will dismiss the action. If the court finds that the finding is substantiated, the judgment will establish that the legal act is illegal. A complaint will not be allowed against the finding of the Administrative Court, only the renewal of the procedure and the revision of the procedure under the conditions laid down by law will be possible. In its proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Council of Justice delivered a positive opinion. However, in its report, the Legislative and Legal Service stated that it considers that the solutions proposed follow the Constitutional Court's decision. For all of this, we will support the proposal of law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u65	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Article 157 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides: "The legality of the final individual acts by which the State authorities, local authorities and public authorities decide on the rights or obligations and legal benefits of individuals and organisations, shall be decided in an administrative dispute by the competent court if no other judicial protection is provided for in a particular case." The Constitution therefore provides legal protection against just any single administrative act that decides on the rights, obligations and legal benefits of an individual. In fact, in recent years we have been faced with an unconstitutional situation in this area, as in many cases the Administrative Court has rejected individual judicial protection against individual acts of State authorities, in particular local authorities, with which the rights and legal benefits of an individual have been substantively affected. Thus, no form of legal protection against illegal individual acts has been provided to individuals. This unconstitutional situation is also the case for many individuals who have failed to obtain legal protection against an obviously illegal administrative act, a strong principle of trust in the rule of law. On the other hand, this is an incentive for national authorities and, above all, for local authorities and holders of public authority not to take account of the legality of individual acts. Such an unconstitutional situation was finally established by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 10 November 2011 and imposed on the National Assembly to remedy the unconstitutional situation within one year. The amendment in question therefore complements the Law on Administrative Dispute with a new form of legal protection, by requesting that the administrative act be found to be illegal. In Novi Slovenija we welcome this amendment to the law on administrative dispute. That amendment does not remove the unconstitutional situation in return, so many individuals who have been denied legal protection against an illegal administrative act before the entry into force of the amendment in question will not be entitled to their rights. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we will support the amendment of this law, as it eliminates the unconstitutional situation at least for the future. In Novi Slovenija we will not support any regulation that would reduce or even abolish judicial protection rights at the expense of the greater efficiency of individual judicial or administrative bodies, as was the argument in the adoption of the existing law on administrative dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u67	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mrs Maša Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This time, too, I would not like to repeat everything my colleagues and colleagues have already told me. The Administrative Dispute Act should therefore be supplemented in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has decided that the Regulation of the Law on Administrative Dispute, which does not make available to the applicant any action to obtain a judicial assessment of the legality of the final administrative act, constitutes an exercise of the right to judicial protection and is therefore in breach of Article 23 of the Constitution. However, contrary to the first paragraph of this Article, the Constitution also contains decisions of the courts based on a regulation which does not provide for a judicial assessment of the legality of administrative acts. The Constitutional Court has thus decided that, pending the removal of the finding of non-conformity, the complainant may also request the finding that he was affected by an unlawful administrative act in his rights and legal benefits, and this is a so-called finding action. The action shall be possible under the conditions and on the grounds laid down in the law requiring the abolition of the administrative act, provided that the legal benefit is, of course, shown. The administrative court shall reject the action in question for the same reasons as the law provides for the rejection of the contested action. If it considers that the finding is substantiated, the judgment finds that an individual with an illegal administrative act has been affected by his or her rights and legal benefits. There is no appeal against the judgment of the Administrative Court, but renewal and revision are possible under the conditions laid down by law. Given that the proposal for a law follows consistently the decision of the Constitutional Court, which I have now stated, we will certainly support the proposed amendment of the law in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u69	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u70	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll be very short. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support a complementary proposal for a solution to the law, following a decision of the Constitutional Court issued by the Constitutional Court 10. 11. 2011 and thus provide adequate judicial protection under Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u71	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We do not have any amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill today in the context of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the motion for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. A more detailed explanation will also be presented here by the Secretary of State, Mr Helmut Hartman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! On the basis of the decision of August this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took into account the decision of the Council of Ministers and prepared amendments and additions to several laws relating to the regulation of the status of officials of the Republic of Slovenia. These amendments to the laws regulate the reduction of compensations and the receipt of compensations to various officials, from the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, including municipal officials, and also regulate the control mechanism for preventing abuse by receiving refunds. In doing so, it follows the systemic solutions of this year's amendment to the Law on Members adopted in June of this year, which are based on the proposed reform of compensations for officials who leave their posts. All these related legislative proposals shall be considered at this same meeting. Within the framework of those legislative amendments, so-called substitute provisions of the laws, the Government also proposes the adoption of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act amending only one article, one article being re-added and the final provisions being amended. What is specifically regulated by this amendment? Let me say that the amount of compensation shall be reduced, as in all subsequent laws, to constitutional judges after the end of their duties from the current 100 % to the 80%, the retention of the current legal period of remuneration up to one year and, in the case of an extension of the remuneration, where the conditions for retirement are met for a period of one year, then the provision whereby a constitutional judge who terminates his office before the end of one year after the application for no compensation shall then be governed by the supervisory mechanisms for reporting and misdemeanours, if the former Constitutional Judge receives other remuneration at the time of receiving the compensation. Here sanctions are laid down, namely the cessation of receipt of the refund and the return of the amounts paid to be covered, then the competent authority to decide on the right to compensation is also established. In this regard, the amendment proposes that the President of the Constitutional Court decide on such a right and that, when the appeal is concerned, the entire enlarged Senate. With regard to the proposed systemic determination that remuneration may last for one year with the possibility of extending to a maximum of one year, let me say that such proposed arrangements take into account the systemic situation of the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Judge is the highest constitutional and legal guardian in specific matters and that constitutional judges have only one unrepeatable nine-year term following the constitution. This means that it is a nine-year term, which is the longest given to other officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Madam Eva Irgle, President of the Committee on Justice, Public Law and Local Self-Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you so much again for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 15th emergency meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Law and Local Self-Government considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, explained in a supplementary explanation of the articles of the bill that the bill contains only one substantive amendment and one amendment to the law and follows the already adopted decisions of the legislative branch regarding the regulation of Members' rights after the end of office. It is also a matter of taking into account the decision of the competent working body of the National Assembly, which has proposed a comprehensive regulation and harmonisation of the legislation governing remuneration rights for all officials. As the main solution to the bill's proposal, the proposalr's representative highlighted the reduction in the amount of remuneration paid to the Constitutional Judges after the termination of their duties from 100 % to 80 % of the last month's salary received by the Constitutional Judge during his term of office. However, there are no changes in the remuneration deadlines. The Constitutional Judge shall be entitled to compensation for the salary for a period of one year from the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Judge as set out in Article 78, paragraph 1, of the Constitutional Court Act. The right to compensation may be extended to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, but for a maximum period of one year, as provided for so far in Article 78(2) of the Constitutional Court Act. Mrs Natasa Voršič, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that in her written opinion, the Legal and Legal Service had drawn up a general comment. From a legal and legal point of view, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that, in view of the interrelationship of the draft laws which are in the legislative process and regulate the right to pay for different officials, the proposed rights should be justified after the termination of the individual function in relation to the rights that proposed or already adopted laws lay down for other officials. The Legislative and Legal Service has also made a concrete comment on Article 2 which has also been duly taken into account with the amendment of the coalition groups. In presenting the Commission's opinion, the President of the Commission of the National Council for State Arrangements, Mr Bogomir Vnučec, said that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. However, in its written opinion, the Commission also considered that the highest officials of the individual branches of government should be treated on an equal footing and stressed at the same time that the constitutional position of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges in certain important elements differs substantially from those of the other branches of government, citing to a certain extent a different arrangement of remuneration after the end of office. In the Committee's discussion, it was pointed out that the amendments made by all related laws governing the right to pay for different officials resulted from a decision taken on the regulation of the right of Members to pay after the termination of their duties. While the members of the committee supported the changes in this light, they also pointed out that we are sending the wrong message to the public, which is further reducing the reputation of democratic institutions in the country and of the highest political and public officials. They therefore called for caution and reflection on the regulation of these rights in the future and considered that proposals that would constitute an attack on democracy, the degradation of political and public functions and contribute to a negative public opinion should be rejected in the future. The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government adopted the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He's got the word "magic" first. Ms Katarina Hočevar on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you for your word and again welcome. In this address, I will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette on the novels of the Law on the Constitutional Court, the Law on the Ombudsman and the Law on Officials in State Authorities. All these bills are based on the principle of equality, the principle of soundness of spending public finances and the principle of proportionality. If the economy is doing well, it is good for me, too, that we must identify all of us who are paid with public money. At this point in time, the social situation requires that the public finances system and the level of the benefits be overwinded and that we try to make them as realistic as possible in relation to the income of our country in its kind. The text of the laws follows the amendments to the Law on Members. The changes are symbolic and do not take root. For example, the amount of the refund shall be reduced to 80 % after the end of the term of office to the Constitutional Judge. It shall be granted a 12-month period of this refund and a maximum possible extension of another 12 months. At first glance, it appears to be a different treatment compared to a member of the Court of Auditors who also has a mandate of nine years. We have already received an explanation from the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration that the Constitutional Judge is an irrepeated term of office and that a member of the Court of Auditors may be reappointed. The Ombudsman is reduced to 80% by the majority. The period of receipt of this refund shall be set at eight months from one year and a maximum possible extension of six months. Refunds to government officials are reduced to 80 %. The time for receiving the refund remains the same as before, for three months and the maximum possible extension is possible for another six months, and after the current legislation the extension was possible for nine months. All three laws also redefine the obligation to recover amounts paid if they overlap with what the official, guardian or constitutional judge himself earned at the time of receiving the compensation. The proposals also include criminal provisions on sanctioning infringements at the time of receiving remuneration. The laws are consistent with individual stakeholders, so we will also support them in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Like the other laws contained in this package, the latter follow the pre-election commitments and commitments made by the coalition and the opposition when the amendment of the Law on Members is adopted to reorganise the field of rights of officials after the end of the term of office. The times in which we are, and the government's firm commitment to reduce public spending and consolidate public finances, require a move that we or we will show that we are willing to cut off both ourselves and all other officials. Amendments to this Act shall be followed by other laws relating to compensation after termination of office. The difference in this law relates to the longer period of receipt of this refund. According to the DeSUS Group, this distinction is entirely on the spot. The term of office of the Constitutional Judges is longer than those of the other officials, and the function of the Constitutional Judge has a completely different nature. This is the highest legal function in the country that can be achieved solely and only by exceptional legal experts, as a rule, towards the end of their careers. We therefore consider that the one-year period of remuneration in this case is entirely justified. The other provisions also include a set of amendments to a meaningful regime with the already adopted Law on Members. In the DeSUS Group, this change and the whole set of amendments will be confirmed or accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u79	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. New functional laws, including the Constitutional Court Act, which we are now amending and supplementing, affect only one area, namely the rights of officials – constitutional judges after their term of office. A certain period of time after the expiry of the term of office shall be provided for social and material security by the remuneration of the official. In view of the nature of their function and, as a rule, longer absence from their other professional participation, they need a longer period of time to re-engage, retire or otherwise regulate their material and social status. In particular, such an arrangement of rights after the end of the term of office seeks to avoid the fact that, in the last year before the end of the term of office, officials would instead be engaged in job search. Under the law in force so far, the remuneration of the officials after the expiry of the mandate was the same as the last salary received by the official and the remuneration was granted to them one year after the expiry of their duties. Such arrangements were appropriate at a time when sufficient financial resources were available for these purposes. But I'm afraid such times have passed. Due to the public financial deficit, it was necessary to cut practically into all the revenue paid from the State budget this year. Among other things, in wages and other reductions, it becomes a different function. The amount of the refund shall be reduced by the amount of the remuneration paid for the performance of the work at the time of receipt of the refund. I would then like to point out that, after their term of office, the Constitutional Judges are reduced at least in relation to the specificity of the function of the Constitutional Judge. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u81	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I still know how to say good-bye to those who are here! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will complement the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act, because we believe that these are less complex substantive changes and additions, following the legislative decisions already taken to regulate the rights of Members after the termination of the function, which pursues the objective of equality of rights and obligations between the comparable highest officials of the branch of power in the Republic of Slovenia, of which the function of the President of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia is undoubtedly the same. In its written opinion on the proposal for a law, the Legislative and Legal Service has drawn up a general comment stating from a legal point of view that, due to the interrelationship of the draft laws which are in the legislative procedure governing the right to compensation for salaries for different officials, it is necessary to justify the proposed rights following the termination of the individual function in relation to the rights which the proposed or already adopted laws provide for other officials. The Legislative and Legal Service made a concrete comment on Article 2 which was duly taken into account with the amendment of the coalition groups. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed regime will contribute to a more prudent and transparent use of public funds, so we will support the complementary proposal of the law. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party takes the same position on the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Human Rights and the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials in State Authorities, since it is a matter of systematic equal regulation of the rights of officials, as set out in the amendments and amendments to the Law on Members already adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u83	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u84	All in attendance, all in attendance! In June this year, the Commission adopted a decision on the amendment of the Law on Members, which infringed on the right to compensation after the end of its post, with a recommendation to the Government to prepare proposals for legislative amendments as soon as possible and to harmonise legislation governing the right to compensation for all officials, including constitutional judges after the end of their duties. The Social Democrats' Group will not oppose the bill's proposal, but they would point out that we are also sending wrong messages to the public in this mandate. At every step, the highest national institutions – including the proposal of this law – are becoming less prominent. Notwithstanding the fact that the public financial picture of this country is not good and that the statements of the First Minister and the Minister of Finance will not improve this picture, such proposals should be taken more seriously. Our efforts should be aimed at enhancing the reputation of state institutions, including the courts and its officials. Your Honor! But I've just read the news that the organizer of Saturday's national celebration will ensure that the seventh feat of the national anthem will be sealed. This is a contribution to the rule of law, Mr President, I thank you for your action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u85	Don't worry about it. Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We don't have any amendments to the bill. We will decide on the bill in the context of the votes. I'm breaking up with this agenda. I also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, for those of you who do not know, in the lobby we will have a little conversation with our colleagues and colleagues, on whom we are so dependent and who have stood by us since the beginning of our term or throughout the year. And I invite you to join us. We'll continue the session at 11.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u86	We continue with the 12th meeting. At the end of the day, it is by defence a bill on amendments to the law on the protection of human rights. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you are, Secretary of State Helmut Hartman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have already announced in the introduction that the following points of the package changes related to changes are therefore to focus here on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman. This amendment regulates the reduction of the remuneration after the termination of the function and the procedure for obtaining the right to compensation. Infringements and cases of detention or imprisonment have been completed. The bill makes sense to follow the systemic solutions of this year's amendment to the Law on Members, as already explained at the previous point. With regard to all the laws submitted, I would like to add further clarification in relation to the introductory presentations at the previous point, namely, that in all the laws of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have given careful consideration to the relationship and differences between the individual authorities whose position we govern. However, for all, a reduction in the amount of the refund is made from 100 % to 80 %, and according to these ratios and differences, different periods of remuneration are also determined and the extension of the remuneration when it comes to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement. Also in view of the fact that the proposed legislation should not discourage professional staff who would like to run for these professional and important functions or interfere with their independence, in particular the expertise of these bodies, we considered that we were careful to record these relations. Therefore, in individual laws, we propose some non-horizontal measures for all, except for the reduction, when we reduce from 100 to 80, but mainly in the work when we talk about the length of these refunds. If I return specifically to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman, we are reducing the base from the previous 100 % to the current 80 %, a shorter period is set for receiving compensation, from the previous 12 months to the 8 months, a provision providing that the refund does not belong, but from the beginning of the function until the end of the function is less than 6 months in the course of this work, and supervisory mechanisms for reporting and misdemeanours, as explained at the previous point, shall be laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The bill was addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! At its 15th emergency meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman, which was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, and was also published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ombudsman, the State Council and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. In its opinion, the Service made some general comments, as well as specific comments, on Articles 2 and 5 of the proposal. The Committee was also informed in advance of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, which supports the proposal for a law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 2 and 5 of the bill. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration explained that the proposed amendments to the law were prepared on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers-elect, by which the Commission recommended to the Government that it harmonise the legislation governing the status of all officials not only Members. He explained that the proposed solutions follow the systemic solutions of the already adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members and are aimed at rational use of budgetary resources. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further explained that the service provided some systemic warnings in a written opinion due to the interrelationship of several legislative proposals that are in the legislative process. With regard to the specific comments of the service to Articles 2 and 5, she explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were duly taken into account. In presenting the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, the representative of the Council of State stressed that the Commission was in favour of the proposed law. He later participated in the discussion with the Deputy Ombudsman, who expressed his support for the proposed law. In the debate, members and members of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government expressed support for the proposed amendments to the law, with individual members of the Committee drawing attention to problems related to the loss of the reputation of officials and to the position of those who, after the end of their term of office, failed to find employment. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and then adopted the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 2 and 5 of the proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is, of course, an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Messengers and Members! Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman following a reduced procedure, as amendments and additions to this law are necessary in order to harmonise legislation governing the right to compensation for all officials. By re-regulation of the Ombudsman's rights after the end of office management, we follow a comprehensive regulation and harmonisation of the legislation governing remuneration rights for all officials, not just Members. The proposal for a law provides for a period of remuneration after the end of the term of office of the Ombudsman for eight months, with the exception of an extension of six months in the event that the conditions for retirement are met. Such reduction of rights follows the law of rational use of public funds. The amendments of the coalition also take into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services and thus remove any confusion. The bill is also supported by the Ombudsman, so we do not see any reservations in the Slovenian People's Party's Group about the adoption of this bill. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that such measures also further open up a space to reduce the reputation of public functions. We need to be increasingly aware of the problems related to the deterioration of the reputation of officials and to be aware of the situation of those who fail to find employment after the end of their term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Secretary of State! The amendments and additions to this Act are also the result of the commitment made in this package to harmonise legislation governing the rights to compensation for other officials with respect to their remuneration. The new law is in line with the institution to which it relates, namely the Ombudsman and his deputies. The proposed regime does not depart from the adopted arrangements for other officials, so this novel will also receive the support of Members and Members of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you. Your Honor! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman now falls within the scope of the so-called functional laws. The changes affect only one area, namely the rights of the Ombudsman following the expiry of his mandate. The amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman reduces the amount of compensation after the Ombudsman’s term of office from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received by the Ombudsman during his term of office. The period of receipt of the refund shall be reduced from 12 months to 8 months from the end of the mandate, and the period of extension of the entitlement to compensation shall be reduced from 12 months to 6 months. The right to compensation shall be revoked if the Ombudsman ceases to function before the expiry of one year of the mandate. The remuneration shall be reduced for the amount of remuneration paid for at the time of receipt of the refund, the right to receive the remuneration shall be terminated if the member ceases to be employed before the period for which the remuneration is due to him or her, takes up a gainful activity or fulfils the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension without reduction. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman shall coordinate the remuneration of the Ombudsman with the remuneration of Members after the end of their term of office, as laid down in the last amendment to the Law on Members. However, it is important and commendable that the current Ombudsman has also agreed to the amendments mentioned above. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Sonja Ramšak. I'm sorry, you've already presented your position. Then let's move on. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Mr State Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament. The Ombudsman's Institute has been introduced into the new Slovenian constitutional system with independence. The first guardian with three deputies was elected by the National Assembly in 1994, the second with four deputies in 2001 and is now completing the mandate of the third guardian or guardian with four deputies. It is the case that two-thirds of the votes in the National Assembly are to be given a majority. On the basis of the legislation in force, the officials of this institution had the right to a one-year full-time salary after the end of their service, and now, as has been said several times, the remuneration is reduced to 80% and the time of receipt is reduced, thus reducing the time when they can apply the refund if they fulfil the right to retirement. A new provision has also been introduced to replace termination if the Ombudsman has served for less than one year. This is something that is rolling like a snowball with the introduced first law, and it was also foretold that all the officials would happen, but in view of the number of guardians, two, and deputies so far, these were all seven, it would be good to know whether the officials of this institution ever applied for compensation, and if, indeed, they could claim that the compensation paid was the reason for the situation in the country. Given the situation in the country, we may need to consider whether we should not strengthen these functions, especially given that we do not have a central function for the protection of human rights. Although the amendment of the law has also been coordinated with the Ombudsman, in the Group of Social Democrats, we warn that the messages we send to the public are not good. We believe that the Ombudsman is an important institution for citizens and citizens. The watchman is independent and independent in his work. So it's also a crucifixion between all branches of power. The Ombudsman’s procedure is informal and free of charge for customers. Anyone who believes that the acts of the body have violated human rights or fundamental freedoms may give him an initiative to initiate proceedings with the Ombudsman. We therefore reiterate that we should think about strengthening this institution and enhancing the reputation of this institution, not how to reduce it in a way that reduces the circle of those who would potentially be interested in appointing it. In view of everything, however, I must say that we will not vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of conditions for the function of the President of the Republic. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor again to the Secretary of State. I apologize, Mr Secretary of State, but you are not mentioned as a representative of the Government who could present his position. Just a minute. Mr. Burner, I'm sorry I can't give you my word. The Government's position could be presented by Mrs Ksenija Mihovar Globokar as Director. Here's what I said or her deputy. Here you go. Scenario error. We'll fix it. Dr. Janez Burner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! This law, which is before you, also goes in the direction of coordination with other laws that regulate the rights of officials to pay their salaries after they leave office. The bill provides for a reduction in the remuneration for the President of the Republic after the end of the term of office from 100% to 80% of the last month's salary. The draft law also provides for the deletion of the provision of Article 20, which governs the remuneration of the President of the Republic whose office has ceased after the end of receiving the remuneration. These benefits represent the difference between the salary or pension and 80 per cent of the salary of the President of the Republic. However, the right to an office space, an adviser and a staff member performing administrative and technical tasks and the use of a service vehicle with a driver for a maximum of one year shall be reduced. The law thus follows comparable measures adopted with respect to other officials, especially in the Law on Members and their Rights after the end of the term of office, and those rights are governed in a comparable manner with other officials, so as to reduce them proportionately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. At its 15th emergency meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the provision of conditions for the management of the function of the President of the Republic submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. Ms Ksenija Mihovar Globokar, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service, stressed in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposal for a law was in the direction of coordination with other laws governing the right of officials to compensation after the termination of their duties. She explained that the draft law provides for a reduction in the remuneration for the President of the Republic after the end of the mandate from 100% to 80% of the last monthly salary. The draft law also provides for the deletion of the provision of Article 20, which governs the remuneration of the President of the Republic who has ceased his office after the end of receiving the remuneration and represents the difference between the salary or pension and 80 per cent of the salary of the President of the Republic. The rights to office space, counsellor and staff carrying out administrative and technical tasks and the use of a service vehicle with a driver for a maximum of one year shall also be reduced. Ms Nataša Voršič, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and had made comments to Article 2, which had also been corrected by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. With regard to the transitional provision, however, she pointed out that it dealt with the issues of expected rights but did not already address the rights acquired. It has given rise to the fact that the principle of equal rights in the law should clearly make clear the legal position of the individuals to whom the law applies. The proposal for a law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, which supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, the coalition MPs stressed that the draft law follows all other amendments to the laws that downplay the rights of former officials in the current acute economic situation. They pointed out that, in view of the equalisation of the situation for all the Presidents, who, or who would have just ceased their term of office in future and final provisions, also needed to regulate the termination of the right for the former President of the Republic. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee was put forward in this regard. The opposition MEPs have, however, identified the solutions to the draft law as extremely questionable, as they interfere with the rights of an official who is the highest authority in the country and, indirectly, the attitude towards the country itself is reflected in relation to this function. The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government adopted the amendment of the coalition Polish groups to Article 2. The Committee then adopted its amendment to Article 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee finally voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and amendments are included. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Once again a lovely greeting, respected and respected! The most debates and the most opposition to the reduction in the period of receipt of the refund and the reduction in the amount of the refund were the subject of a law governing the rights of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. We certainly do not deny the fact that the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia is extremely important because it represents the Republic of Slovenia and is at the same time the Commander-in-Chief of its defence forces. The President of the Republic must be the first representative of the country and, with the implementation of this act, performs an important role of integration. In the DeSUS Group, we point out that the intervention in the right to compensation after the termination of the office and the marriage of other rights is a right to an office, to an adviser, to a business secretary, to a vehicle, to a driver, in line with the institution of the President of the Republic. Thus, the opinion of the current President and also the opinion of the future President on these amendments is positive. There's no objection to that, no opposition. The opposition, however, advocates the preservation of all rights to the first President of the Republic of Slovenia. Their argument is a legal decision. With all due respect to Mr Milan Kučan, who successfully led our country from independence to 1 December 2002 and was the first human president and leader, the opposition's argument falls for entirely legal reasons, which were also cited by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia when dealing with the rights acquired. For the sake of respect for all the Presidents of our country and for the future President, who will make his oath this Saturday in the National Assembly, the DeSUS Group does not intend to engage in populist debates either in position or in debate, and even less in arguing about the status of this function, as we are all aware of what this function means and represents. The rights after the termination of the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia for future former presidents are justified and comparable to the other functions in which we intervene today. The infringements of rights already acquired, as has already been said, are based on strong and reasoned views based on the opinion of the Constitutional Judges and their decisions. The whole package of laws and this law will be supported by Members of the Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Member of the New Slovenia and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Under the so-called functional laws, the amendment of the Law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic is also under consideration. It covers the area of rights of the President of the Republic after the end of his term of office. This law also pursues the objectives of the cost-effectiveness of public finances and the reduction of budgetary expenditure on the rights of the President of the Republic after the end of the mandate of social solidarity, by which the highest public officials, after the expiry of the mandate, must share the burden of the economic and financial crisis in the country and the equality of rights and obligations between the comparable highest public officials. In this regard, in particular, it is meant to align the rights of the President of the Republic whose term of office has expired with those of the Member after the end of their term of office, as amended for them by the amendment of the Law on Members. After the expiry of the mandate, the President of the Republic shall be reduced from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received at the time of the performance of the post which he may receive as he has been in office for a maximum period of one year, with the possibility of an extension of one year until the minimum conditions for retirement have been met. This right shall cease if, before the end of the period for which the remuneration is due to him, the former President of the Republic begins to exercise a gainful activity or meets the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension without a reduction or another function. The amount of the refund shall be reduced by the amount of the remuneration paid for the performance of the work at the time of receipt of the refund. The period of the right to office space, staff and the right to work vehicle with the driver shall also be reduced from the previous 5 to a maximum of one year from the end of the term of office. In view of the fact that, at the time of the adoption of the amendment in question, the mandate of the President of the Republic is to expire, the law laid down in the transitional and final provisions that the right to office space, staff and the right to work vehicle with the driver shall cease within one year of the entry into force of this Act. Since the legal situation of all the Presidents of the Republic, who have been or will be terminated from their term of office, the amendment of this Act removes the right to a monthly pension equal to 80 per cent of the monthly salary of the President of the Republic, to which the former President of the Republic has so far been entitled. Such an arrangement seems appropriate to us in terms of ensuring the principle of equality. Finally, a part of the burden of the economic and financial crisis must also be borne by the former President of the Republic and contribute something to its overall savings. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of conditions for the performance of the presidency of the Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As the colleague has already explained, in Positive Slovenia we also support the fact that, in certain areas, the intention of the Law on Members is to reduce certain ratings or, as some like to say, the privilege of individual function holders. Therefore, even in this law on the President of the Republic, we do not in our own right oppose such an intention of the legislator. We are opposed, however, to the fact that in this function, and this in the function that covers an extremely small number of people in relation to everyone else, excessively interferes with the rights of the President of the country. For this novelty, the applicant also lists the same laws as for previous proposals, ensuring equality between officials in the Republic of Slovenia in the area of remuneration and other benefits, and social solidarity among all officials who have ceased to function. Therefore, we understand that the former President of the Republic is also being reduced from 100 per cent to 80 per cent. This is particularly in line with the rules of other laws. A slightly greater imbalance arises as soon as the right under Article 20 of this Act, under which the former President of the Republic has the right to an office space, an adviser and an employee performing administrative and technical tasks and the use of a service vehicle with a driver decreases from 5 to 1 year, a very large and disproportionate reduction under other laws. In this regard, let me mention that this right is also not to some refugees in our regulation, but it has been clearly summarised by the legislators under the regulations of other European countries where such rights for former presidents are established to this extent or even to a greater extent. What is even more strange is the amendment to Article 20 of this Act, which was adopted by the Justice Committee, which also abolishes the right to pay the pension difference of up to 80 per cent of the salary of the President of the Republic to the former President if he retired. Let me say that the Legislative and Legal Service on the Justice Committee has indeed warned that the new amendment to the law does not provide for this right and that this situation needs to be addressed. As the Legal and Legislative Service has warned, changes to the law may not affect the already legally acquired right to return, but under certain conditions they may affect the rights to go forward, but this needs to be explicitly regulated. However, the legal rule in this respect is, and this is usually applied, that in such a case the rights already acquired are unchanged. Such an amendment was immediately proposed on the Committee by Positive Slovenia and was therefore so much more negatively surprised when the coalition came with a completely different solution, that is to say that this third intervention into the rights of the President of the Republic is also being completely abolished. I cannot agree with the speakers that this is not an intervention in the rights acquired. Of course, it is an intervention in the acquired rights to return and, of course, this intervention is possible under certain conditions. I will discuss this in more detail in explanation of the amendment, and here only for a little while. For all infringements of rights, it is necessary to weigh between individual rights. To put it simply, here too, it is necessary to weigh whether the social benefit is, therefore, a savings, justified by the fact that this right, which has also been granted to a person by a legal decision and by law in the past, has been granted. In particular, the question of the end of my debate in this respect should be that each person can calculate for himself how much such savings for a country's budget can mean for a person for a few years. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore oppose such interference with these rights and we wish to remind ourselves that we are talking about the most important official in our country, directly elected to the President of the Republic, within a hundred years we will have 10 of them, and it is shameful for a country that even such persons, regardless of whether you like them or not, do not give them some rights that have already been granted by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Sonja Ramšak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u109	Dear President, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law providing the conditions for the presidency of the Republic, including amendments adopted at the meeting of the home committee, for the following reasons. When considering the amendments and supplementing the Law on Members adopted at the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government was required to prepare proposals for legislative amendments as soon as possible, which should also be aligned with legislation governing the right to compensation for other officials or officials in the State Administration. In the course of the proceedings, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly drew attention to the principle of equality in the regulation of the right to compensation after the termination of the function, which requires that substantially equal situations be regulated in the same manner, which means that the proposed changes in respect of the rights to compensation after the termination of the term should also be reflected in all other officials whose right to compensation belongs to them in the same way as Members. It highlighted the requirement for an equivalent, comparable and, at the same time, legal system-wide uniting of rights after the end of the mandate for all officials to whom this right belongs. The second point of the Legislative and Legal Service concerned the validity of the law and the admissibility of interference with the already acquired rights of Members who had already acquired the right, namely to intervene in the acquired rights with the validity to go forward, which is referred to in theory as the so-called unfair retroactivity protected by the principle of confidence in law. It follows from the case-law of the Constitutional Court that the fundamental criteria for possible interference with acquired rights of urgency and proportionality are substantively key proportionality, which has a particular weight and has already been defined by the Constitutional Court as the admissibility of such interventions, which are not excessive. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service stated that, in many cases, the Constitutional Court had already ruled on infringements of the rights acquired, while it considered it essential that the legislator had arguments justifying interference with the rights acquired, that these arguments were constitutionally relevant and that the secured goods were so strong as to weigh the interference with the rights acquired. We therefore support the proposed amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that they are less complex substantive changes and additions, following the legislative decisions already taken on the regulation of Members' rights following the termination of the function, which pursue the objective of equality of rights and obligations between comparable maximum officials of the government. We also support the adoption of the amendment of the Committee by which the new third and fourth paragraphs of Article 5 are added, which provides that the President of the Republic, who has ceased to function before the entry into force of this Act and has the right to receive the monthly allowance referred to in Article 20, paragraph 3, of the Law on the provision of conditions for the administration of the presidency of the Republic, shall cease this right and that the President of the Republic must be given a decision by the competent authority in accordance with this Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that the lack of transitional provisions has been highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, since the proposed amendment to this Article also addresses the issue of the rights already acquired, since the principle of equal rights in the law must clearly reflect the legal position of the individuals to whom the law applies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also strongly reject the claims made by opposition Members and Members who on the Home Committee have pointed out that we support the proposed amendment, which is included in the proposed amendments, because it restricts rights to Mr Kučan, the first former President of the Republic of Slovenia. On the Home Committee, Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and other coalition parties stressed that we support the proposed amendments for the same reason, which is the same treatment of all officials, not the name, not the name of the individual, but the function to which the amendments to be adopted refer. We also believe that all former presidents must be equal in all rights. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the complementary draft law with the amendments included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u111	All in attendance, all in attendance! Since 1991, when Slovenia became an independent and independent state, we have elected four Presidents of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces in five direct general and secret elections. On the basis of the Act on the provision of conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic, in 2003 the inadequacy and inadequacy of the then regulation of the President of the Republic with the aim of fully regulating the material and other conditions for the exercise of the functions of the President of the Republic, the obligations of the authorities providing these conditions, the further grounds for the organisation and functioning of the Office of the President of the Republic, the notification, payment and other rights of work, as well as the position and rights of the spouse of the President of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the performance of protocol and other social obligations, as well as the rights of the President after the end of office, were eliminated. The position of the President and the conditions for the performance of his office have been sought to bring together arrangements in other comparable countries, which grant the President rights in accordance with the dignity of his office even after the end of his office. Let's look at the rights of Schröder, Clinton, and not to mention the other former presidents of the appointed states. This set up a new institution, the institution of the former President of the Republic. In addition, certain rights were granted to the former President of the Republic after the end of his term of office and two employees for a period of five years, that for a period of one year after the end of his term of office he was entitled to compensation for his salary, but only until he was employed or fulfilled the conditions for retirement under the general rules, and that this compensation could be extended for a period of not more than one year until the conditions for retirement were fulfilled, as well as the difference between the salary or pension and 80 % of the salary of the President of the Republic. According to the proposal for a new law, which we are considering today, this will all be different. I will not repeat what has already been said today. We have been very critical of the social democrats until this novel. We understand that the financial and economic situation in Slovenia is worse than when we established this law when we set up this new former President's Institute, but we need to consider whether now is the right time to intervene in this institution. The person representing the Republic of Slovenia and all its nationals and citizens is the Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces, the highest authority in the country. His mandate is limited. He may be elected to this post in direct general and secret elections, and twice as often as possible. In order to help strengthen the financial and economic stability of the Republic of Slovenia, Members of the Social Democrats' Group can only laugh, since it is one or two former presidents, and there will be no ten in a hundred years, since no one will live 150 or 200 years. This is bullshit, people! The amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia will be supported by the Social Democrats. If coalition parliamentary groups have the power to do the same as we do, we will also support this law. Otherwise, not at all. We're making fun of this country. Already in the previous laws that we are proposing today, I have spoken and I repeat that we are undermining the reputation of politicians, those who have been elected, as I have already mentioned, and we are hurting all of us. Otherwise, we will vote against this law of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u113	Hello again. We're all here at the service of the state. The country's not at our service. And we started this mandate by lowering the benefits to ourselves, which is only right. It is now time for all others in the service of the State to stop some of the benefits paid by the citizens after the end of their duties. It's not about ideology. The amendments proposed represent a level playing field for all, including the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the President of the Republic. This value is not based on the Civil Charter, but on our country, which is particularly important now at the time of finding the right way out of the crisis. Amendments to the law are balanced when compared with the other four laws, where we also limit compensation after the termination of the function. The former President of the Republic shall be compensated for a maximum of one year, reduced to 80 %, and may be extended for a year if he fulfils the conditions for retirement. The former President now belongs, in addition to the use of office space, to the adviser, secretary, driver and the use of the service vehicle, for a period of five years after the end of his term of office. The new benefits are limited to one year. In this law, however, we felt that it was necessary to point out that some of the benefits today were exaggerated by the current law. The benefit that has indeed stood out in comparison with other officials has been defined in Article 20 and is deleted by this amendment. The member provided the former President with a practical life pension or compensation of up to 80% of the President's salary, which is now slightly over €6,000 gross. All of you, who would maintain these privileges, take your time, and try to explain this to people with 700 euros of salary or 622 euros of pension. The President of the Republic of Slovenia and all former presidents deserve respect, but in this country all the citizens in whose service they have served are respected. It is therefore necessary to have respect for any heavily earned tax-paying euro. Sometimes it seems that everyone in this country knows this value — except some politicians. Last but not least, is respect measured in money and dependent solely or principally on the amount of the pension? We will therefore support the proposal of the Law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposed amendment also reduces the right for the President of the Republic to receive remuneration from 100 % to 80 % of the presidents after the end of the job. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the deletion of benefits that other officials are not entitled to. These are the benefits that now represent the difference between the salary of the former President or pension and 80% of the salary of the President of the Republic. For a maximum of one year after the term of office, the right to a service vehicle and driver shall be restricted and the right to office space, to an adviser and to an employee performing administrative and technical tasks shall be reduced. The bill also adequately regulates the supervision of remuneration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that such harmonisation is comparable to reducing the rights and benefits of all other officials. In view of the need for rationalisation and more efficient use of public funds, measures must be implemented in a comparable manner for all in the public administration, including for all officials, especially since the reductions and rationalisation have already occurred to many other public servants with significantly lower remuneration. For these reasons, Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the law following a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5. We have an amendment tabled. This debate will be held on the basis of this review, which has been tabled in 19. 12. 2012. I therefore put to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. I'm opening time to report to the debate. We've got six interviewees reported. The first one is Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. It is difficult to discuss this because one cannot believe that we are still a country born 20 years ago, and we do not know the reputation of certain structures in the country, that we still do not cultivate proper relations with the symbols of the country. I ask you, when will we now have a state holiday, how many flags will the Members hang on your houses, on your apartments? We must uphold the reputation of the president of the state. It's not a simple thing. If we want to be a country comparable to other democratic countries, then the one who has finished is still something special. We'll take his car — yes, but how many times did he drive? We'll take away his office and office help. And that these are too many benefits! Tell me – me, Mirko Brulc, Member of the National Assembly, what benefits do I have? Or you? Tell these voters and voters. We're not talking about the benefits. And let's ask people, let's explain to people with low incomes what they'll say if the former president of the country has these "comforts". You ask them what they'll tell you. I know what they're telling me, what it would take. And no one mentions the former presidents. I think that this is a shameful act in this House and that we are not doing the right thing. I'll give you my experience. When I became mayor, the cops on the street didn't say hello, I said hello, they didn't say hello. But when I stood in line in the next Gorica in Italy on the border block, a cop came to me, took me out of the column, ran in front of me, saluted me, and said goodbye! These are relations with state officials, with hopes, with Members, and I don't know what. They call me "Anorvoles" in the session, if you know what it is. You know, it's such respect. And we, the President, the former president of the country, are taking some credits that are financially irrelevant. Let's save up with other people, in the retirements that someone from the Chamber of Commerce or does, what I know, brings thousands of euros and "goats", it pisses people off, it gets them out on the street, and I don't invite anyone to the street. Not the former president! I ask you if Mr Beast would be elected if this proposal were different. But because he's here because he might be Danilo Türk, because tomorrow, I don't know if he'll be, Borut Pahor, because he's still young and he can't "punch" on waiting for his pension – would it be different? I ask you kindly, let us change our attitude towards these institutions, withdraw this bill or accept the amendment of Positive Slovenia, so that we do not spoil our reputation. Schroeder was here last month in Ljubljana, ahead of which came some security guards from Germany. He had an escort. He came as president of the state, not as some kind of outsider. What if President Danilo Türk, former president, goes to a state party this morning, but he's going to book his chair, ask if they're going to book him a parking spot or something? It doesn't matter what name it is. Whoever it is, whoever it is! It is the task of all of us to cultivate this reputation, which the President of the country has, as long as it is. I will strongly oppose such a decision and repeat once again, only one unnecessary extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly costs more than that car that the former President may use once a month. Only one of our petty nonsensees, adopted by this vote, can cost ten times more than the former president who runs this status. Come on, please, let's not be left here, right, right, ours, yours, but what you've all been saying – let's step together now, let's step together and press this amendment to accept it and save our shame. They laugh at me in neighboring Italy in Gorica. They laugh at me because they know these things exactly, not the last five, ten, twenty years, but a hundred years. And they can't believe that we are, I shouldn't say, such Balkan people that we are doing such things. Please understand, this is not a defeat if you agree to change this proposal, this is our victory, a joint victory. And it'll be better to celebrate Saturday night if this mistake is fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. It is sad that we are talking today about such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic. It is not a problem to reduce the refund from 100 per cent to 80 per cent. The President of the Republic of Slovenia is the first person of the country and 102th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines the presidency of the Republic. The President of the Republic of Slovenia represents the Republic of Slovenia and is the Commander-in-Chief of its Defence Forces. Today, no official opposes the social solidarity of all officials and the reduction of the monetary remuneration of salaries and other benefits, as were the solutions to the amendment of the Law on Members. We've talked about this a lot today. The President of the Republic and the other highest positions in the country are not about their personal positions, it is not about their name and surname, it is about the reputation of democratic institutions in the country, it is about the importance of the institution of the President of the Republic and the reputation of this highest position in the country. It is also very important that we maintain this importance and the reputation of the institution of the President of the Republic at a level such as now, that anyone else will want to demonstrate their reputation and integrity for the occupation of these functions, unless we, in the first place, give the function the importance and respect we have so far. This bill is going in the opposite direction. The reputation created by the President of the Republic is largely representative and contributes to the reputation of the State, the State represented by it, even after the term of office or two terms of office of the President has expired and becomes the former President of the Republic. It is therefore extremely important for the state of Slovenia to respect the institution of the President of the Republic. In Slovenia we like to compare ourselves very much with our very important partner country in the European Union of Germany. In Germany, the President, as my colleague Brulc has already mentioned today, who has resigned from his post, receives an honorary fee equal to that of the current president of the country, but does not receive different supplements. However, respect, reputation, the importance of this former president in Germany remains unique for the rest of his life. That's the way it is with us. Representatives may smile here, but it is not right to think differently than it is elsewhere in the world. In Slovenia too, the former Presidents of the Republic, with their reputation and participation in various events in Slovenia and around the world and in inter-State meetings, contribute and contribute to the reputation of the country and preserve the reputation of the Institute of the President of the Republic. Whether this is the first President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan or now Dr Danilo Türk. The amendment to Article 5 has an obvious name and last name, and this amendment is a specific person. Former President, and we know what this is, this is Mr Milan Kučan, and obviously this is a problem. And I would like to conclude that this consideration of these changes to the law would mean that they are just my dreams. Not like the first President of the Republic of Slovenia, who still has a remarkable reputation today, this is Mr Milan Kučan, when this country was born, said as the first President of the Republic of Slovenia: "Today is a dream permitted, tomorrow is a new day." I will support the amendment of Positive Slovenia. Dear coalition, it's time you changed your mind!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u121	Dear Vice President, present at the Hall! This law is not so much a limitation of rights or a reduction of some of the benefits that a president of the country, the current or the President of the State, should have enjoyed, in one way or another, an expiry of his term of office. The problem is that we are talking about interfering in this country with the institution of the President of the State, the President of the Republic, as if it were someone. The President of the Republic is a man, a person who has been elected in direct elections, who was appointed the first man of the country, the Republic, all of us in common and the only Slovenia, and after the end of the term remains a man who represented this country and continues to represent our country at home and throughout the world. The relationship with the President's Institute, the Commander-in-Chief of the Army, is not correct in this country. Where's our pride? As much as we appreciate and respect ourselves, others will appreciate and respect us. We here so despise the Institute of Presidents in this country, we even have a slightly incorrect attitude towards state symbols, even the national anthem. Every few months, we'd change things and change and change things. Do you know who would like to change such important data, such important symbols, such important things as the Institute of the President of the State or the symbols of the country? Someone who can't be found in space or time. Someone who's lost. We have our sovereignty, we have our country, we have the Republic of Slovenia that we must love. And we politicians, Members and Members must show that we respect this first and appreciate that other citizens and citizens will also know and respect this. If we look at the whole situation in such a deplorable and unappreciative way and show it that way, if we show or identify the Institute of President with a name and surname in any way, it will now be on this side, on the other hand, whatever. No, no, no. The President's Institute does not depend on the name and surname of Milan or Borut or John, Janša or anyone else. This could be anyone. But the President's Institute is the President's Institute. It is protected, untouchable, and this is something that represents us all, represents us at home and in the world. Showing some smallness. Look, just to read to you, somewhere in a newspaper I recently tracked down why they built the White House in the United States. So that anyone who crosses the threshold of the White House gets his knees fixed. Here is the power, the dignity of the nation and the state. With us, we're looking at the president living in a block, but we have a villa under Roznik that we're letting go of. See, at a time when the President of the State, whoever has already taken this position and has been elected democratically, it is right that the President of the State, as a representative of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who is our common representative, represents us at home and in the world, with the emphasis of the world, as is appropriate. If we despise the President's Institute, we despise ourselves. That's a big problem. The attitude towards the Institute of Presidents, as stressed by colleague Brunskola and formerly colleague Brulc, is true. We wish there was a better relationship. We need to fix this, and we need to improve that. I don't know what kind of false modesty we're going to be. Imagine the president of the country getting a visit from someone I don't know. Throughout the world, the presidents of the countries are associated at some personal level, at a relaxed level and invite each other and so on. With us — what will we say? He's going to invite someone to the block where he lived before he was elected president of the country, because we don't allow our own leader to represent us with dignity. We have buildings that are failing, we are costing maintenance, we have a plane falcon, and we do not allow our top officials to use this tool that is also costing us. I wish we'd sold it! How many years are we going to have all these failed investments and investments to stand somewhere closed and not allow anyone to use it, even if it's the president of the country. No, we look under everyone's fingers, and then a fellow citizen's list compares how people who have five hundred, six euros in wages are going to look at it. Such an attitude towards the Institute of the President of the State, such an attitude, such disrespect for ourselves and the people and the President of the State has brought us into this crisis. That false display of modesty. Because of me, all politicians in Slovenia or all politicians in the world can drive in roller-skating, they can spend unlimited amounts of money every day if people have a decent life, work, regular and proper wages, so that they can survive from month to month, and that there will be something left for them. It is the task of politicians to create a climate and conditions for economic growth, for a better life, not to display false modesty, how modest we are, how we will now spend thousands of euros there. And at the end of 2012 and at the end of 2013, our workers and workers will have only smaller salaries. In this country, we are competing with one another, who is poorer and showing some false modesty. I am talking about personal, my opinion, against this false modesty, against this disrespect for myself and the Institute of the President of the State. The Institute of the President of the State is something that represents all of us, we must be aware of it. And let us allow anyone who represents us at home and in the world, let us allow him to represent us as the presidents of other countries do, where they place more on their country and on their national symbols and on all people elected in a democratic way. Unfortunately, we don't know that in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. I will begin with a slight smile in Positive Slovenia when we saw that, together with the position of other officials, we would also be saving the position of President of the Republic. The President of the Republic, however, is indeed a situation involving such a small number of people that savings are negligible. But that was clear. We were amazed, as we have said, when we saw that the President of the Republic was far more excessive and not proportionate than the other officials. Not only does it decrease from 100% to 80%, but from five years to one year, some other benefits that are characteristic of all the presidents of the countries in Europe, such as additional ratings in terms of an office, a vehicle and so on, which can be used by the President of the Republic for some time after the end of the term of office. In this sense, we have also invented in our country an institution of the former President, which is also characteristic, not only for Slovenia, but also for all other countries. Someone who once came into such a high position as the highest position in the country probably deserves to have some credit after leaving this function that others do not have. Therefore, comparisons with other citizens here are truly populist and inappropriate. Every citizen can't be the President of the Republic, only one can be, and for ten years he can be replaced. And it seems to us that there is really a population without borders and a decline in the reputation of institutions in this country, which the coalition has been working for a while, and the Civil Charter is ahead of this. The best part is that we really cut everyone who sticks out a little bit, so we're all gonna be just like the poor. Because we don't like intellectuals, not artists, not those who have achieved something more in this or that area, not those who have slightly higher status, not those who have slightly higher incomes, not those who have slightly higher positions. No, no, no. We all have to be the same poor. Of course, the fact that we are all equal is no doubt, but you would want us all to be equal to the poor, so that no one will be offended. But this really isn't the subject of this amendment. This amendment refers to one small thing, because we hoped that perhaps, not on the basis of substantive arguments, but on the basis of legal arguments, we could only convince someone. The fact that we fail with substantive arguments is clear to us. Then every so long, we have the hope that we will succeed with legal arguments. When the Legislative and Legal Service warned that the situation was not regulated for one former President, that it was not clear whether the pension allowance had ceased or remained, we thought that it was really easy to arrange that this allowance for only one other President, for others, would not remain so. Because as the new president, now the former, is said to be in office now, you have managed to get this law into a procedure in time so that I don't have any ratings, so we don't even deny it. I'm talking about a situation that had to be settled for one former president. In accordance with the legal doctrine, it is normally regulated that the right, if obtained by law, if any legal provision is based on it and if, in accordance with the principles laid down by the Constitutional Court, there is no effect on, for example, public consumption in this case, it may remain unchanged. No, no, no. You went directly into the opposite. There is no excuse here for interfering with the rights acquired, for which – I have to explicitly disagree with the provosts. Once again, I will say what the Constitutional Court said in its 1991 decision: 'An infringement of the acquired right to return is not possible, and under certain conditions it is possible to proceed. The most important thing is to weigh the public interest and the right to intervene in the legal expectations of that individual, who will be affected by this right." What a savings it will be because this right for one president will not be exercised in the future, we can think. In a few years it will be, I don't know, 14,000 euros a year. And how old is that in a few years? And if it's worth interfering with the rights of our country's top officials, it's a shame. This constitutional decision I am talking about also refers to the urgency of the infringement. Is the situation in this country so severe that we have to resort to such interventions? Is this the urgency that the Constitutional Court is talking about? And it speaks of proportionality – and here again I ask whether the regulation concerning interference with the rights of the President of the Republic is proportionate to the other officials we have discussed today. Of course not. So, in the end, a person can't get rid of the feeling that it's another ideological division that makes you open up to people again, a division that is not based on the fact that it's the former president of the country, but on who this president is. Does it really bother you so much that this is President Kučan? I don't know why he resented you so much. I was quite young at the time, but it was in my memory. And in view of all that I have been monitoring back and back at the time of independence, he is an extremely calm person who has maintained a sober head at the right time and has a large share of the contribution that Slovenia has withdrawn from Yugoslavia in a rather peaceful and innocuous manner. And that you have to deal with older people, with former presidents in such low-level ways, is really sad. Clearly, all that was to be done back is to betray, destroy, dismantle, as if it did not exist, but in a new spirit, we will all be equally poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u125	Colleagues and colleagues! When I saw the proposal for this law, I thought about what would actually lead the proposer to this. I found out on my own, I don't know if you'd agree with me, two basic reasons. The first fundamental reason, in my opinion, is that, despite the constant call to patriotism, to national competitiveness and everything, we do not realize what it means to have, to lead and to live our country. We do not respect our countries, and this is seen every day at various levels. Not only in relation to officials, I'd say, mostly in relation to people. But that's another story, not the story of this marriage. The second reason I see it is, however, what many have said before me is ideological. I am truly sorry, I tell you, I am truly sorry, I am a leftist, and you all know this, but I am truly sorry that we have not yet had a right-wing president of the country, because perhaps today's debate would be quite different. If Mr Jože Pučnik were still alive, perhaps we would have Mr Pučnik as President in the middle, and that would not be on today's agenda. I'm pretty sure of that. Perhaps something will change now, given that Mr Pahor has chosen mainly the right hand, so that perhaps this will be better now. I hope so deeply. Let's see why I think we need to support our proposal. Not because Positive Slovenia would be smarter than anyone else. In particular, in order to preserve that little dignity to the President of the Republic, the former President of the Republic, as well as the comparable functions abroad. We keep talking we are part of Europe, we are in the European Union. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in any European Union in our way of thinking and our way of acting. That's exactly where you know who's who. Not everyone can be the President of the Republic, not everyone can be the Prime Minister, not everyone can be, ladies and gentlemen, a Member. And we know it ourselves. It is very difficult for us to be elected, very difficult for us to be elected when we run for election. This President has indeed been elected by all citizens. Let us see what this is like in other comparable European countries. The Presidents of the Republic, when they finish their post, in most of the developed European countries have a life right to their house, sometimes they are houses, some residences, as we call them in a diplomatic language, sometimes they are offices. They definitely have the right to professional co-workers, to a smaller number of countries, and this should also apply to Slovenia, and others even have headquarters, and everyone has the right to protection because they are life-long presidents of the country, even though they no longer perform these functions. I don't know how many people in this room know that they exist in the world of former presidents' associations. They're organized among themselves, and they're meeting. And now that we don't admit to any former president, whoever this is, as colleague Misic said earlier, Milan Kučan or Janez Janša or the late Mr Pučnik, whoever is in that position, or Borut Pahor, when they meet, would probably offer to pay coffee himself. But it's not coffee anymore, people! They are getting around the world, this is also a ticket to be paid, he is invited as former president, a representative of our country of Slovenia to an international event, and this man cannot go to that international event. And these are the things I'm talking about, and I don't care what that man's name is. Do you have the feeling that we've gotten so bad that we're worse off than the Greeks right now or I'm gonna give it to the Spaniards and the Portuguese? No, we don't. They have no such proposals there, nor for other officials. None of their senior officials are substantially depriving them of their rights. I also agree and support in Positive Slovenia this reduction in pension, pays to some extent. But people, offices, guards, status! And then I hear it's 6,000, and I didn't even know it, 6,000 euros gross. Do you know who today has 6,000 euros in gross? Every health director at home has more. But that's the status in this country, that's the problem? If this, a colleague from SDS, is to be resolved, if you succeed, because the previous government, which I was in, has failed to settle, if you succeed, I will be the first to press this button and say, "Yes, that's what needs to be arranged." But who arranged such a mess?? Our president of the National Assembly who made this payroll system. Unfortunately! And then a colleague comes to me from the Citizen's List and says, "What are people going to say?" Do you know what people will say? Yeah, thank God, we're not in communism anymore, because these are the communist ideas that I'm hearing here that we all have to be the same. Like my colleague Kociprova said, "Well, we're all poor, but it'll be nice." Let us think about the whole thing and maintain dignity for those who truly deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you. Your Honor! In 1992, the first session of Parliament was chaired by the oldest Member of Parliament, Mr Andrej Šifrer, a kind gentleman of the Christian Democrats, who was perceived in public as a representative of the Belarusian political circles in Argentina. The former Head of the Communist Party of Slovenia and the President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, entered the Chamber. Mr Šifrer invited everyone to stand up and honor the President of the State. Both sides, both right and left, were surprised by his actions. And I couldn't be like a kid, young man, so I wouldn't ask him why he put himself in both sides. And he said to me, "Roman, a man who represents the highest position in this country has entered the institution of a democratic state, the President of the Republic has entered." And we should talk about this today, about the reputation of the President of the country and the reputation of the former President of the country, to whom you are actually lowering the situation in the country. That's why, of course, I'm saddened by the debate, the demagogos discussion, where terminology is already being used, that's when you want to get to the goal, you talk about privilege, the benefits. No, these are standards, these are the standards of this world. And these standards, these democratic standards we wanted, now we will soon celebrate, on Saturday, to join in this standard so many years ago. We also have the institution of the former President of the State, who is doing this and that with this institution. The tasks of former presidents, for example, if you take the said service vehicle, I am sure that it is not the purchase of a broom or other household needs, as Foreign Minister Rupel has done, but that this car will take this former President to an event where this President will say what he has to say to make use of his knowledge, experience and not least of contacts and acquaintances, that is when he goes abroad. And here were some comparative analyses of how this is arranged abroad. I even listened to one of the discussions on the committee, and I'm sorry that I wasn't a member and I couldn't discuss it there when you talked about it in Austria, that it wasn't special there. Of course not, because he has such a high fee that he pays his own office. Go to the former President of Austria, you won't find him on the road, in the inn. I don't know if you were watching a documentary about Václav Havel, who was asked how he would now, after the end of his term of office, and he said, "Like Milan Kučan, I'm going to be doing the work at the inn, and I'm going to carry with me all my paintings, handcuffed with all the statesmen and with all the powers of this world, and I'm going to be paid for this free drink." See, that's not what I want, I don't want to see President Danil Türk or any president in the employment office after one year. I'd be ashamed! I would be ashamed, as a citizen, that the President of the State, who gave something that had a limited mandate, must seek a job at the Employment Service. See, Mr Kučan, Mr Drnovšek and Mr Türk, who were very different presidents of this Republic and this country, have one common point. And this point is a conflict with the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. And I can't help but doubt that the argument from the vine is a mere cover for long-awaited revenge. But of course I hope that you will put me to a lie by voting and confirm the amendment of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have a procedural proposal that we will finally make. After Roman's speech, I propose to all Members and Members, if we respect the President's institution, both current and former, that we stop this debate because what is important is what Roman has told us, and that we do not work out of this even greater political confusion and demagogicism in this country.My procedural proposal is, given the time it is, when we are celebrating our country's birthday, that we no longer play this game about our former presidents and that we simply vote an amendment or reject it and that we are a little more dignified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Han, for your procedural proposal. You are therefore proposing that we give up the discussion further and that we then vote on the amendment in the framework of the vote and in this way send a report on the opinion on this proposed amendment and the amendment of the law. Given that time has not yet run out, and given Mr Matjaz Han's procedural proposal, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see that no one wants to discuss, so we are moving on to the next item in the agenda. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on functionaries in the state authorities after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The last of this package of functional laws is before us the Act on Officials in State Authorities. To begin with, given that it is not clear from the title itself, as was the case with the previous ones, who is covered by this law. This is the case with officials such as State Secretaries, Professional Mayors, Vice-Presidents, Secretary-General of the Ombudsman, Advisers to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Information Officer, President and Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the President of the Audit Commission. I would not like to repeat the reasons presented at the previous points. I would focus only on what is changing with this bill. This is a reduction in the remuneration from the previous 100 % base to 80%, then the retention of the previous three-month period of three months of remuneration, so this three-month period is maintained, and the control mechanisms are added as for all the other previously submitted laws when it comes to the abuse of receiving compensation. This is said to be because the official is employed after the end of his job or has income, yet he still receives compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u133	Once again, welcome, distinguished Members of Parliament and Members of State! At its 15th emergency meeting, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials in State Authorities, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. Like all the laws we have dealt with so far, it has also been published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 20. 11. 2012. The College of the President of the National Assembly then decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u134	I politely ask for a little more attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u135	Well, otherwise, colleagues can go out, and they can say a lot more. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, said in his supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed novels followed the legislative decisions already taken on the regulation of Members' rights after the end of their duties and would also contribute to a more prudent use of budgetary resources. In particular, the draft law provides the following solutions: the reduction in the amount of remuneration after the end of the term of office from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received by the official when he was in office, the possibility of extending the right to pay until the conditions for retirement are met, is reduced from 9 months to 6 months, the abolition of the right to pay if his office ceases before the expiry of 6 months of the mandate and so on. Since we've told you many times and things are repeating themselves, I don't want to do it again. Ms Nataša Voršič, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said in her presentation of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that their comments to Articles 2 and 3 were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled. However, she reiterated that it would be appropriate to adapt the law on public officials to the new legal order, since as officials it still defines those persons who were officials prior to the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and requires interpretation both of the entities to which it applies and of any further provisions to which it is specifically necessary to determine whether they are still applicable. Such a large scope of interpretation threatens the rule of law and legal certainty and is unacceptable in this respect. The representative of the National Council of State Council, Councillor Bogomir Vnučec, presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposed amendment. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The Committee then adopted the following decision: The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in conjunction with Article 1 of the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, gives the initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the Law on Officials in the State Authorities, by which the Law on Officials in the State Authorities would comply with the applicable legal order and send them to the National Assembly for adoption. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. I thank you for your attention, my colleague Brulco, and only so much so that the flag will definitely hang with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Once again, welcome, honourable Members and honourable Members and Secretary of State! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Officials in State Authorities now affects only one area, namely the rights of civil servants after their term of office. Amendments to the law are aimed at rational use of budgetary resources. The scope of rights belonging to public officials shall be reduced following the expiry of their functions, in the following ways. Firstly, the amount of the refund shall be reduced after the end of the term of office from 100 % to 80 % of the last salary received by the official when he was in office. In doing so, I should point out that there is a time to receive the refund unchanged, i.e. no more than 3 months from the end of the term of office. Secondly, the time limit for extending the right to compensation to meet the minimum age-retirement conditions shall be reduced from the previous 9 months to a maximum of 6 months. The right to compensation shall also be revoked if the official ceases to function before the expiry of 6 months of the mandate. The right to receive remuneration shall cease if, before the expiry of the period for which the remuneration is due to him, he becomes employed, engages in a gainful activity or meets the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension, without any reduction, as well as if he continues to perform his previous duties. The amount of the refund shall be reduced by the amount of the remuneration paid for the performance of the work at the time of receipt of the refund and shall be charged for the previous month. The amendments and additions to the Act on Officials in State Authorities shall coordinate the remuneration for officials with the remuneration of Members after the end of their term of office, as laid down in the last amendment to the Law on Members. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Officials in State Authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u139	All in attendance, all in attendance! This amendment to the Act was transmitted to the National Assembly in a package together with proposals for laws that have just been discussed and which have infringed on the rights to pay after the termination of their duties. This novelty is especially new, and we welcome it, in articles 15.a, 15.b, 15.c. These articles contain provisions relating to the return of unduely paid compensation if the official is in custody, incarcerated or incarcerated and unable to perform his duties, has no right to pay, to reimbursement of expenses relating to the performance of his duties and other benefits. This is the right way to save budgetary resources. The Social Democrats will support the amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! We continue with the amendments to the laws that have been considered relating to the rights and obligations of officials following the termination of their duties. The Act on Officials in State Authorities, one of the rare laws in force in the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted back in the time of Yugoslavia, still lays down the rights of certain officials. Among them, it sets out in particular the rights of those officials who are unable to return to their old place of employment after the end of office, have no new employment and do not meet the conditions for retirement. The law in force so far allows former officials to receive a compensation of 100 % of the last salary at the time of office for three months. This right may, however, be extended up to 9 months if it has met the conditions for retirement at that time. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that the refund should be reduced to 80% of the last salary and that, as so far as it has been, officials can receive it for three months, but after a new six months instead of the previous nine months, if they meet the conditions for retirement at that time. We also support the abolition of the refund if its function ends earlier than in six places and in some other cases, such as in the case of detention or imprisonment. In particular, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we point out that the various rights of officials between and after the end of the mandate, which is now governed by various sectoral laws in different ways and on different scales, must be reduced to one law. These rights are now governed by the Law on Members, the Law on Government, the Law on State Administration and probably more. Given that the area of public servants and the system of public sector wages are already regulated by a specific law, it would make sense that one law would systematically regulate the rights of both the loved and the designated professional and non-professional local and state officials, who would be so gathered in one place in a comprehensive and transparent manner. At the same time, we expect the Government to take into account in the preparation of the new law that the rights and obligations of officials must be regulated rationally, so that they are limited and appropriate to the current difficult economic situation, according to the purpose, duration and level of compensation and other rights. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will be waiting for a new comprehensive law on regulation of the rights and obligations of officials to be drawn up as soon as possible, and we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u143	Your Honor! This bill is also intended exclusively for a more prudent and transparent use of public funds. The Republic of Slovenia is currently in a difficult financial and economic situation and has therefore joined in assessing the need for changes and supplementing the legal arrangements for remuneration for officials. The act of office shall therefore include State secretaries, professional mayors and sub-districts, the Secretary-General of the Ombudsman, the Adviser to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Information Officer, the President and the Deputy Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the President of the State Election Commission. All those mentioned in the light of the savings made by the proposal for a law shall be reduced in the amount and period of receipt of the refund. The procedure for such compensations is strictly regulated and the law also regulates the procedure and sanctions in the event of possible abuses. The draft law follows the principles and objectives set out in more detail in the preceding paragraphs and, as has already been observed in previous stages of consideration, is not disputed at any point. The DeSUS Group follows the previous positions on support for this set of laws, and we will therefore also vote in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE MEASURES FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF DEFINITIVE AGRICULTURAL PLASSES OF THE BIG TERRITORY 2000 AND 2001 The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr Branko Ravnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members! At the end of 2000 and at the beginning of 2001, due to a longer rainy period with exceptional rainfall in the area of Slovenia, a large number of ground beaches were activated, among which the most resilient beach in the municipality of Bovec was certainly the most resilient beach in the region, as the devastating poultry flow of exceptional stratagem in addition to the great material damage also resulted in fatal casualties. In accordance with the legislation in force at that time, the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decided on the means to assist in the resolution of natural disasters by special law. The specific law also provided for beneficiaries, the method of use and allocation of these funds and the supervision of their use. Thus, a special intervention law was adopted to remedy the consequences of the beach of the Stože in the municipality of Bovec and the beaches of a greater extent created in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia after 15 October 2000. During the period of validity of this specific law, emergency intervention measures were carried out to stabilise the situation in the affected area and defined criteria for the determination of large-scale beaches, as well as the preparation of framework recovery programmes for the gradual management of the affected areas. In addition to the beach, the Castles were activated and in accordance with the criteria set out in this process, also known as the beaches of a larger size as the beach of Slano mud, the beach of Macesnik, the beach of Podmark, the beach of Strug and the beach of Gradište and Šmihel. All these reptiles in the Primorska area. A poor half of the funds provided by the law, EUR 16.8 million, were provided and an extension of the law was proposed in 2005 to include 2010. During this period 2006-2010, the provision and use of resources was not followed by an assessment of the necessary resources, based on the programmes prepared to remedy the consequences, but the implementation of the works and the annual programmes had to be adjusted to the available resources at annual level. A total of EUR 34.5 million was made available. However, as terrestrial reptiles are a dynamic phenomenon and depend mainly on precipitation conditions, the volume of land in motion increases over time, thus requiring additional measures and additional resources. We estimate that the work done so far significantly reduces the level of human hazard and property in these areas and that the final level of safety will only be ensured by the implementation of all of the planned arrangements and facilities in each affected area of the beach. For this reason and in particular with a view to ensuring security in affected areas, preventing the spread and establishment of larger-scale beaches and harmonising with existing legislation, taking into account budget options, we propose the adoption of an amendment to the law by extending the duration of the provision of funds under the state budget to 2020 and providing the necessary means for the implementation of the planned remedial measures. The additional funds currently estimated are EUR 37 million. However, individual solutions and planned actions will need to be re-examined in terms of professional adequacy and efficiency prior to the award of public procurement and implementation, taking into account the current situation in the individual affected area of the beach and also the monitoring of the movements of the beach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Zvonk Lah, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u147	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, as a parent working body, considered the draft law at its 16th regular meeting. 12. 2012. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Services participated in the meeting of the Committee. A written opinion was sent to the Committee by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments on the article of the bill. These comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and also adopted by the Committee. At the meeting of the Committee, the President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development presented the opinion of the Commission, which supported the bill with some comments. There was no debate on the proposal for legislation at the Committee's meeting and the Committee did not adopt its amendments, as it said, and the Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups included in the amended bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u148	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko. There has been a change, the position will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u149	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendments to the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Certain Large-Term Land Plazas 2000 and 2001 relate to the extension of the law in work, which lays down the time limits for the provision of funds from the State budget and the implementation of the planned measures for the rehabilitation of the seven large beaches. It is proposed to extend the deadlines up to and including 2020. We do not oppose the proposed law in the Positive Slovenia Group, as it is necessary for the smooth financing and continuation of works at the rehabilitation of certain large beaches in the country. At the same time, this proposal demonstrates the fatherly attitude of the State towards this issue and the absence of any strategy. From the dynamics of current funding, it has been clear for a long time that these beaches will not be remediable within the envisaged deadlines. On the other hand, climate change brings us an ever-increasing number of extreme weather events, the consequences of which are different forms of natural disasters. There are reptiles among them. We will have to adjust to weather conditions, and we will also be able to deal with their consequences. In a more or more intense form, we are likely to witness them every year. However, we will also need to take preventive action to minimise and manage damage when caught. It is therefore essential that the country immediately adopt a comprehensive strategy and action plan. At the same time, planning for action at these events must not be the first step, but rather a preventive approach. Prevention means continuous investment in measures to prevent and mitigate damage. In the short term, it brings additional costs, and in the long term, it is definitely a cheaper solution for society. Your Honor! We can continue to do what we have done so far, and each year we will look with fear at weather forecasts, gaze into the sky, and then save the consequences of natural disasters, as we do with the beaches. More and more resources will be needed and the periods of rehabilitation will be longer and each more will be in front of the National Assembly, proposals for laws extending the deadlines. But we can start thinking in full, and that's how we deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The coalition's political parties have written down in the coalition contract that much concern will be given to regulating space in flood and repulsive areas. The Act on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Certain Large-Scale Ground Beaches 2000 and 2001 was adopted to provide funding for the implementation of measures to remedy the consequences, to prevent the spread and establishment of Earth's beaches in the municipalities of Bovec, Ajdovščina, Solčava, Šempeter, Vrtojba, Kobarid and Nova Gorica. The law was amended in 2005 when the necessary funds were identified to EUR 45 million and the extension to 2010. However, the annual programmes and the available resources have been adapted all the time. This amounts to only 37% of the estimated, needed resources or slightly less than €17 million of the state budget allocated and spent during that period. In 2011 and 2012, only some necessary maintenance works were carried out at Macesnik beach and Slano mud. It was not possible to achieve the objectives and purposes of the laws adopted in the past with the funds provided and spent during that period. It is imperative to extend the validity of the adopted law by providing the necessary means for the implementation of the remedial measures. The main solution to legislative changes is to extend the deadline for the provision of funds and the implementation of planned measures, including in 2020. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia provides for €2.5 million for 2013 and €3 million for 2014. The law will allow for the continuous implementation of remedial measures in large-scale beach areas, thereby preventing the direct threat to the lives and property of citizens. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List and Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u153	Nicely greeted! The aim of the amendments to the law is to ensure that measures to prevent the spread of large-scale beaches from 2000 and 2001 continue smoothly. Of course, it is regrettable that in the past period the provision of funds did not follow the actual needs on the ground. On the other hand, a State spatial act has not yet been adopted for Macesnik and Bad Mud. The extension of the recovery period and the increase in the level of climbing also increases the volume of resources needed for recovery in these two areas. In the Civil Gazette, we will support changes in the law and at the same time call on the competent ministries to give priority to the activities relating to the documentation for the rehabilitation of these beaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats and Mags is next. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u155	Mr President, dear Members and Members, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, nice greeting! We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. The obligations of the State to people must also be fulfilled. It would be better if the dynamics of the funds were different, not that the bulk of the funds would be planned when these coalitions are no longer available. You put the burden on someone else again, and then we'll have to fix it, but we support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Jakob Preseknik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In any case, there is yet another law before us that not only eliminates the consequences of natural disasters, which is good, but unfortunately the little less good is that the matter is being dragged on too long or that we are renewing the deadline to remedy these consequences. We have in Slovenia, and we have also been tasked at that time with the task of saving these seven largest reptiles with a special law – this was in 2000, 2001 – given that these reptiles are of great scale. Given that the funds were not provided at a sufficient level and also for other technical reasons, in many cases the rehabilitation of these reptiles has shifted. This led to the adoption of the first amendment of this Act or the extension of the deadline, including the increased resources, since in the meantime it was shown that there was a greater need for remedial measures. This time, as it is said, we are renewing the deadline even until 2020 and we are increasing or planning the appropriate means for the comprehensive rehabilitation of these beaches, the amount for which the professional services will certainly assess that it is the right one. In doing so, we must say, given that some of these reptiles have also been accompanied by various non-functions, but that in Slovenia we certainly have excellent specialists to solve these biggest beaches, some of these reptiles have successfully protected to the point that they do not drift anymore. This does not mean that the final rehabilitation of these beaches is not necessary and that in the event that we do not finish these rehabilitations, in some cases there may also be some catastrophe, or at least some of the streams, or even worse, of all settlements and individual facilities, as well as transport and other infrastructures. Individuals are disadvantaged by these reptiles or are being extended to their centers where they live. And also because of the people in these different areas, something has to be done. As I said before, we have excellent experts in this area, they only need to be engaged, they need to be made available in the budgets in the coming years and the matter will be settled. In my opinion, however, it is necessary to check whether it is possible to obtain the European Bank's favourable resources for these rehabilitations or even to include them in European cohesion funds. That is why I expect the government and the competent ministry to check this possibility. As we say, in the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All right, everybody, welcome! The basic objective of the amendment is to ensure permanent safety for the population in the affected areas, to prevent the spread of beaches and to achieve the establishment of terrestrial beaches, so that action to prevent the spread of large-scale beaches continues uninterruptedly over the next financial years. Thus, the main solution is to amend the law in order to extend the deadline for the provision of funds and the implementation of the planned measures, including in 2020. During that period, implementing documentation should be drawn up for the construction of the planned measures, land purchases, building permits and permits for interventions in the premises, the construction of stabilisation facilities, bridges, the implementation of rigs, deep and surface drainage arrangements, embankments, landfills and landscapes of affected areas. The planned provision in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 amounts to EUR 2 million 500 000 and EUR 3 million 500 000 for 2014. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group support the proposal of the law, because we believe that after more than 10 years, it is time for the larger beaches to be rehabilitated, thereby allowing permanent security for residents in the plaza area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 9th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u161	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We're moving to the polls, so please check your cards. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u162	Your Honor! In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I request you to rest for half an hour at the request of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u163	Before the first vote, we will do so, Mr Möderndorfer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to start with a point, and before we vote, if there's any other explanation, you have the right to explain your vote first. We are therefore continuing with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act. We're moving to third reading. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so that we can move on to a decision on the bill. There's no discrepancy either. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, then at the request of the Head of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, I interrupt the meeting, which will be resumed at 2.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u164	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Möderndorfer to explain or explain the outcome of the consultation in the parliamentary group. Good. Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, all 73 voted against. (The vote was 73.)(Nobody.) I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Auditors. We're moving to third reading. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, nor are there any inconsistencies, so we can move on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. (For the vote was 47.)(Nobody.) I note that the law has been adopted and the agenda item has been concluded. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions We are moving on to the third hearing and we are deciding on a proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. (For the vote was 78.)(Nobody.) I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes We are moving on to the third reading of the bill and we are deciding on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. (For the vote was 78.)(Nobody.) I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court of Third dealing with and deciding on a proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. (For the vote was 56.)(Nobody.) I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman of the Third, which deals with and decides on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. (For the vote was 49.)(Nobody.) I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of the conditions for the exercise of office as President of the Republic We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of 19. 12. 2012. This is the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 5. We'll decide on this amendment. Ms Maša Kociper has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Chairman. We are voting on the amendment of our parliamentary group, according to which the right to one former president should be preserved in Article 20, and everything else for all future presidents should be deleted. We would like to say that in Positive Slovenia we agree that the rights of officials are limited, as is done at all levels, although savings in the presidency of the Republic are indeed negligible. However, we would like to point out that this is a fairly disproportionate intervention in this function, not only does the compensation decrease, but the right to office and administrative assistance is also abolished, from five years to one year and is also completely abolished as an infringement of the acquired pension benefits. We believe that this is an unacceptable intervention in the function of the directly elected highest representative of our country. The Constitutional Court has already stated that infringements of the rights acquired are permitted under certain conditions. These conditions are already known, and I have talked about them many times. One condition is urgency and proportionality. I don't think we can agree that for our country and for its economic situation and its financial situation to intervene in this right - just about the rights of one former president, I stress that the speech is necessary - the state will not fail because of this. As I explained, this intervention is not proportionate. And if we look at another weighting in this acquired right, whether public interest or public benefit justifies intervention in this right. The answer, I think it's clear again. It is a minimum savings, and 14,000 euros a year would be saved by the state, as it said, to the highest political representative. That is why we think in Positive Slovenia that it is again some unnecessary ideological accounting, the argument that we are comparing all officials with this, we cannot listen, you have adopted the law in due time that you, also for President Türk, have done the same for the last president and for all future rights. However, the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that this is one right which has been established back by law based on a legislative decision and which requires special regulation. The special arrangement used in such customs in law is to maintain the right to continue in the same state as it was. You, of course, have been known for reasons only to you, but we can all think of them, go to a different extreme and you have abolished this right. We ask you to correct this amendment and to assure our President of the country, the first President, whoever it is, this dignity and the exercise of this right, as it was given by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u166	Anybody else want some? In my own name. There's quite a bit of interest, but we'll go our separate ways. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, then Mr Jerko Čehovin, then Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The president is the president, whoever he is. The president is ours, all Slovenes and Slovenes. And what you're doing today, you're not doing it for savings, you're doing it for Milan Kučan. And that's a fact. You're sharing people. And what happens on the street when they ask us not to do it, it doesn't help you. No, keep going, because because it's not from that option of yours, you're gonna do what you do. The only thing you can take from him is the name of the former president. You do that, and you will erase it forever, according to your assessment of our history.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u168	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you. This country was not created on bayonets and cannons, it was built on respect for human rights. That's why it always hurts when we retroactively interfere with human rights. Especially when this is clearly going to ad to persons when they want to reduce the importance and role of the first president of a single country. Then we wonder why they don't see the flag at State holidays, why people are gathering and telling us we don't know where we are. We are not aware that the proclamation of our common past as something to be rejected is nothing more than confirmation that we have declared ourselves a political alien tomorrow, which will be spit out by people's crowds tomorrow. That's why I'm going to support the amendment because I respect and want to respect human rights yesterday, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u170	Mr. Roman Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u171	President, thank you for your word. Look, in your desire to be liked, this temple of democracy is actually going too far and going in the wrong direction too far. In his morning debate today, which unfortunately did not accompany many Members and Members, he spoke about President Vaclav Havel's statement asking him what he would do when he was no longer president. And he almost answered prophetically — that was a documentary on television — that he would be like Milan Kučan. To go to the inn, he will carry with him all his paintings of handshakes and meetings with the highest representatives and the most influential representatives of this world and will receive free drinks for the rest of his life. I don't want not to be the first, not the second, not the third – unfortunately the second is dead – not the third, not the fourth, not the seventh, the twenty-two president was ever in a position to have a free drink at the inn because he couldn't have his own place. The Institute of the President and the former President of the Republic should be some standard that this country has, like the analogue countries, the democratic countries of this world. In this appeal, we go so far as to have once stopped the state funeral of officials, and it seems to me that this is a little too much. People will not reward this likeness, which goes in the opposite direction, but they will reward the self-confidence of the policy, which will know that the Institute is the President of the country and the former President, with all the obligations involved, something that is part of a democratic standard and a developed country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u172	Mag. Dejan Židan, then Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I'll support this amendment myself. I'm terrified to hear how we're breaking down Slovenia by breaking down the symbols. We must be aware, too, of you, the honourable Member, who waves with his hands that the President of the State is directly elected. All you see in front of you is a cloth called Mr. Milan Kučan, and you don't like it. Some others think it is a gentleman who has done a great deal for this country. But it's irrelevant. We are talking about the institution, we are talking about the institution of the President of the country, which is the highest institution – tomorrow will be the arrest of the new President of the country – and you are deliberately decommissioning it. This is an ideological measure, but as a basis you use saving in the wrong way. I expect those of you who say in the coalition that there will be no ideological action, even in this case, to vote like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u174	Mr. Mirko Brulc, then Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u175	Your Honor! The former president of the country is still the president. And as our relationship with the former President - I am not speaking of a name - this is the reputation of this country in democratic European and other countries. Do we want the former president of the state to look for his own parking space when he comes to the party, look for room in the hall, or can someone do that for him? For example, I would like to give the practice introduced by Parliament Speaker Borut Pahor at the time of Jože Pučnik's death. Beyond the protocol, beyond all regulations, rules of procedure, and I don't know what he ordered, there was a unfortunate meeting in the National Assembly. And justifiably - because it's an extraordinary person. Today, dear colleagues and colleagues, you are doing something completely different. You're also starting with chandeliers in this area. You're with the pensioners, the partisans, everyone else, now it's the former presidents of the state. Please try to overcome this negativity to support this amendment and not to embarrass ourselves before all of Europe. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The Slovenian people will write their own judgment. When deciding for his own country the Republic of Slovenia, he also received the first President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan. Even today, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia respect Mr Milan Kučan very much, regardless of ideological belief. And today, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, as has already been said many times in the debate, it is a shame that we are even discussing this. The birth of the State of Slovenia connected Slovenia and Slovenia and the voted plebiscite proved this. And it is not right to inform the Slovenian public and the world public that, in any way in doubt, the respect and reputation of the first President of the Republic of Slovenia are being degraded and we express our concerns about how respectable a man is Mr Milan Kučan. I propose that we all vote on the amendment together and that we no longer discuss it. History says that the first President of the Republic of Slovenia was one person, a known person, with a name and surname. And today it is the only former President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Danilo Türk, among the still living, I speak, so it is a shame and I am sad and worried about what not only Slovenian media think of us today, but also world media. This is not right, and this is not good for the history of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat, then Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the amendment of Positive Slovenia. There are two fundamental reasons for this. First time. I object to interfering with the rights already acquired, this is at the level of law. Secondly, because each sovereign state also has its own representatives and the institution of the President of the State, when the presidents of the country may be in the future, it is the one that strengthens confidence and represents the sovereign state on the outside. She's confident that she can and can give credit for her back. But the merits are people, not political elites. And it seems to me that those who have received support in direct elections once or twice, often cannot, because they cannot run more than once, it is only right that we give them that recognition and credit back. It seems scandalous to me that we are discussing monetary savings with very important and symbolic things. It is no wonder that we are what we are, that we often discuss our own littleness because it is on such issues that greatness or smallness appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u180	Mr. Matjaž Han, then Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. If we do not respect the institutions of the State in this National Assembly, then I do not know who will respect these institutions. I have already put forward in the debate a procedural proposal not to discuss this issue, that Milan Kučan did not deserve this either, to discuss the person of Milan Kučan. Today we are discussing the institution of the President of the State or former President of the State. In a hundred years, ladies and gentlemen, that's what I said on the Mandate-Election Commission, we're going to have a maximum of twenty former presidents of the country. And if these twenty people, the twenty presidents of the country, who have been elected directly, do not deserve one, not a privilege, some dignity, then the state of Slovenia does not need. I was sad today when I wanted to send a New Year's card in writing to three chambers and I gave it to the secretary to send me through the National Assembly. Do you know what they said to me in the National Assembly? That I cannot send three congratulations, President of the Committee on the Economy, to the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Industry. "You can't because we have savings!" Mr Virant, yes, of course, you have led to this that I cannot send cards, if any of my Members have died, I could not send one party, not to speak any further. Please, dear colleagues, we are talking about things, we are talking about Slovenia. So I propose that we no longer discuss and vote on this amendment of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u182	Mr. Han, we're gonna have to talk about this separately, because I don't know anything about any ban on sending cards. So we can talk about this at the College or on some other occasion. Ms Janja Klasinc has the floor to explain her voice and then Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u183	Colleagues and colleagues, I have already said in the morning part of the debate that, although I am a certain leftist, I am very sorry that Slovenia has not yet had such a typical right-wing president of the country. If we had it, we might have a little bit more understanding among our coalition colleagues today about what we're talking about. Maybe we're too limited to those lefts and rights, and we can't see through that. But in fact, look, we are calling for you, and that is why I will support this amendment, because this is really about the institution of the President of the country, the President of all Slovenians and Slovenes, of all citizens of Slovenia. I'd like to remind you of what I've been talking about this morning. We are not comparable to this solution with the countries of the European Union, nor with our neighbouring countries, which are not members of the European Union. Most of the countries of the European Union have standards, and these established standards are that when someone ceases to be President of the Republic, the President of the Republic will remain for the rest of his life, for life, and he will have certain attributes, assistance, administrative assistance, security, a certain space — until his death. And we've evaluated all of this. Please, we are already at the minimum of all the regulations in the current legislation, and now we are reducing that. Please, let us maintain our dignity, if not for us, Members, if not for ministers, at least for the presidents of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u184	And Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u185	I will vote in favour of this amendment for one simple reason, because I am sure that everyone in this country, no matter how much politics we are interested in or not, we have our political views or we have the right to be so defined, whatever the case. However, whoever comes into office as President of the State works for the benefit of the state. Since I stick to the principle, if you don't value yourself, then you won't be appreciated by any of the others, I abide by this rule that if we don't know how to appreciate it, no one will appreciate it. And I ask you kindly, under these flags and this coat of arms, will be sworn by the new President, the newly elected President, and we will tell him in advance by adopting such a legislative amendment how valuable he is. I hope that we will not have this attitude towards all the presidents forward. I think we need to stop this and show honor to the institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u186	We will therefore decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 5. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 38 votes against 37. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment was accepted. I note that, in the second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 5 of the amended law, so I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. There are no amendments to the proposal for a third-reading law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies, so we are coming to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Officials in the Third Authorities. We'll decide on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] The law is adopted and the agenda item is closed. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Certain Ground Plazas of a Larger Scope 2000 and 2001 following a Shorter Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We decide on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on evaluation and recognition of education. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 73 votes against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of the review of 18. 12. We decide on the amendment of Article 8 of the Social Democrats' Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u187	The Group of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment proposing the deletion of Article 8 of the Law on Higher Education. Yesterday we had a broad debate, but there was also a lot of misleading talk in the debate, also that it was actually a very short period of direct pedagogical commitment, to say once again that it was a very important change because this change affected the number of jobs that were structured. If the number of weekly direct pedagogical work obligations increases, fewer jobs are enabled. This also affects the employment opportunities of young people capable of allowing for a greater amount of lax work, which is one way or another, but if it is not possible to convince someone that the difference between whether the weekly pedagogical obligation is six hours, or if it is written in the law that the weekly obligation is between five and seven hours, we suggest that they ask for help from a primary school student because they are above average in mathematics, and by concluding an account they would be shown that such a difference in the pedagogical obligation per week has important consequences for themselves. I really suggest that you recalculate this because it is misleading and very unconvincing and irresponsible that the top representatives of the ministry, who should act in the interest of quality higher education, support solutions and minimise those opposition proposals, especially the higher education and professional trade unions, and fail to see that the increase in the number of students per teacher is linked or correlated with the quality of the educational process. I hope that you will see that this is an important decision and that, if not already the opposition, you will listen to the professions, the higher education spheres, and in particular that you may listen to those most affected by such action. These are students and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u188	We therefore vote on the amendment of Article 8 of the Social Democrats' Group. There are 81 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the proposal. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We decide on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of 19. 12. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 10. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 6. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 10 of the amended bill. I'm asking qualified candidates. do they intend to submit an amendment to this Article for third reading? No, no, no. We're moving to third reading. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you. We will vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the excise law that we are adopting. While we have tried to point out in the debate in the National Assembly that, however, in the third reading, qualified applicants could table an amendment, but this amendment would only make sense at a time when at least part of the coalition would agree to eliminate the serious interference in the status of those living in rural areas, to a large extent and specifically those working in agriculture. This excise duty law will actually allow the government to decide on its own whether, instead of a 70 % refund on fuel, this amount will fall to only 54%, as explained yesterday by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Given that years ago, with many professional and very open dialogues with all the institutions representing the interests of farmers, we were able to achieve an increase in excise duty in the amount of 70%, this law cancels, decreases. This will certainly have a bearing on rural development and the conservation of rural settlements, and especially on the status of all those involved in agriculture. And let's not forget, Slovenian farmers have a number of mechanisms, so their energy costs are not small, so we will also vote against this law for this explicit reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-20-SDZ6-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 8. (The vote was 73.)(against 8.) I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. 12. Amendments to Article 1 first. First of all, we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. If this is adopted, then the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to the same article becomes irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the amendment of the Coalition's sent groups to Article 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] The amendment was accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. In the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 1 and I therefore ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to the third reading. No, no, no. Since neither the amendment has been tabled nor the amendment has been announced, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 30. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, which is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. We will decide on the proposal to appoint members to the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. The government is by letter of 12. 12. 2012 She proposed to the National Assembly that she appoint to the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition Mr. France Pušenjak and Mr Simon Tantegel. The Government's proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body. The mandate-holder committee shall report in writing to the National Assembly and submit proposals for conclusions. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mr France Pušenjak as a member of the Board of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. In doing so, I would like to remind you, on a procedural basis, that, in accordance with Article 12b, paragraph 5, of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members present vote for it. This is a special type of majority that we do not have in the rules of procedure, only in this law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Furthermore, the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Simon Tantegel as a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. You need the same majority. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present, for 62, against no one. [[It was 62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Following is a proposal for the election of candidates for judicial office at the courts of district judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office, namely in the court seat of two District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We also invited a representative of the Council of Justice, but he apologized. The proposal was also addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and also made a written report to the National Assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I give my first decision to the vote. This is the decision to elect the Magi. Marjetke Urbančič to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 78, against no one. [[It was 78 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And then there's the second conclusion. This is the decision on the election of Ms Katarina Cvelbar to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 77, against no one. [[It's 77 votes.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications. On Monday and Tuesday this week, we held a second reading of that bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly decided, on a proposal from the Government, to hold a third hearing on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure at that meeting. We do not have any amendments to the draft law on third reading. I wasn't informed of any discrepancies either. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, for 73, for 3. [[It was 73 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the fostering activity. We also had a second hearing here on Monday and Tuesday. Since the amendments were adopted, we have decided to hold a third hearing at the same meeting. In the third reading, we do not have any amendments tabled, no notice of non-compliance, and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes in favour, none against. [[It's 81 votes.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and also on the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you, thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow at an extraordinary session.
