ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's session cannot be attended: Mag. Melita Župevc, Janja Klasinc, Roberto Battelli and Jakob Preseknik. Nicely greeted! We continue the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance, urgent procedure. We stayed at Article 1. We continue the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1. Since yesterday, there have been several other Members and Members of Parliament who have been invited to the debate. The first word is Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, welcome to the end of this hard work week! Initially, yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that Slovenia is stepping in the path of a new development paradigm where greater responsibility for development will be established. And this was an opportunity to hear from the largest coalition party, the party for which we will well remember how strongly she assisted in the destruction of the systemic reforms prepared by the Borut Pahor government. Is it really necessary to repeat this to you that if systemic reforms were to be carried out last year, it would not be necessary to upset our people with such sharp austerity measures and tighten their belt? Why in the SD Group we oppose this savings package – because it is misdirected. We have also stressed and realized that certain savings need to be made, and have also offered a proposal on how to make these savings, although of course you are conscientiously denying it. The fact is, we wanted to build these savings in a way [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President, can you silence your colleagues and colleagues? They really bother me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Yes, I'd like you to listen to your colleague and calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u4	that we have adjusted our programme by balancing the savings part by investing in development and by ensuring social security. [[...]] Indeed, we must not forget what is actually the cause of this situation in which we are living. We just lost the historical memory. [[...]] Who caused this crisis? Banks and excessive debt to the economy! Who was the first to solve this crisis? The country, the state sector and the burden of this now want to divide mainly into the most sensitive ones. That's the truth of it. The imbalance of this package that you are preparing is reflected to the greatest extent in the anti-development attitude. The sector under which you are most affected is the education and development sector. The fact is that, as academics warn you, by this slogan of saving in this sector, in which Slovenia has significantly increased investment in our mandate, realizing that this is actually a better option of getting out of the crisis and restructuring our economy, we have increased investment to 2.49% of GDP, while the current investments are falling to 2.13% – we have not calculated everything yet. The fact is that with these measures, especially in the area of higher education, I must agree here with Dr. Year, destroy the critical mass of those who think in our society and establish a private education system. I'm very sad that the fronts of this system are exactly two doctors of science from public universities. To continue, we have stressed that the package is unbalanced. Although you keep referring to the fact that the package will not harm the most vulnerable, I will refer to yesterday's words by Mr Jazbec and Mrs Hercegovac – do you realize what we will do with intervention in public health? This is the part of the package that will most affect the most vulnerable and, of course, also indicates the direction of future health reforms. Let's start with Article 2. In the second article, you reduce the contribution of compulsory health insurance funds to the provision of health services. This automatically means transfer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u5	My apologies, colleague Črnak Meglič, we are discussing Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1, not the other. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Yeah, it's all in general. I'm talking about health. I'm talking about health.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u7	We'd like to stick to the article we're discussing, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u8	Look, we didn't stick to it last night either. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Yes, but today we will. I'm sorry, but today we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Really? But you're changing that according to who's saying what?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u11	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Then we should have stopped our colleagues yesterday, too. I'm sorry, Mr President, I strongly protest, and I want you to be in charge of everyone equally. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Look, yesterday there was no case of anyone discussing a different article than the one that was on the table in the debate, at least not when I led the meeting. There was no such case. If you were, you could have warned me. So I would really like to ask you to stick to Article 1 because we are discussing it. Otherwise, we have nothing left of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u14	and Article 1 thereof. [[...]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are talking about all — as many as there are now — 39 laws, including the Health Insurance Act. If you don't mind, I'll continue. This procedure puts an increased burden on supplementary health insurance. The White Paper on Health, written by Dr. Keber, has made it very clear that it is due to the complementary health insurance that Slovenia is one of the countries with the least fair health system in the world, and that – we have now also found in the material prepared by Umar – that the proportion of voluntary health insurance is increasing before this change is introduced, now this share will increase further. Who's the biggest burden? The greatest burden falls on the poor. That is said, instead of €24, the premiums will pay €28. That means 8% in their income and 1% in our income – right? That's the difference, that's what we're talking about, so we're saying it's falling for the poorest. Second change. Reduction of benefits during the hospital. It is true that you have reached a compromise with the unions at two important points, but I welcome this, but it is important to know that 80% of the compensation for the hospital is for ordinary diseases that we are living with ordinary mortals. The fact is that abstention in Slovenia, as in all countries facing the crisis, is a major problem, we are in fifth place after abstention. Only the way we deal with solving this problem is wrong. We fly it in a way that reduces compensation, and we know that one of the key problems in our country is becoming presentationism, that is, the presence of sick, weakened people in the workplace before they survive the disease. Experts offer you a way to solve this acute social problem; yet – no! We are looking at the measures that will again fall the poorest, the ones that will not be able to afford to lose another 10% of their monthly income. Second point. It is also unbalanced from the point of view of the load of the medium layer. I never thought that we would talk to Mr Primac so unanimously about the anti-social policy of this government. The fact is, this policy is the anti-social and the greatest burden of the crisis, I will say, among the social groups it has passed on to young families. That's right. Here, too, you have reached compromises, and we welcome them, in particular, the compromise which I hope has also been made on the basis of our intervention, so that the highest maternity rate does not interfere with 1.5% of the average wage. However, it is not a country in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, which would choose family policy as an arsenal on which to make savings. So I would like to ask once again if we could all reconsider whether we could accept further amendments. I would like to draw attention to the amendment of Positive Slovenia, which says that for at least one year the implementation of the measures will be suspended and, on the other hand, whether it is really necessary to reduce the refund at the time of parental leave until the gross domestic product rises to 2.5%. With this measure, which was originally planned as a temporary measure, you last at least for the medium term, and believe me, I am almost certain that we will not return to 100% of the maternity allowance. Interesting. Comparing when we talk about the burdens of individual social strata. The proposal proposed by the Group of Social Democrats of the Member States said that income should be increased for those who receive more than €60,000. You have raised this limit to nearly 70,000 euros and thus lost 25 million. That 25 million would almost be enough to avoid lowering the maternity rate. Do you realize that? It's this trade off between social strata, among social groups. And don't tell me again how tall and the highest we have in labor! We have one of the lowest wages! These low wages are paid by women's parents and you will be harmed in the first year of your life by taking away the universal right that Slovenia has – for the middle layer – for more than thirty years. Let's keep going. I'm glad you met your brains at Article 169. In the night session, members of the opposition, in particular with colleague Matev, revealed to you your blitzkrieg strategy. I can't help feeling that you acted on the system, as our former Serbian brothers would say, "if it passes, it passes, if it doesn't pass, it doesn't pass." We have warned you about what this means; we have warned you that you are actually misleading and that you are accepting reform through agreement and social communication, and we have said in good faith that you should be smart and withdraw yourself. Well, see, the next day you could've pulled that off when the union told you. Unquestionably your development strategy is wrong, it is a neoliberal doctrine, which, of course, builds on the formula of saving. But you know, this neoliberal doctrine is being confirmed in the world with all the negative consequences. Here we have a whole bunch of articles, tables showing that in the countries of Portugal, Spain, Greece and Italy, it has no effect, but it has effects: on increasing the risk of poverty, on increasing unemployment, on increased social distribution, and not on reviving economic growth. Already, the wise man once said, "The ruling ideology is the ideology of the ruling class." Who was that? Look at Google. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Mr. Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u16	Good day to you all. We got off to a bad start again, so I don't know how to say it. I would say that this crisis – yesterday I was talking about archaeology, but still this crisis was like a catalyst that accelerated some processes. This was useful for us to come to our country, but we were united at the time, and we were able to come to this, but today something seems to me because I am not so badly taught that we eat each other without connection, rather than being as compatible as we were at that time to take these measures as soon as possible. [[...]] In our contacts with people, we observe that they are understandingly taking these steps. Our leader, when he spoke on these regional visits, received a round of applause, even though he spoke black things, but people understand these things differently. It's actually very simple, given the state I'm in. I remember when this crisis started to occur, and I asked some lady economist what to do when such a crisis occurred. She told me the credit cards were locked, the money was squandered, and the bread was baked at home. However, in the context of the consideration of this law, which also touches health care in these 45 others, I would like to comment a little on the thinking of my colleague, the respected Mrs Hercegovec, who is afraid of the breakdown of the health system. In the old days, about 4% of GDP was allocated to health care, and now I think we are giving almost once more. I think that health care will have to do something about it, even though I hope that the ethical drive in health workers is still working, so that, in fact, direct users will not be affected. But it is true that we are now an ever-older population, that we increasingly need drugs, that drugs are getting better and more expensive, and that we also have these apparatus that are increasingly sophisticated and even more expensive. Again, this may be a challenge for health care to reorganize itself so that everyone does not take care of everything. I have information that at some hospital one apparatus was packed in the original packaging for over a year because they didn't know how to use it. This is gonna change a little bit. I am more in favour of giving more advantage to the equipment than to the walls – I think there are also some constructions on the issue that burden this part. Still, I would have touched on this fear of the collapse of public health because there is always the impression that public health is only what is in health homes and concessionaires are the losers who are earners and who steal. Concessionists are also part of public health, but the part that milks poor citizens is in a large minority. Let me mention some information from the ZZS. When we signed the contracts, those responsible there said that the concessionary doctor was 30% cheaper than the doctor at the health care centre and that they would like to see if they were all concessionaires. So much for a start, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Mrs. Sasha Kos. Mag. He's a duke. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u18	It's a replica. Thank you very much, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I was told by my colleague Vasla about the breakdown of the health system. I certainly didn't use it that way; but there will be no more public health care like we've had before, that's true. My colleague Vasle has been a concessionaire for a long time, which means he's partly a private person, and he's looking the other way. I'm sure it won't be a big change for health workers, but for patients and for people, there will be big changes. We must maintain the health system at least at this level as we now have it. Given the investments we have, we're not going to be able to keep it. This means that patients and people will have to spend more money on health care. That's the point, pal Vasle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I have been protesting against the abolition of the rights we are proud of since the first day of our independence. You made the biggest cut in the field of culture and science and higher education, especially because you abolished the Ministry of Culture. As we know, whatever is abolished, it never comes back or loses itself in a crowd of other activities, and everyone then supports the one closest to it. We also know that a minister, whoever he is in any area, is not some kind of superman who would know himself in all areas, but is defined by what is closest to him. So we kind of pushed away the culture; the culture that keeps us, which has kept us through all the history that we are here today. So we are independent and, as I have already said, proud of our independence. So you shut down the Ministry. By means of a rebalance, you are taking funds for NGOs in the field of culture and for self-employed people in culture. Force them to create national celebrations free of charge, without a fee, and at the same time limit and monitor who else could work in the field of culture through copyright contracts. How does that work, for example, in the theater? This regularly employs actors and all the other staff who co-create performances only exceptionally. In Slovenia, only three directors are regularly employed in public theatres. But as experts say, there is nothing wrong with this, as cooperation with a larger range of directors can bring a more diverse program, as well as a broader set of thoughts, which are deliberately or unintentionally embedded in every play that we watch anywhere: either in the theatre or in the opera or anywhere. This is how directors conclude author contracts, which is logical because they do copyright work or intellectual work. Such contracts are also concluded by scenographers and by costume designers and by many others, who, with their knowledge and creativity, contribute to the final image of the show. My dears, imagine a lightman who would hire someone or a lightman under the copyright contract and give his consent to the minister. Please! The minister is now supposed to be dealing with any individual who will perform in a very strict professional institution! I think every minister here has three of them present, much more responsible work than then to sign these contracts that I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ministerial assembly! It is true that we have before us a mega law that interferes with 39 laws, and I am glad that the serious political partners, including union partners and within serious parts of politics and society, have reached a strong consensus that these interventions are necessary. As a politician, I am also aware that the National Assembly will have to fall into a number of laws in the future before our public finances are fully recovered before our society is truly firmly grounded in development. This law creates only the necessary conditions for us to be here, on our own soil, as before Europe, and to be credible again. Now that we have this list of laws, in Article 1 that are changing, I want to say that I am pleased that there has been a compromise on the 2nd of May in the holiday law. Although I would be even more pleased that the unions would not only advocate the preservation of the work of the day off, on May 2nd, a day without content, but that the unions, together with society, would carry this part of the day off, which is substantively important to our nation. Inside May. Perhaps it would be better to think that in the future this will be the 9th of May, the day of victory, today also the day of Europe. Because it was once the day of winning the day off, even in Yugoslavia, even in Slovenia, it was replaced by more ideological laws. Or on May 13th, the day the first fighter against fascism fell on Mali Gora near Ribnica, Danilo Zelen, a tiger, to make this very important day, which also shows historical truth, a national holiday. For this was the first armed resistance carried out by tigers throughout Europe. Perhaps this would be better, but I am glad, as I said, that compromise, if only this content of the day is being advocated by the unions, then this free day can remain on May 2nd. [[...]] Once again, however, the Slovenian people have better content for their days. The second is that this law releases the very radical, very dogmatic political impulses we witnessed in yesterday's debates. Today, too, neoliberal doctrine has been seen, and I do not know it — at least this side of the doctrine does not need to be pointed out. It is true, however, that it is extremely present — with my biggest political party on my right and with some individuals over there — an unsightly doctrine. And I'm leaving behind the Social Democrats who are in front of the Congress. Those who fight against Pahor must come from these ultra-left positions. However, this issue with June 2nd is likely to pass. But it is more worrying that we heard some statements yesterday, and at least two of these, Mr President of the National Assembly, you who are the guardian of constitutionality and legality in this high choir, I think we should react. I warn you, the head of the Positive Slovenia Group said that in 48 hours we would bury the constitution and the law. Mr. Möderndorfer. Later, in a statement produced every 5 minutes by television in addition to the 'Pingwin' statement, colleague Jazbec said that we would wake up by adopting this law into a completely changed social order and political system. Does anyone claim that on May 11th, if I use metaphorics and symbols from Slovenian and Yugoslav history, it will be the day of the five-January dictatorship or 11-Majian dictatorship? Are you aware of the inadmissibility of such markings?Oh, my God! How are we going to bury the Slovenian Constitution? Who else can say that? I agree, with what I am reading today, that Mr Pahor said that if we do not save public finances, we will lose our sovereignty. That would be the burial of the Slovenian Constitution because we would no longer have a foundation on which to build. I firmly believe that by adopting this law and by the social consensus we have reached, tomorrow we will strengthen the Slovenian Constitution and ensure the long term of Slovenian sovereignty and statehood. But if we did not go through this rescue of the state and public finances, then we are probably in a crisis of sovereignty and real danger. Personally, as a policy, I am actually glad that a positive party has become such an anti-human party. That at a time when the real-sector unions representing workers have already realized that it is necessary to act, you have put yourself in a completely anti-working direction, anti-agricultural, that you are still advocates of an exclusively narrow part of the financial oligarchy, especially the part that has not acquired its capital in a transparent way. Therefore, the false praise of such managers in the "Pingwin" statement, which have, I don't know, 200 million minus according to official information, is celebrated as the largest manager, the largest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Mr Jerovšek, no offense, but I would warn you that we are discussing Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1 of the Law – this also applies to all the following debaters – if we stick to this, it would be very good. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Good. There has also been a lot of talk about the law, which provides for some adjustments in retirement. Here, too, I must draw attention to the statement, and I will quote it from the magnetogram that was given yesterday, when colleague Kociprova said, "but we will now quickly, violently retire so many and so many thousands of pensioners." We'll retire thousands of pensioners. If it was a lapsus, it would be a duty to fix it. But if someone thinks that a pensioner will retire with euthanasia or other methods, then it is horrendous and sad. I warned you about that on Twitter yesterday, and there's no excuse. That's what you need. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] See what was said — pensioners are already retired. We know what retirement is, what it is. These are things that try to discredit serious measures, serious programmes that strengthen the country, which also provide pensioners with safe age. Your Honor, I really expect sobriety in assessing these measures. I do not expect the opposition to vote in favour of the measures, it has the right to remain on the second floor, but let us be realistic in defining the situation and the need for action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Mr. Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Have a good day. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Mr. Muscle, the replica? Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Dear President! I would only point to Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What Mr Jerovšek said earlier in his address, and so on, does not first follow the agenda, and then it promotes some intolerance or uses such words, some euthanizing and so on. [[...]] Look, our Masha Kociper didn't mean it like she quoted her sentence. What he has now broken down from her normal warning, a well-intentioned one, Mr Jerovšek has actually stepped up, so that he literally communicates some euthanasia in the ether and I don't know what. Mr Jerovšek, I beg you to calm down. The situation in this country is not like that, and I don't think that the words you're using don't belong in the temple of democracy, nor is it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I would really suggest that we stick to some cultural level of debate, that we do not discuss ad to persons, although I know that you are all tired and probably also a little nervous already, that we endure today and that you are discussing the content in peace. We have different opinions, there is no problem with this, but we can express them in a patient and cultural way, if you agree. Mr Ivan Pišek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Thank you so much again and have a nice day together! Yesterday, police officers, schoolchildren, nurses, young mothers, could mention other professions or workers, and perhaps the only agreement that would result from this would be that we all want a better life. I too know a mother or a future mother who is happy to expect, regardless of the fact that the situation is a little worse than it was a while ago, because in such situations this should not be a major problem. The essence of a child’s birth must be something other than a material basis or thinking about whether to spread, to develop a nation; whether we survive or not. Most of these mothers grew up in other times; when they had neither milk nor diapers, but only every car, three televisions, five telephones, they grew up to be honest, women, citizens, and I believe that even if they had to pay for another child or pay 30% of the kindergarten, they would be able to raise children into honest citizens. The arguments for and against the law represent everyone in the way he thinks it is right. It is worrying that we have not come to a close in recent weeks, in fact, on any matter. If it were real, it would still be clear. But I think the problem is that it's not about giving up because the opposition thinks it has to adjust its position. The position advocates the law, but the opposition is against it, although many of you are aware that changes are necessary and necessary. We should be aware that this law was created by non-reaction in previous years and by the situation in Slovenia today. And this situation is considered by some not bad, but at the border of critical. This was presented yesterday in his debate or report by Director Umarje, who said that we are in all attributes or by all indicators in the last places of the European Union average. The situation this year is at the level of 2003 and 2004 – almost ten years ago. Only 80% of Europe's productivity is achieved, and we are 40% behind the best. Labour costs are increasing significantly more than in Europe. Over the past three years, we have achieved the highest increase in debt, so we pay 750 million annual interest, leaving the principal to our grandchildren to pay. Last year, between the 27 countries of the European Union, Cyprus alone owed more than we did on average. After the market share, we are also lagging behind countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, that is, countries that we once considered to be some "Eastern" countries, less developed countries that we have been examples of. The unemployment rate is among the highest in Europe. This year's projected economic growth is once again negative. This suggests that there is no hope this year of any positive trend, because the trend is falling and will be worse, probably. The ageing of the population in Slovenia according to this data is also greater than on average in Europe, which means that there will not be enough work in the future to cover these debts and those losses that have occurred in recent years. Like many in one of the parties, I would protest a little against this data, but there is no point in protesting because these are facts. There is also a need to respond, and today, action is needed. Yesterday, the President of the Government ordered three steps to try to get out of this crisis. The first is immediate financial consolidation. This means what we are talking about today and what I hope we will accept. Second step, on the basis of complementary legislation, economic growth and on the basis of economic growth, new employment. Let us hope that this will then contribute to the larger or at least the social state we have today, which is the only indicator where we are not yet on Europe's tail or are better than some neighbouring countries. So, according to certain European criteria, we are not yet living so badly on average. Last month, I was in Italy and in Rome, on the main streets, homeless people gather with their cardboard boxes and put their beds on sidewalks, in the driveways. I talked to locals who say that they've gotten used to it, that it's kind of normal, because there's no jobs or they're still there in Italy, but it's normal for an engineer to take a cab driver's job, that a teacher's full of shelves if there's no one else. And they realize that they can at least survive by force with such a job. If they want something more, they have to do something this afternoon. If they want to educate their children, they have to do another extra job. This is a reality abroad and this is the reality where we are going if we do not act today. Today is an opportunity for us to stop this trend and to start saving before there is such an escalation of the homeless. I would call upon all opponents of the law not to act now in such a way that a priori must be against. Let us step together, and I believe that citizens will also be grateful, because in the professions mentioned earlier, people are aware that the measures currently on the table are not so drastic that they can survive. It will be difficult, we are all aware of this, but if we squeeze, it will be easier, especially if we come once to the standard we had in 2008 and maybe even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome to this beautiful morning, the ministerial assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This law on the balance of public finances is a huge read-out challenge for me. The law itself has 260, 261 articles and the circus 400 supplements, the amendments that are being tabled are exempt, and the other 45 laws represent some 15,000 articles, amounting to 3,000 pages. If I wanted to understand this, I would have to read for more than 10 days to create a real picture of what it means to invest in these laws. With this law, I think you've done a true nomotechnic miracle, a product that's not transparent, that's not accurate, that's not understandable, that's not clear and that's not predictable. It casts doubt on the legal safety of this product in practice. As a technician, I want to be very confident, and I don't hope to vote for something I'm not sure of. However, I am extremely pleased and I think that everyone in our parliamentary group, Positive Slovenia, as well as in the opposition that we have succeeded in our insistence, the positions that we have been giving over these last days, even at night, that we have returned something back to higher education, young researchers for research equipment, culture, primary school, kindergarten, the unemployed, sick, maternity, holiday and so on. This is what I think is the achievement of the entire National Assembly; if this is confirmed, it is not so affected by rights and social transfers, when we always point out that you have done too much on the expenditure side and not enough on the income side. Since this will have to be done in the second step, it is true in the following year, but everything will be done on the income side, but not with taxes, but with increased economic growth or, simplified, with an increase in the social gross product. This will have to be over 40 billion in three years if we are to preserve what we have negotiated together today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Madam Minister Ludmila Novak has signed up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Dear Members, honourable Members, members of the Government! I would like to refer to Mr Stepišnik's speech, which I liked very much. I have learned from this that this Parliament, i.e. the coalition and the opposition, has found some common points on which we can build first. Even when I read or heard about all the austerity measures we discussed, I also took a breath in a lot of people, especially as regards family policy. I am very glad that we have found certain pardons here, if I say so, so we have softened some of the larger cuts, because we are all aware that family is a wealth, that this is the future of the nation, especially at the age of the population, especially with a poor demographic picture. There are even more of these things than you said where you/we found common ground. We are really interfering with over 40 laws and, on the other hand, if we added laws to promote the economy, it would be very imprudent. But in the Coalition Treaty, we have written down that we will do everything in our power to make our economy work to reduce administrative obstacles, to do everything we can to achieve economic growth again. This is the other part of our task so that we can increase the revenue side. So I think we all have to build on this together; indeed, the paths are different. If I were in the opposition, I'd probably have a lot of criticism, as you are now expressing. The law is really extensive, we're interfering with a lot of things, but we've just chosen a path like this. However, since we have a financial minister, whom I think he is, I know, an expert, that he thinks in the long term, I am sure that you would probably propose similar measures if we had the same finance minister as it seemed at the beginning. That is why I think it is particularly important that we also give the politicians some hope, some confidence in the citizens, that we are serious. As far as I speak with citizens, they are aware that rationalisation in public administration is necessary, that it is simply no longer possible to maintain this, that it is a budget hole that we must somehow fill. I think it is imperative that we take advantage of this willingness of citizens in some way — I don't mean in a bad way — let us use it if I say so and make the most of it. Even if they were in the government, you should be taking unpleasant measures. In politics, it is always: we give more than we take away some people because it is painful. Citizens are aware that cuts are needed, that rationalisation is needed, so I am convinced that with some greater unity we have to give them another hope, a drive to be ready to accept all of this and, of course, to be able to create this country and to be able to co-create it. I said somewhere yesterday, I was recently with our great writer Boris Pahor, 99 years old, thinking very brightly, and he's also a bright spirit in these years. He says he's watching the nations and he realizes that we Slovenians are among the more capable. If we are building on the fact that we are more capable, and we have proved this several times in history, then I believe that we can get the country out of this crisis as well. The roads are different, and we can think differently, but I believe we have a common goal of turning this train down again. As a member of the government, I wish this courage, this power, even though we are very different in certain things.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of debaters. Since there is still an interest in the debate on Article 1, I will reopen the application. Please sign up. Mrs. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to respond to the concession first. The concession is not privacy, but management of an economic or non-economic service, in a particular case management of health activities, i.e. non-economic public service. Health care needs to be distinguished; i.e. private health and public service management based on concession. This is Article 42 of the Health Act. Under the law on institutions, an individual may also manage the public service if he fulfils the conditions for doing so. The financing of non-economic public services, i.e. health activities, is also provided from the budget. It is even cheaper because the concessionaire invests in equipment, intangible fixed assets, also employs medical personnel, has to pay for his own business space or take him out for rent. It now has the opportunity to apply incentives for investment, equipment and intangible assets. We have also heard further or earlier that the government's strategy is wrong and that it is a neoliberal doctrine that has proved unsuccessful. It was compared with countries: Portugal, Italy, Spain. The strategy of buying social peace, I think, and I am sure, at the expense of unreasonable debt, the taxpayers have proved to be a very bad path that has led us to the state in which we are. Indeed, we have opposed pension reforms in the form presented, but we must stress that pension reforms were also opposed by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as they made clear in the referendum. It should also be pointed out that it is yours, that is, our former Prime Minister, whom I personally highly appreciate, that Mr Borut Pahor has stated from his past experience that it is a time-consuming time and that he supports the measures proposed by this Government to come out of the crisis and that he supports the balance sheet, that he supports the law on public finances balance and, most importantly, also the inclusion of a fiscal rule in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I am also in favour of all three documents and I am voting in favour of the balance sheet for this first point of the Public Finance Balance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u38	I'd like to ask [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Mag. Leila Hercegovac. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I have to come by because of a colleague who mentioned concessionaires. Of course, we all know that concessionaires are part of the public health service network and are doing the same work as the public service. As far as money is concerned, they are paid in the same way from the Department of Health Insurance, of course by the head's effect, as far as they are concerned. But that's not the point, pal. The point is that in health - now we are talking about the Financial Balance Act - the treasury is down 46 million; that public health has gone from 75 million to 35; that there is no investment in the next three, four years; that investment funds are reduced by 67, 65 [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] million to 37. [[...]] So in the coming years there is no investment, no development and all those concessionaires that were previously financially oriented [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members, ministerial team, welcome! We have before us a law to maintain public finances, which is a prerequisite for the adoption of the budget balance that we discussed yesterday. We are interfering with this law in some 40 laws, which bring a large number of measures that are essential for the consolidation of public finances; we want to acknowledge this or not. In short, we will all have to cut deep into some foundations so that in a few years we can breathe better and that those generations that come after us will in particular have less debt to repay. Because in the last 17 years or in the last 15 years, we have owed about €17 billion and in the last three years alone for €9 billion. This undoubtedly means that even in the last three years, exactly what is being done with the state budget and how funds are being used and spent. Yesterday, mostly by opposition Members, I listened to an extremely interesting debate. But not so much because of the content, but because of one simple word, which has been repeated over and over again, it's like somewhere at the top of headquarters to agree which word is the key word that needs to be entered into this political space and then varies with it and manipulates it in all possible ways. This word is the word 'protest'; I protest for it, I protest for another thing, I protest for a third thing. However, I have never heard the word "proposal" from the mouth of opposition Members and Members; I propose this, I propose something else, I propose something third. In short, we only listened to the word "protest," but although some of the debaters who spoke about what they were protesting, they did not know at all what they were protesting in the truth. They have repeatedly protested against measures that are no longer in the public finances maintenance law today. This is also why today I must congratulate the government of Janez Janša and all negotiators with wisdom on their patient dialogue and, above all, on their arguments yesterday, on reaching an agreement with the unions. So today we have a situation where it is against austerity measures and it is only in Positive Slovenia that it is protesting if I release the Social Democrats. This is some real political situation with us. Even trade unions that have been very persistent, I believe, and a very difficult negotiator for all who have negotiated in these processes have seen that a social consensus can be reached, especially that this is extremely necessary in these times. But on the other hand, we have the opposition, which still thinks and thinks that even without austerity measures, we could go through this phase. No, we can't. Also, your President of Positive Slovenia spoke a lot during the elections about the need to save about 600, 700 or more millions of euros. Today there seems to be some kind of opposite opinion. Even more, I listened to his debate or press conference when he spoke about the law on the maintenance of public finances that we are talking about today. And more than a win, a mixed salad and a squeak, he couldn't do it. The president of the biggest opposition party has no more, more concrete, precise arguments than these flossules have been able to! I believe that we should move away, even those who had great ambitions after at least the prime ministers of the government, to move away from such a cheap populist demagogism and to say what the arguments are and what the additional proposal is, except for VAT hikes, as Mr Jankovic suggests. I think we need to take a more complex view of the situation and the matter in which we are in. If we are to continue to ensure a better future that people are not in as difficult situations as they are today, when some do not even have a basic survival, and, on the other hand, the wealthier some who have successfully joined up with money through a 20-year transition, then unfortunately, we must also start with the public sector and with the law on public finances. Just protesting, unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues will not be enough! However, it will be nice and good if another proposal follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! I am pleased that the only minister in the government today has stressed that there can be different paths to the goal. When we realize that we can live in a different way in the country, with our beliefs, equally well, and that we will not challenge each other's differences in viewpoints, a step will be taken that will also allow us to develop more quickly. I look to this law and to Article 1 with my own eyes. When I compare Article 1 with the laws that appear and disappear, I wonder where those promises of transparency, respect for the rule of law and legal principles, security and the like are, because laws appear and disappear. I cannot say this for 8 laws concerning the mega ministry, but if I add a law on student food subsidies and scholarships, these laws, which concern the student population, or young people, are a quarter, even more. My attention and concern is focused mainly on this part of the measures that cut into the most pulsating part of the Slovenian nation. But I would like to draw your attention to the second and third paragraphs of Article 1. In the second paragraph, there are permanent measures relating to student work, profit tax — still going on — and the subsidised price of lunch. So these are the things that will be permanent and have nothing to do with the current financial situation. Then there are the temporary measures, which are listed, which are among them, but are then written 'and other temporary measures to limit public sector costs'. And now I don't know what other temporary measures are. Is it possible that the reduction of the pension for directors of the Directorates, which is now being suspended by the Government and reduced their retirement for just one month is also such a temporary measure, or will it be a measure of a permanent nature? Probably for decommissioned directors of a permanent nature, because it won't be remediable. And you see, these are the things that would really make you think about. What someone considers to be a proposal is another thing, but let me just remind you of this: when I pointed out on the competent working body that the proposals are such that they go beyond austerity measures, I did not get a response from the applicants or any clarifications. But look what happened. Now 15 articles of this law with the same diction, the deletion of the article, will be removed from the law. Will you laugh at yourself? Now, about this consensus and what people do or don't do. You know, I'm not that naive because I haven't been since yesterday. Why did the government agree to withdraw certain things from the law? Because she received assurances from the unions that they would not demand a referendum! Why did she take these measures out of the law? Nor is there any naivety necessary: because she has exceeded the powers she has because she has reached out to the autonomy of collective bargaining and has reached into the norms and standards. These are the articles that go out. But there are still articles in the law that interfere with the highly professional issues relating to education, namely the introduction of the first foreign language, compulsory, into the first class, differentiation, national knowledge tests and could still be listed. Because they did not need the union's consent, these members remained. And we can protest, however we want, but it is difficult for people to explain that we have the Social Democrats in Parliament 10 votes and something about counting votes we have already learned or have been taught about. And that's the fact. Social Democrats have different views on regulating fiscal, monetary, other economic and social issues, but our current political weight is such that we cannot penetrate these views in this House. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, I do not think we should, because this is undemocratic, circumcise ourselves if we as the opposition parliamentary group are consistent and we are doing our opposition function clearly and loudly by warning against what we do not agree with. And one more thing. It is not only a referendum that has prepared the coalition to withdraw individual things, it has also seen a coalition that has no support for people, and they have gone and you know that if the unions did not have such support at the public sector strike, I am sure they would not have achieved the standards and standards of this law. [[...]] But it has turned out that people care about quality public school, that they care about what kind of kindergarten children go to and what school legislation is like — I hope they will continue. As the greatest thrust of this law and of this policy, which was built on the conflict between the real and public sectors, has become apparent here so far, because also those working in the real sector have children in public schools and in public schools and are in the public health sector. As long as people are aware of this, then the opposition will be stronger and be able to exercise it more clearly, whether it is then the unions or the opposition achieves it; it is important that some of the worst measures are not recorded. But how consistent the coalition is, how respect it respects the agreements and how frank it speaks about things, it best revealed Article 169 in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u45	The Secretary of State, Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, called. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to say something about professional questions and savings. It is true that saving also touches national knowledge testing; this law shifts the national knowledge test from the third grade. This brings us together to those countries that do not have it. There are many countries that do not have some third-class national knowledge tests, because they do not bring so much information and so much added value to be able to say that this is a reasonable cost. At the same time, in the past, when some time before 2004, this ran in schools, it was the national knowledge check that caused severe discontent among teachers due to its re-hypopathicism. As far as differentiation is concerned. This is also the case — not about saving, but about economics. The level education now replaced by the autonomy of the school, which will decide whether it will have a level education or anything – because we are talking about smaller learning groups, leaving the school to decide for itself – is now left to the school to consider this study done by Unesco. A 20-year study summarizing 30 studies in 30 different countries on all continents, which have been going on for years, longitudinally, with students for many years, found that level learning is damaging. It is especially damaging to those who are the weakest, since they never meet their fellow students in knowledge — because students also learn from each other — it harms the middle population and brings very little to the most talented, and they have a program for the gifted as well as an additional lesson in our schools. Last but not least, level education hurts teachers too. It has been proven in this study that teachers need at least half a year to reorient from one level to another. And this time, it's an empty run. And last but not least, this study also says that in the end it also damages economic damage because we get the whole population less educated. That is how this article is viewed in the long run. As far as the first foreign language is concerned, it is a pilot issue, a gradual introduction. The new law, which will be enacted on September 1st, makes the first foreign language available in the second grade, thus creating a first - class gap for those children who had already had a foreign language as a superstandard in kindergarten. This means now the gap, the departure of these children to some private institution and the absence of some continuity. I also have research into foreign languages saying that early learning of the foreign language is an imperative of Europe and helps to improve careers and also later to the good economy of the country. As far as standards and standards are concerned. The fact that they have been removed from the law does not mean that we will not touch them, but it means that we will touch them in agreement with the social partners. But I believe there's no quality if we have 14 children in one section and 28 in the other. If anyone thinks it's quality, it's probably a mistake. However, the purpose is to arrange this so that the departments can be as fully filled up as possible so that the children can be as close to their school as possible and have as equal opportunities as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Replica, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Thank you. It's a very short replica. I have no objection to the fact that there are different views on the same issues in the profession, but they must be the subject of professional debates, not political opinions on matters, and there is no time to challenge what has been said. However, it proves what I am saying all the time – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act was the result of professional checks and debates in the profession, and now we are politically changing it without professional discussion, with the power of coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Once again, Mrs. Moica the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u50	With regard to these expert discussions, we know how they were done in the White Paper, because the new White Paper was the basis for writing this law; and we know how many influential and well-known experts came out of this debate. And that's very resounding. We can't talk about a consensus like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Mrs. Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. All together, welcome to my name too! Today we decide what country we want to have tomorrow. Whether it will be a country in which we will rule our own destiny, or whether it will be a country in which someone else will dictate our lives; whether we will be realistic or live in a dream that has nothing to do with reality. We decide what kind of life we want to create for our citizens: whether it will be a constant battle for survival or an environment in which growth and development will enable a decent life for every individual. Thousands of Slovenian families who had lost their jobs and income during the economic crisis were aware that if they wanted to survive tomorrow, they needed to change their way of life today. And they are! Life-style changes, such or other cancellations at all and not easy and easy decisions for everyone, but they were necessary if Slovenian families wanted to survive. It is a pity that we have not followed our citizens and citizens before. We forgot to think like Slovenian families, we forgot to think about tomorrow. We have not responded to the situation in a timely manner, so today we are faced with measures that must be taken urgently if we are to see our country see tomorrow. If we wait, if we do not take appropriate measures, the sad stories of our citizens will not be over. If we do not take measures to save the necessary resources we do not have, which are, unfortunately, crucial and essential to the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs, tomorrow will not be for us. Each of us must answer the question of what kind of life our citizens and citizens want tomorrow. We must not remain in today's day, just think for a short time, but we must ask ourselves what future we will set for ourselves today. I am aware that changes in the field of rights are not easy and that they affect an individual, but the key question is: Do we believe that our citizens deserve to live with 200 euros of social assistance a month because of our passiveness, or is it our responsibility to make decisions that will enable jobs and thus decent life as they deserve today's savings and tomorrow's development?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u53	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Council of Ministers! First of all, I fully support or agree with what colleague Jasmina Opec has said. That's actually true. Perhaps the current or, above all, yesterday’s debates are based on the fact that we may be assessing a different state of affairs in the country — whatever it is. Of course, if someone estimates that the situation is better than it is, then I can also understand that these measures are overly one-sided and so on. However, the undeniable fact is that in 2008 Slovenia was behind the average of development in other European Union countries by 9% in order to reach this average. Today he's down 15%. In other words, this means that even during the crisis in the last three and a half years, the European Union has achieved faster development and this also means both a relative and an absolute backlog. This is shown not only in what has already been mentioned, in a large number of unemployed, but in the last three years this has increased by about 60,000 — 55, 60,000. It also appears that we are lagging behind, say, in the area of patents. In Slovenia we make 60 patents per million per year; the EU averages over 120 patents. This means that development policy, including science policy, but that which was and was also financed relatively rich, has not produced such results. This different assessment of the situation means that perhaps if I do a little caricature, someone or some — and I do not deny it — live in a fairytale world and in a fairytale world when Snow White wakes up from her dreams and lives happily with her thumbs for the rest of her days. But they are not really witnesses to business failures, personal tragedies, bankruptcys, business liquidations and suicides, as has been the case in the last three years. And that's the real state! Today the fairy tale world is gone. Speaking of the next set, we can also talk about the fact that these measures are not unilateral. However, the measures in the last hours, if I say so, are changing relatively quickly also because they are ongoing or negotiations with trade unions are still taking place yesterday. And we are no longer talking about those measures that were two or three days ago if these measures are no longer available today. If we no longer have any changes in the pension system today, we are talking about something else. These measures are already balanced. If we take the fact that there was no investment in Slovenia and that we encouraged the Government to propose a law, and the National Assembly adopted it on additional investment facilities for research and development, so that companies will actually have additional facilities to start the development cycle. In fact, this means that we are improving the business environment and that such projects will also come, so that these projects will trigger economic growth. Economic growth cannot directly trigger the country as such, it can make an environment and there is no neoliberalism here. If we compare neoliberalist ideas from the time they came, then the role of the country as a whole was extremely small in the economy. In the early 19th century, when the crisis arose, the country’s role in the economy was not in fact present, and that is why it was possible to make the same policy as it was. Today, the role of the country is extremely large, almost half of GDP – I think mainly about taxes here, almost half of them and so on. That is why we cannot talk about the same starting points and actually copy – that is an ugly Slovenian word, not a Slovenian word at all – these matters are in the present state. The projects will come on the basis of a better business environment. There's something else I'd like to mention. It is very bad that we have unfinished projects in Slovenia and that we have unfinished projects in the country. It is very bad that we have projects that show that they are not finished, where the cement is still on the ground, the walls are not processed, the cables are hanging from the walls and so on. Those who have done these projects would be very good to complete them. After all, even if they're talking about what they're going to do, I don't know how many new projects and so on. For the country, there is a very poor picture of unfinished projects in Ljubljana. It would also be nice and it would show the effectiveness of these people who are doing these projects, that they are really effective, that these projects would also be alive and that they could actually prosper economically and financially, that in these projects that were built in Ljubljana, there were actually a lot of people to be great concerts to be international sports events and so on; in short, this is not. This is a very bad sign for the country that it has so-called inherited investments. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u56	I don't think there's a difference in the assessment of the situation. I think it's a radical difference in the assessment of the reasons why we came into this situation, and in particular about what tools are available, that we take Slovenia from the situation it is in. The government coalition advocates a minimum state recipe. Don't let the state intervene. Let the state simply stand by and disturb the economy, capital and the market as little as possible. On the other hand, we have a vision of a stronger country, a country that understands that the market simply cannot manage everything on its own and that if we want to go to a knowledge society, which has been the strategic imperative of the entire Slovenian policy, then the state must be the generator of development here. A generator that will provide everyone with equal opportunities. If we want to have developed infrastructure, the country must generate the conditions here for this infrastructure to develop, and in many cases - I do not say that this is the only mechanism - of course also contribute public funds to the construction of the active infrastructure, this backbone on which the future competitiveness of Slovenian society stands. If, for example, we want to develop a logistics centre at the Maribor airport, which many experts estimate has an exceptional opportunity to drive, then the state cannot stand by, but actively put itself on the ground, organise things, make a change in the destination of land and also ensure municipal land equipment, in order to attract potential strategic partners in the development of this project. If we want a country that provides equal opportunities for all, we need to understand that we need a strong country. And if we want to understand that we need a different economy, an economy that is more betting on the complexity of knowledge, then the country must play its part in promoting it. I think the idea of tax incentives for investment and development is a good idea if it has a fiscal basis, and on the other hand, if capital taxes are not set too low. Because, after all, you only find that you're here to reduce the effective taxation of profits, and you're not really following other effects. You know what you're after, but you don't know what you're doing. On the other hand, the recipe that Pahor's government has tried to make: a billion four hundred grants to the restructuring of the economy; not in general, but in those projects that have promised to increase the added value and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy by developing new products. I'm still saying it's the right recipe. Experience, if we want to see them and see what is going on in the world, not only now that we are facing a crisis, but especially when Europe is in this debt crisis by tightening its belt, especially in the south of Europe, it has gone to a scenario that has already proved to be in a saving-debt spiral in some countries, and some other countries, including Slovenia today, are following this scenario very realistically. But also countries that have in the past introduced a policy of State withdrawal, privatisation, privatisation of public services, all of this can provide a market that has withdrawn the country as a development factor that has reduced the social security of people, since the market will take care of all those who want to work, but of course forget that there are those among us who are weaker and who cannot survive this very tight competition. These countries have proved to be carriers of historical errors. I think the only way is actually to insist that only through fiscal leverage can we ensure further growth and development. Of course, financial discipline is needed. I absolutely agree with those who claim that we cannot have a single monetary space unless we provide more discipline between the European countries. But remember the beginning of the crisis. What were we saying back then? We have looked at the cause of the crisis, and this is the financial sector. We have said that we need the regulation of the financial system, which has gone wild in 20 years of globalisation. We need sanctions against tax havens in order to keep the money where it is created, but not simply to fly where it is not taxed and thus allow for higher profits. What happened to the early 2009 passwords? We can see that logic has completely changed and that we are not correcting the causes of the current crisis, but, in fact, in terms of finding solutions, we insist on the prescriptions that have actually caused the global, economic and financial crisis. And here's your big mistake, because Slovenia now takes you on that train that promises a dangerous scenario of a lost decade. A lost decade, which will be particularly painful for the young generation, which today is without opportunity, which cannot count on tomorrow to be better. If you want to get the country out of the crisis, I would really like to help you with that, then you need to understand that the only recipe that people will have is that people will have more chance of having more security in order to have a solid basis for recovery. Without this, there will be no solution because the measures you are doing radically reduce that little trust in Slovenian society, even that little courage, and ultimately will be nothing more than a deterioration in development opportunities and a longer period of stagnation, if not even the economic downturn of the whole society. I think we are all forgetting the European dimension of crisis resolution together. I don't think Holland's victory in France is in itself a promise that it will be different now. I think that some of the recipes that European policy has so far ignored as possible tools for getting out of the crisis, and this is in particular the issue of European bonds by the European Central Bank, are now becoming more politically feasible. See where our problem is – our problem is that we are getting tighter funding conditions abroad. The fact is that we are spending more than we create today. This is what you all like to say, but, my dears, each of you, many of our citizens today spend more than they create simply because it is normal for us to be in charge of meeting some of the longer-term needs of each of us. So that the burden of, say, financing the apartment, financing a new car or launching an entrepreneurial project can be reduced to a longer period of time, because we cannot fully finance it today. My dears, all those who talk about spending more than we create remember your family finances, and I ask you how many credits you have. The key question is whether we have the capacity to repay our obligations. I say we have them, but we must ensure that the budget does not leak money where it is not necessary. One such thing is a pension box where, due to demographic disadvantages, we pay the same price as it should. I agree with you that there are also some reserves in the public sector, but these cannot be found linearly. This must be the task of principals of primary schools, directors of administrative bodies – find internal reserves! And don't fund by logic any more: we spent a hundred units last year, so we have to be close here this year. That's the wrong logic. This logic, of course, requires us to move away from the concept of reducing social security funds, the social cohesion of this company, the development and science and the restructuring of the economy. I'm reading all three points in this savings package. We must strengthen this European dimension! What I would expect from the Slovenian government is to put on the European parquet among the allies of the common tools available to Europe today; to ensure financing for growth and development and to make this funding cheaper than what is available to us today as a country. I think we all lack historical memory together, and I know that this debate is not meant to clear up where the reasons are. Yesterday you also spoke about Gerhard Schröder and German politics Die Neue Mitte, and you forget that Germany played a performance role very early. Many who today make fun of Blair's third path forget that Great Britain played an important role at that time in bringing together the freedom of the economic system, but at the same time also a strong country to enter when it is necessary because there is a need for strong public services of imperatives. If I didn't know that logic would have such devastating consequences, then I would even suggest that you do an experiment; okay, for one year, let's forget about public services, let's cut taxes. Each person should pay his own public services, education, health care and so on from his own pocket. But I guarantee you, this will not only destroy this public service, it will destroy our group and common opportunities to move forward as a society. We must not forget progress as the necessity of Slovenian society. The best service for the development of Slovenia would be to insist on the structural reforms that Slovenia needs. Yes, some will still be painful; yes, many can correct some of the injustices and some of the big illogicalities that we have in the system; yes, I am your ally when you talk about the anti-biruptisation of Slovenian society and when you think clearly about what processes in our public administration we really need, what are the processes that we need less. If this is how you're going to change things, even political consensus, I'm pretty sure it's not far. No matter what I think of this government and its President, I guarantee you that I wish I could help you in this process. It is not my desire to be one of the radicals in this House, but it is imperative to be one of the radicals in this Parliament when we face the proposals that the current government coalition serves us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u58	Good day to you all! My friend Frangež had a sounding speech. He may wait long enough for me to say a few words about our conceptual differences, but for the introduction that I will not miss the debate, I would say that we are talking about Article 1 which tells which laws are all changing. All I'd say is that it's a very extensive document, but it's not a document to the unanimity. It is known that those who are a little older and who have been in this Parliament for a long time, you know that this law was similar to that law, the law that passed on the obligations of the municipalities to the administrative units there somewhere in 1994. If I touch Mr Frangež and my colleagues from SD a little bit more, there are indeed different paths to the common goal. Even if Mr Borut Pahor, who had sat there before, sat at this seat of the Prime Minister, I am sure that we would have a common goal. This common objective, however, is to bring our deficit down to below 3% in 2013. Here comes our conceptual differences as discussed by colleague Frangež. They say they stand for a strong country. Okay, but I'm gonna ask them where this strong country can take it from. North Korea is also a very strong country, and it has nothing to give its citizens. Where do you take it from? And that's that fundamental problem. Social rights can only be granted if we have a good economy to create something that can then be shared among people. That's all. There's no other option. And it is conceptual differences, if colleagues from the SD point out that some taxes still need to be raised, do not eliminate them so that we can share the taxes collected among the people. We simply advocate a slightly different concept and this concept is that we can spend as much as we create, even though this concept seems very strange. But that our goals are common, the simple facts speak – and Mr Pahor has repeatedly said this. He also supported, among other things, the so-called golden fiscal rule on the Constitutional Commission because he is aware of what our common goals are. Also yesterday – I think in the View show – he welcomed this agreement with the unions because he is aware of what our common goals are. These are the facts. But I understand the opposition is much easier. All together, all Members, all of us sitting in this Chamber have received a number of letters these months, very personal: mothers, elderly ladies, unemployed men and so on. But our duty, the duty of this coalition, is to prepare some sustainable measures that will lead this country to a better path. But it is much easier for the opposition to say that it is not for them to propose even better measures or to propose slightly milder measures. There's talk about how this coalition takes revenge on people. Mrs. Potrata talked about how this coalition is forcing people. I really don't know if this coalition is so mean that it wants to do all this. It would be easier for us, as Mr Frangež says, to have a strong country – say, colleague, what you want, we give you – that the country is a self-service trade and no problem. I would like that, because politics is the hardest thing to say — no. You all know who walk in the field, wherever you go, people ask you whether you could do it or could do it. The hardest thing to say is no, because there's nowhere to take it from. We'd give more to people in the coalition if we could, but unfortunately we can't. I would like to conclude with this, perhaps today I will also see an agreement between the opposition, where to take as a strong country. This answer is of great interest to me, and I will be happy to listen to it. Another way forward, I am a young Member, but nevertheless, precisely because I am young, unburdened, I would want to go beyond this framework, that the opposition must always be against and the coalition always for. I'll give you the case of New Slovenia. When the National Assembly was set up, it seemed insanely unusual that one New Slovenia could support Borut Pahor in the fight between Maša Kociper and Mr Pahor – and we supported him. Perhaps this is one of the examples that the opposition could also support a coalition proposal. The coalition has also listened to some opposition proposal because all these amendments, which will be in the voting hours ahead, are likely to include a huge number of opposition proposals within them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Replica, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u60	I wouldn't want Matthew's question to remain unanswered. But I ask you politely to hear it this time. Not only because the Social Democrats continue – I have repeated this at least 10 times, but I know that colleagues from Positive Slovenia have also done it – but this time you hear this answer that you want: there is a common goal, and this is a fiscal consolidation. We are aware that in the medium term until 2015, because these are our international commitments, we need to achieve the medium-term balance of the budget and that we need to reduce our actual and structural deficit. At least for 2012 and 2013, we have prepared a viable scenario for public financial consolidation. This scenario assumes, even when it comes to details, that we should cancel the reduction of the revenue of the state budget – that is, what we have been alerting us to at the time when you accepted the changes in corporate taxation – to extend the intervention law, which was the full readiness of the social partners, and that in 2012, because we no longer have room for manoeuvre, by introducing an additional income class, by working on pension reform, by optimisation in the public sector, which we are realistically assessing at some 100 million euros, we are achieving those objectives for which we are responsible to the European Commission. And this is a reduction in the structural deficit for a poor percentage point and, on the other hand, a real deficit that enables the achievement of the objective in 2013. It is said that we will achieve a real deficit of less than 3% in 2013. Today we need to start working on pension reform, you have the whole package on the table, mark the parts that you last year, not you, Mr Tonin, but your political allies, they have been so disturbed. Mark those three, four articles and start talking to the unions about them. I am convinced that pension reform can still be under the roof this year and that it can already have effects in 2013. In reducing the structural deficit, pension reform will save you €260 million and actually save you around €120 million. Will you give up this tool? That's exactly what this is about. That we all understand that we have to, I'll say, straighten things out. But you bet in a way that won't bring economic recovery. This is a key problem for you to live in this entity, which has already proved to be a illusion several times in the case of many countries! Instead of eliminating those sources of our structural instability, such as pension reform, the grey economy, as is to a large extent the established labour market relationship, which I agree should be addressed in a smart way. There are alternatives; you do not want to hear about alternatives!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u62	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, distinguished members of the Government or representatives of the Government, honourable Members and honourable Members! Yesterday we discussed and today we are considering the law on consolidation of public finances. We are considering the measures that must be taken urgently in order to balance our budget in a timely manner, and that tomorrow we will not be servants to those who lend us credits, for we have heard a sentence a few days ago that if you are in debt you are never free. I think it's a deep truth worth remembering. But first, on the law itself, or on the form and approach, how we will amend or supplement the laws for the consolidation of public finances. It is worrisome that the Legislative and Legal Service, in its broad opinion on the proposal for a law, has found that this is an imprecise, unclear and inconsistent law. Nomotechnically, it would be more appropriate for amendments to be submitted under an individual law. Such an approach would require much more time for preparation alone and also for consideration. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether we are in such a hurry. If the answer is yes, then this way is justifiable. The Public Finance Balance Act will affect many of our citizens. It is difficult for me; it is difficult for me because it will primarily affect the lower layers of our society. He's going to hurt those who already live hard enough. That is why I will take this opportunity when I have been given the floor in the National Assembly to publicly thank the members of the coalition who have listened to the DesSUS demands on the issue of the elderly. Thus, there will be no interference with pensions paid on the basis of paid contributions. It also retains a holiday allowance for those pensioners with a lower pension, and I think it is appropriate to say that people hear that there is a proposal for recreation for all pensioners who receive a pension of up to EUR 414, EUR 368. In the second group, those who receive pensions above €414 and €518 will receive an additional €223. And all those who receive pensions above €518 to €622 will receive an allowance of €166. The protection of older workers during the period of unemployment is also maintained, and relief has been provided for hospital compensation and other social transfers that pursue family policy. Our Minister has already spoken about this today, and I would not repeat it. I must also say that I advocate public health and that we do not cut this money too much to make public health available to everyone. As many people as I meet today, I haven't lived them all my life, and I'm not so short of time in the world, so it hurts. I am also advocating public education. I am opposed to introducing higher education fees because I believe that in this case they would prevent all those talented students from socially weak families from being educated, and that would not be right and would not be in accordance with our Constitution, which says that we are a social state. As these measures, which will be adopted by this law alone, will not be sufficient to cover the overall deficit, I appeal to our government to do everything possible to increase the inflows on the income side as well. In doing so, I would point out that it is imperative to cut into the area of the grey economy which should be reduced and that more taxes should be recovered, it is said, to ensure that the unpaid taxes are recovered. Now that I have taken advantage of this in my words, I would like to draw attention to something else that has just happened in the National Assembly, but it is not Mr Shirtzl to whom this refers. I'd like to tell him the following. When I listened to this dialogue between him and Mrs Bratuškov, who challenged him that there was a three-hour break between and each other’s session — this was not enough time on the Committee on Finance for people to rest — I was hurt by his response. He hurt me because he violated the country's labour law with what he said. That's not right. I therefore point out that the Labour Relations Act states that the worker has the right to rest between one and the other working days of 12 hours. In our case, it is said that workers with special powers are exempted and so on, and this time is 11 hours. So three hours is definitely not enough. And now I will also say this word: I am protesting the violation of labour law in this temple of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Let me begin by giving some insight into why we are here, where we are, and why we must adopt such a law today. In the previous term, we have warned all three years that it is not good to borrow money or that it will have to be returned once; that it is wrong to burden future generations with it, and what happens when we are no longer able to borrow money for current funding. We have proposed many measures. Today, our colleagues are telling us or reminding us only of the pension reform which has failed to comply with the social partners and has therefore not been adopted. We have proposed many measures that have been rejected by all in a row, without arguments and with ridicule. Even when we warned that we will need a budget rebalancing for this year, some of us in the then coalition laughed when we warned that we are not establishing offices and agencies for which you have hired 7,000 additional people in the last three years. You mocked us and said that we needed this because of the European directives and so on. The result is that 10 years ago we are for the salaries of public servants of the public sector, which we need – no one has anything against teachers, educators, doctors, nurses and so on – but the fact that we needed or provided 2 billion for these purposes 10 years ago today we need 4 billion 100. So we've doubled the public sector costs. This is more than half the budget and it is clear that this is not the way and in the long run. When in debt – many of you have talked about how we have increased public debt and that, since December 2009, we have been formally in the process before the European Commission, watching and watching what and how we will balance public finances and when we will address the deficit below 3%. My friend Frangez here tells us what to do. In January 2010, his government wrote down or pledged to gradually reduce the deficit in the stability programme, and in addition to Cyprus, we were the only one to increase it. Thus, such counsel may come at another time when they had scissors and linen and could do these things. In addition, not only did we double our public debt because you obviously knew it yourself, but in December we then passed an intervention law. If I could just read a few statements from colleagues from Positive Slovenia, who at the time or all of us thought that each other would take these measures. Indeed, Mrs Vraničar, who works at the finance ministry, the secretary of state, said at the time that it would be necessary to reduce, at the time of the adoption of the intervention law, expenditure in 2012 for the circus EUR 500 to 600 million. However, in the event of a significant deterioration in the economic situation or even a possible recession, expenditure should be reduced by an even greater amount. This is what you, colleagues from Positive Slovenia, Mrs Bratušek: "The law is urgently needed, by adopting this law we will show that we are still in control of our public finances and that we know how to find solutions ourselves and that we do not need Europe's guidance on what needs to be done and what needs to be done. That is why we have very little time to adopt this law for a few days. We know that this time it was no different; even more, we were the initiators of this action, if I may say that the law is passed..." And you also intervened on wages, pensions, social transfers – that is, those people you say today that we are overreacting too much to cause a social crisis and so on. You were proud to have been able to reach agreement with the social partners in a short time. Mrs Brunskole said, "This is proof that we know and can step together. The fact is that both parliamentary parties and social partners are aware that we cannot spend more than we have..." Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič said: "I am aware that the solutions proposed are not the most fair, but they are essential for stabilising public finances, reducing deficits and mitigating the debt crisis. The proposed measures are broken on the backs of the weakest and socially endangered groups, but this has always been the case and history is repeated. All the mistakes of major politicians have always been corrected by the weakest, most threatened, because they are present with the heart and are ready to solve what to do." I wonder what laws you would change if you were in a situation like the current government and what you would do to make these things different. You're talking about decommissioning education, health care. The fact that a few fewer funds will be allocated to health-care programmes, education means what some have already mentioned, that it will be necessary to look at which expenditure is still justified and which have become too rich during this period. If we were able to make less money one day, it's likely that there's somewhere else to save today and there's still some reserves. Some of you were talking about a ghost – I think Mr. Frangež. We have demonstrated in the period 2004 to 2008 that we know what needs to be done. We also knew during the period of the Pahor government, as we have said, several times, close to 60 laws. Everything was rejected because we don't know, and you know it. For three years you have had the time to show this, you have failed to comply with the social partners for pension reform, even for many other measures. We did it. This government, our negotiators, have succeeded in a very difficult marriage, we all know, agree with the unions, and it is therefore possible that we will adopt this law at all. A while ago, you were very happy when you reached an agreement with the social partners, and how much more is the word Positive Slovenia, what is the value of the word. On 10 April, your President at the Villa Podržnik said he supported the writing of the fiscal rule into the constitution, that he only wanted some more projections and calculations to be supported by you. Today, of course, he speaks differently. Mrs Bratuškova said two days ago on the Internal Policy Committee: "If the measures are coordinated with the social partners, we will support them." Today, of course, we speak differently because each one has an opinion, one part or three articles of the law may be disagreeable, and you reject it. All this is possible, but we want to balance public finances so that we can also take all the further steps we intend to take. Those who tell us that there are no measures on the revenue side; very quickly they will, some are already in this law, which you do not want to support. I hope that you will then vote in favour of these measures on the revenue side or there will be another excuse why you cannot. If that is how you want to help us: at the table you have an offer to cooperate and sign it or decide on it and together we will do what is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor to prepare, please, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! We're all talking about these drastic austerity measures and belt tightenings, so this morning I wasn't hoping to put my belt on my pants so that someone wouldn't squeeze me too hard and I wouldn't be able to talk then – a little joke. I'm gonna try to be brief. I don't want to be a masquerade at this time. A lot of good things have been said by a lot of people. I agree that this marriage is truly an incredible reading feat; difficult matter interferes with virtually all the seasons of our lives. But I think this is absolutely essential; it is essential and we will be successful if in all areas we can take small steps or small savings; from that: stone to stone, palace - I hope. I also hope that it will not be necessary to reach the point where VAT should be raised, and I will tell you why. I understand this fuse, though. I understand it in this sense, because if I invest myself at home, or I make an investment programme, a way of paying off, but I'm in the middle of something like this or something else, there's a meal coming up, these loans and liabilities need to be settled, I don't have money, I call the woodsman, we go into the woods, we do a department, a legacy, we knock down some trees, I sell it, and I cover it with that force. However, I am convinced that if this country comes to this situation in 2014 or 2015, that value added tax will have to be increased, I think that we, who are in the government coalition, and this government team is not worthy to continue to lead this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the word, and then if there is any other wish to make an application.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! I'm going to try to say something we may not have heard before, the matter we're talking about might be explained in some other way. To begin with, I would draw some parallels with the insolvency law that each country has and which requires clear and equal responsibilities from those who run business either in companies or in other legal entities. It is the responsibility of all major managers to immediately propose certain measures necessary to eliminate inefficiencies or insolvency. Otherwise, civil and criminal sanctions are provided for those who are blind, who push their heads into the sand and who do not react when they need to be reacted. We have cases where trials are being conducted before the courts on the responsibility of the Prime Minister of Iceland, the President of the former Hungarian Government. If I sum up; the government has a great responsibility at this moment to propose certain measures that it is confident will lead to a solution to consolidate public finances and that we will come to an exit from the crisis. Of course, the Government also has the legitimacy to propose measures for which it will stand and for which it bears full responsibility and which it considers to be the most effective in achieving this objective. According to local words, the government is proposing a way for this country to go and that we will achieve certain goals. At this point, there are theories about three possible paths. One route that has been seen in the past three years has proved to be wrong, disastrous. There is also a path that the biggest opposition party proposes and that we do not really know exactly how it is meant, except that it is being pressured by a VAT hike. And we have the path proposed by the coalition, which is firmly standing for and proposed by the Government. And for this journey the Government is responsible, not only for proposing it, but also for the ultimate goal. I therefore propose, since we cannot go on three paths at the same time, that this is not possible, given that the government's path has also received a green light in the social partners, in the unions, given that a great social consensus has been reached, that this path is right, and given that these measures in this Parliament, I hope, the vast majority, I also hope that you will support this path and these measures also in the opposition, which will be a good journey for further implementation. Another word or two may be that all four public treasury deficits have an extraordinary deficit, that we now have a standard of at least 20% too high, whether we can finance it or not. That, on the other hand, means we live at the expense of someone else. This someone else is our children, our grandchildren, who will have to finance this superstandard. I hope that these measures will be taken to truly achieve their purpose and their objectives, to be upgraded by the other measures which must come to this Parliament tomorrow, and to be proposed by the Government, and to actually come out of this spasm and come out of this economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? Because I can see there's still interest, so please apply. I'm opening the application. I can see that there are five people reported in order to warn you that two of them are so mags. As Mrs. Patricia Shulin, the time available is unfortunately over. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare, please, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I said yesterday that I understand and truly understand the rhetoric of the opposition, the rhetoric of the unions, but I also imagine that the opposition understands our rhetoric. But whatever rhetoric it is, it has to be exact. The lie has no place and the deception and intimidation of people has no place here, in this temple of democracy. We need to be exact, honest, just, and that's the only way there's gonna be some options, and there's a lot of chance that we're going to do something for our children, for the generations that are coming after us. The opposition, be exact and say that on the working body, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of all amendments, a few more than 300 were accepted by about 10% of them; and these were yours. I do not mind if Positive Slovenia, as I listened to colleague Alenka yesterday, boasts that they have improved family policy, but then mention and say that the National Assembly has adopted and that it will adopt a rebalancing and that the National Assembly will adopt a law to balance public finances, because yesterday you were saying that you will tell the public that you will not accept the National Assembly, but only a coalition. Here, please unify and please be exact! Yesterday you said that the amendments are only now coming to the table. Yes, of course, because an agreement was made yesterday! How can we implement the agreement in the bill?? It always bothers me to listen in this house and it seems to me that it is not an understanding that we have been a member of the European Union for more than eight years. The entry date was May 1, 2004. And Europe's obedience was evident to the coalition! But when I remember the performance of the President of Positive Slovenia on January 11th here, for this central speaker, when I listened correctly to what will be and what he will say about Slovenia's position within the European Union, and he said, you know, just one sentence, and let me quote it. He was even self-critical. I quote: "I haven't talked much about the EU, because this is our given fact which is and must remain..." End of quote. Maybe I'm too demanding when I was expecting at least ten sentences. But I believe that Members of Positive Slovenia, who are also excellent members of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Union Affairs, are European-oriented. I do, and I'm not worried about that. I agree when we talk about knowledge. To be fair, I'm being tortured by all the austerity measures. Of course, I also suffer when it comes to higher education. But it is true that money alone will not save our school system, which needs root correction, so that I do not use any harder word. Example. Many of you were with me at the rectorate of the University of Maribor. The rector was, of course, as you are to the rector of decency, a rather diplomatic, extremely good presentation of the University of Maribor was, mentioned the problems the university is facing, but one of the prophets said that we should do something that we receive every year worse students who are enrolled in the first year. We all know that, and we all know, especially those who have ever worked in the economy, that we have to do something to get better footage from our universities. But don't get me wrong, it's an attack on the university, on teachers who have trouble themselves, that it's an attack on students. That's not true! I say what our economy says. We produce non-employable personnel or: also personnel that are not employed. Then it is perfectly normal for young people with a diploma in their pocket to have no job opportunities, that is certainly the greatest trauma for a young person. I'd like to ask you to be exact when you talk about the government law that brought together various ministerial departments. I repeat, we have the smallest government in almost 21-year history of Slovenia. It was about rationality. We have also adopted this law in order to have a more wondrous state. Do not tell, please, lies that we have abolished the Ministry of Culture because we have merged it with the Ministry of Education or Education, whatever you want, which I think is extremely logical, because in the school system – that is my understanding – we are doing cultural or non-cultural people in the stage of education and education. I've been through work today, as far as we're concerned about culture. A similar event that we observed today was 10 years ago when we had our own Ministry of Culture. In the section culture is published a contribution and picture – I would say a picture of an artistic installation, although in this case I do not know what art is, but I know what installation is. The title of the article Pretty Cross burns nicely. The cross is a religious symbol; of course nothing happens, it's an art installation. I don't know if it's because we brought culture together with the education ministry, maybe that's what this is about. Okay. God does not let a symbol of the totalitarian system burn somewhere! When you say we are in a hurry – and that number 44 reminds me, not of the legislative process, but of numerology – allow comparison with neighbouring Austria. I am a man who likes to compare himself with the arrangements in Austria; not only I, but to many people from Slovenia, Austria is obviously an extremely friendly country, especially because within the European Union our people as day migrants can go to Austria to work and serve their own bread, build their homes, etc. Austria made oz, too. suggested the so-called spar program – I use Germanism here on purpose. Do you know how much he's worth? EUR 28 billion by 2016. I have to be exact, not this year, until 2016. 28 billion! One arranged Austria, however, has so many shears — what is wrong with them? The European Union has set them as an example, but what I have just said may not appeal to anyone. Do you know how many laws they changed? 98! That's two times forty-four plus ten. 98 laws! You know, in a bad time? Since I have heard several times from the representatives of Positive Slovenia that we should take time, a few months and so on and give the law by law, let us bring all these 44 laws into this Parliament in particular. The Austrians are smart. Austrian politicians are obviously smarter than us. In early March, they brought this spar programme to Parliament and adopted it. It will be implemented in two stages: one entered into force on 1 April – but this is the truth – and the other part of the programme will be implemented on 1 May. So much for the rush, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. I am pleased at least one point that we all agree on what the situation is, but I hear it too little from the opposition. Let's be precise, let's be exact. When you agree with the situation, you agree with us, then do not say that we should stop this parliamentary procedure, that we should withdraw the balance, that we should withdraw the law to balance public finances. Because look – and don't mind me now that I'm summarizing this rhetoric and somehow trying to get it into one sentence – then I remember here a statement of an extremely important policy, Slovenia, at the time of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Comrade Staneta Dolanca. He once said, "Friends and comrades, we stand on the brink of the abyss, but we will take a step forward!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Janez Fishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much! Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government! It's a historic day. There was a lot of talk about this law yesterday, of course, next to the balance. It was very interesting to look through at least part of the debate that happened yesterday. Very nice speeches were made by colleagues and colleagues of the opposition, especially Positive Slovenia, especially some individual ladies. Very emotional. Some of these speeches were very opposition. This last part, of course, I understand. However, since you also mentioned the Slovenian People's Party yesterday, I can say that we really talked about the historic day yesterday in our position. It's not like we're preparing these citizens and citizens something nice, something good. But that's why – where my colleague Horvat ended – we're on the verge of collapse and we're going to take a step further. So, historic day because we're on the verge of failure and we're not going to take this step forward! We'll take a step back. Everybody! We're not going to do anything, nothing because we don't have anything! We'll still go to our neighbor's house and we'll be in debt, but what we're about to do is we'll use it rationally. Some of you even told us yesterday that we've been giving up on some things. You may have even managed to get in touch with a large majority of the unions in such difficult times. However, you know, we would most like, not for ourselves, not for the authority, because of these people we represent; for them we should always work for them all the politicians in the first place and know that they are here because of them, not because of themselves and their own privileges, as many have in the past. We would like to see this rebalancing under 3% due to the Slovenian people. We would like to be able, perhaps even, to prepare the 2013 and 2014 budget so that the deficit is completely under control or what still needs to be borrowed. Because this is the only way, colleagues and colleagues, to gain room for manoeuvre so that we can finally make a business environment, so that we can finally unload the economy and thus increase competitiveness and bring investors to the country. Without economy, without creation, there's no spending! The Slovenian proverb says: she did not eat without work. Some people would eat and do nothing. It's not working! It's over! It's on the verge of collapse! Step back! In his history, Slovenian farmer preferred to starve for two years if he did not have it, rather than to spend his own land and sell it. Because if it were, then step back, then this earth is lost forever and he is hungry forever! Sometimes, when I was a child, on Sunday morning before the late mass — I think it was between nine and ten — some radio show. Remember, comrades? I remembered these shows and I said, "Remember, comrades and comrades, where are the times when Slovenia was quite high on the economic charts?" In the last three years, at least every year, she fell for about ten cities. There's going to be a lot of changes to be made here. It will not be easy with the intensive use of borrowed money and borrowing credits for some public projects – for example, you take credit and we save both Slovenian banks. For Mr Kovacic, 250 000 euros pays last year! Who is this already – the director of the Maribor NKB! Who was the chairman of the Taluma Supervisory Board, which is now gone. So, Danilo Toplek. Who Danilo Toplek – who was the silent owner of a quiet company in Taluma, where the director of a public company was, made a profit — in his pocket! Conflict of interest! At the same time, he was lending over the fact that he was the Chairman of the NKBM Supervisory Board. How far these leading men have led us! They paid themselves $250,000! I also expect my government to do something in this area, to check and examine how legal and how far away things have been, and to "go play the piano" where they belong. 250 million poufs, or 300 million, is a reliable Nova Ljubljanska banka, and the director has paid the Member's four-time salary! In one year we earn as much as Members in our mandate! So, colleagues and colleagues, it's not going to work. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u73	Mr Pukšič, I ask that you withdraw the debate by speaking primarily about legislation, not about individuals. Please hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u74	Thank you so much for the heads-up. But I think you're the last person who can remind me of this, given the fact that you're coming from and what we listened to yesterday. Of course I'll follow your instructions. So it's time, colleagues and colleagues, for a different concept. You call him neoliberalism. Today, my colleague Shirtzelj has spoken about this and I will not say it again. To talk about neoliberalism in the sense that we will decompose the country with this legislation and with this rebalancing is not true, but it is true that we regret that we have done so in the previous term under the second leadership and if this continued in this mandate, of course, in terms of non-creditability, which has already happened, and we would have even reached a point where we could even lose our sovereignty. Among other things, yesterday something was quoted around Cankar, as well as before the National Assembly. I'm into something, colleagues and colleagues, I'm sure. If we continued with the debt system, as it has been so far, and would still be getting credit, then I think, as Cankar wrote down, in a year or two they would really become servants; therefore, they would no longer be masters of their own. Some praised Greece for resisting Europe. Do you really think the Greeks are doing the right thing today? Of course, they've been doing what they've been doing for the last 20, 30 years. What do you think the bright future is really ahead of them? I am convinced that no — by the way and by the fact that the third party is supposed to be unable to form a coalition in a row. Dear Members and Members! Without further ambiguity, I can tell you that the economic policy that you also advocated yesterday in the rebalancing and today in changing this legislation, these results or where this leads us – we see and feel. The effects are here, the effects are known. Today we reap the fruits of this policy. He will now read you some of the achievements of the Ministry of Finance in the 2008-2011 mandate. Ten. 2011, this is an official document that came from the Ministry of Finance; there is no signatory, but it says: Public Relations Service. This job is nothing to blame, this one got, someone was making up this document. As such things are written in, I am sure that this document could not go past my colleague Alenka Bratušek, who was the director of the budget. This document reads: "Providing medium-term consolidation of public finances" – that is, according to you. "Firstly, establishing fiscal rules – a limit on budgetary expenditure of around €10 billion". Income — What Is One Thing? Ah, credits and so on, if that's all. "Second time – successful consolidation of public finances." Listen, the document is a couple of months old when we were just before the elections or in an election campaign because it was a document on the Ministry's achievements. So, you've successfully consolidated public finances. And at the end, it says, "Reordering the procedure [[...]] With which – this is now interesting – "we wanted to provide adequate funding in the field of the economy" and so on. It says here that you didn't do it; it says how much you'd spend, but it doesn't say anything about how to get there. I have talked about this many times and I have also talked about responsibility; also Alenka Bratušek is responsible in a positive sense – when she was in our government when we left her with over 40 million euros plus in 2008 – this was also said yesterday on TV in the Council on Channel A. Some of you say in these discussions that we do not accept your proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, yours and our concept of crisis resolution, even after this document I have read – do you know how far apart they are? For a few light years. Really, for a few light-years. You're saying nothing but that you're just against everything. First of all, there is a drastic commitment of the state to this coalition – and we tell you that this coalition of ours will not work or continue to be indebted, that we will not raise taxes, that this coalition will simply no longer push businesses and the most successful entrepreneurs and impose additional taxes and contributions on them. Therefore, your amendments — whether this is a thousand amendments, where the articles are deleted, up or down — bring nothing. They don't bring any new resources. With your amendments, you never told me where you would take it and where you would redirect it to achieve economic growth. However, it is clear, at least for all of Slovenia, and I hope that you too will slow down without it. It really bothers me that the summaries of your debates in the vast majority are aimed at only two letters, three letters: we are against, we are against everything. Yes, say you're against yourself! That'll be the easiest thing to do. Yesterday I even started my debate with a quote from Finance. Very strangely, no one else, even colleague Frangež, was using Finance yesterday. He likes to use them many times because there have been some professional articles in Finance, say, from Karl Lipnik Don't break it by raising VAT and so on. Very clear, professionally speaking. Interestingly, even in your debates yesterday or never before, I have not heard Mrs Bratušek say that in this area of VAT raising she would professionally go to the debate so that it would be good for the country; because simply the lady knows that she is familiar with the finances, she knows that this is not the case, and that is why she left it to those who do not manage these things so well and they just let themselves go on ice. That the Germans raised VAT — they did! How much? 16 to 19, and you'd have it at 25. Please! There is a significant difference, so economic growth, including European forecasts for next year, is – up and unfortunately, ours is nowhere else. I am sure that, quietly, colleagues and colleagues, you are grateful that we are doing this work that we simply need to do. I believe that citizens and citizens also understand this. You do not want to lubricate your hands with this, but it would be more normal to be in the National Assembly, now that we are actually ahead of this threshold, as colleague Horvat said, step forward, I say step back He did not say that we will move forward, but we are going with this rebalancing and the law step back, not like some former communist leaders wanted to drive things and they drove them away that we really fell into the abyss. [[...]] This, unfortunately, is now being done by some in Greece. But I believe in our government, I hope that we will simply insist that citizens and citizens will support us, thus, of course, taking full responsibility, and bring the country into further development. When this happens when economic growth when the budget is levelled – don't be afraid in the opposition, really, don't be afraid; then you will come. My fellow Jew said that you will not find it more difficult to correct after us — you never will, never will. To the full table, to eat and drink and to spend.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Janez Rybic, then we open the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! Many have already mentioned before me that, at this point, we are ahead of the situation when public finances need to be taken, even if we still have the means to act. We all know that the main objective of the proposed law to balance public finances is to reduce public spending and thus bring Slovenia to a safe side. Otherwise, we know what lies ahead. There's been a lot of talk around here, so I'm not going to say it again. The situation is critical, more than anyone wants to imagine. It has also been said that neither the government nor the coalition take these measures with enthusiasm, but with joy, but with responsibility to our country, to save it from a fate that has already affected some other European countries. We regret that we are in a situation where we cannot offer the measures they bring, but we are forced to take or face measures that are unpopular. But there is no other way. Without a reduction in public spending, there will be no reduction in the deficit, and consequently no better conditions for a favourable loan of funds that will allow us to implement measures to restart the economy. The proposed intervention law, unlike the intervention laws of previous mandates that covered only pensioners and the others most at risk, has in fact focused on all areas and thus constitutes a set of measures that will ensure the optimum functioning of the State and will not interfere with the situation of the most socially disadvantaged. Let me stop a little bit in the field of investment. I understand that this year's year will be a dead year, as in the field of investment, as in all other areas, budget expenditure must be adjusted to the current situation. There's a lot of road rehabilitation or a new building of the road that's going to hang in the air somewhere. Unfortunately, this will also be the case in the field of rail infrastructure, but discussions with strategic partners, particularly German partners, are only showing signs of optimism, as they are already continuing to be discussed on investing in large infrastructure projects. I believe we will be able to carry out the projects we have set up, even to a lesser extent. I believe that the path chosen by the government is the only real and only right path. There are no other ways, if, colleagues and colleagues, on the other hand, you say that the proposed way leads to ruin. No! No! To say that we should continue to spend, to raise taxes and similar things is marred by common sense. However, there were no other arguments and proposals on the other hand. The impact of raising VAT on the most socially vulnerable is also proven, rather than that we do not need machinery, fuel and other goods taxed at the general level to produce food. Solutions that add to the burden on the economy are not solutions, but they are just an additional nail in our country's baptism. The package of measures, the budget rebalancing, I respect the debaters who are working to ensure that the situation in our country does not change. [[...]] Way to present the problem – I think it's kind of too much vocabulary, bullshit. I don't think that's necessary at all. We can briefly say that we are paying $700 million for interest on loans this year. If we save $800 million with the measures, of course we want it with the new package, but we still have to borrow 1 billion somewhere. What is not clear enough is that we no longer have time to meet, but we need to be united, forget the offenses – at least for us in the National Assembly we must not even have them, because we are called to work for people, for our barely full - time country. I believe we'll get away with sparring, and if God helps us, we'll get away with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 1, unless someone else wants to discuss it. As I note that no one is ready to discuss Article 1, I am closing the debate to Article 1 and moving on to the amendments. Before we move on to the amendments to Article 2, I would like to point out that the amendments in this document are duplicated, namely the amendments by the Social Democrats from the 12th to 22nd pages, and some have been incorrectly tabled and have been subsequently withdrawn. For example, Chapters 5 and 6 etc. I am opening a debate on Article 2 of this Act, i.e. to the amendments to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 2. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 3. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] As I note that no one wants to discuss it, we are moving to the debate on the amendments to Article 6. Nobody wants to discuss it either. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 16. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We move on to the amendments to Article 19. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the debate on Article 53. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to the debate. We have two amendments to Article 55. No one wants to discuss it. We are moving on to the debate on two amendments to Article 57. Nobody wants to discuss it either. Moving on, we have two amendments to Article 59. Nobody wants to discuss it either. Then we have two amendments to Article 60. Nobody wants to discuss it either. We have two amendments to Article 61. No one wants to discuss it. We have two amendments to Article 62. Nobody wants to discuss it either. We move on to the 63rd article, where we have two amendments. Nobody wants to discuss it either. One amendment has been tabled for Article 69. No one wants to discuss it. We have two amendments to Article 71. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. We have an amendment to Article 75, and no one wants to discuss it. By 84, two amendments had been tabled. No one wants to discuss it. One amendment is tabled under Article 85. No one wants to discuss it. By 87th, we also have one amendment tabled and no one wants to discuss it. We move on to article 88, one amendment has been tabled. I see no one wants to discuss it. Two amendments have been tabled under Article 89. I see no one wants to discuss it. We're moving on to Article 91. One amendment has been tabled and there is no desire to discuss it. One amendment of the coalition has been tabled under Article 104. No one wants to discuss it. One amendment is tabled under Article 135 – no one wants to discuss it. One amendment is tabled for Article 165 – no one wants to discuss it. There is one amendment to Article 169 – no one wants to discuss it. In Article 169a, one amendment or three amendments has been tabled and no one wants to discuss it. By 170a, three amendments have been tabled. I see no one wants to discuss it. We move on to 170.b., one amendment has been tabled. There's no desire to discuss it. An amendment has been tabled by Article 170th and there is no desire to discuss it. The amendment is tabled by Article 172, and I also note that there is no desire to discuss it. There is also an amendment to Article 173, and I see that there is no desire to discuss it. Article 174 – there is also no desire to discuss the amendment. One amendment has been tabled under Article 179 and there is no desire to discuss it. One amendment has been tabled by Article 181 and there is no desire to discuss it. The amendment was tabled by Article 184 and there is no desire to discuss it. One amendment has been tabled by Article 185 and I note that there is no desire to discuss it. One amendment has also been tabled by Article 186 and there is no desire to discuss it. There is one amendment to Article 190 and there is no desire to discuss it. By 193, an amendment was tabled and there was no desire to discuss it. The amendment has been tabled by Article 194 and there is no desire to discuss it. By 195, the amendment was tabled and there was no desire to discuss it. By 196, an amendment has been tabled and there is no desire to discuss it. The amendment is tabled under Article 199, and there is no desire to discuss it. The amendment has been tabled by Article 200 and there is no desire to discuss it. Article 201 of the Act introduces an amendment and there is no desire to discuss it. Two amendments have been tabled by Article 203 and I see that there is no desire for discussion. The amendment has been tabled by Article 204 and I also note that there is no desire to discuss it. For Article 205. Procedural? Here you go, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to draw up my procedural proposal in the first place, and I will also explain it further. Explanation. I am making a procedural proposal for the Legislative and Legal Service to draw up a written position, which it gave orally yesterday on my procedural proposal at the meeting. This is a dilemma raised by Members and Members of Positive Slovenia, namely, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 205 provides that the exclusive competence to raise the value added tax should be in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After the proposed solution, as set out in the proposal for a law, the government should have the power to determine by decision each year by 31 March the amount of value added tax in our country. In doing so, Members of Parliament and Members of Positive Slovenia expressed our opinion or opinion. the belief that the solution proposed may indicate non-constitutionality. The fact is, in our country, we are familiar with the principle of the division of power under the rules in force. Since the tax on extra value is legal matter and the legislation – I believe we all know – is being adopted in the National Assembly, while the Government can only propose certain laws, we believe that this government authority is a new indication of a certain unconstitutionality. Last but not least, yesterday, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the oral opinion, we also received confirmation that the solution currently proposed under the law in such a form could indicate certain uncertainties or even a solution which could be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe the situation is a crisis, but I must say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is primarily responsible for these crisis situations. The fact that I would also like to point out is that hysteria in the adoption of such important laws – this hysteria was also evident in the mother's working body at two sessions, Monday and Tuesday, which took place late in the night or. Early morning hours, and I believe that neither the MPs nor the members of the government coalition were careful and did not know what they were accepting when they confirmed the amendment which gave the Government exclusive authority to decide for itself, past the National Assembly, by way of the public, on the raising of VAT at the annual level. My procedural proposal is that the Legislative and Legal Service, given that we do not have a magnetogram yet, draw up a written opinion, which it also delivered yesterday at the meeting of the National Assembly itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much, ma'am. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. With regard to your procedural proposal: Article 5(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states: "If the President of the National Assembly considers that a specific legal question must be resolved at the meeting itself, he shall invite the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an oral opinion. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service may require appropriate time to draw up such an opinion." Let me conclude that yesterday, the suspension of the meeting was carried out on my side, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service or. Mr Sterle, Head of Staff, gave an oral legal opinion. In view of your procedural request to request a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, let me say that I have not been provided in the Rules of Procedure to do so, but as President I will request that we obtain a written opinion or a written opinion as soon as possible. a magnetogram of the meeting, which will give a written oral legal opinion to the Head of the Legislative and Legal Services. Thank you very much. We're moving on to 205. We have one amendment tabled under Article 205. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? There's no interest in debate. We move on to 205.c. We also have an amendment tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a new chapter and to a new 205. An amendment has also been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to 205. An amendment has been tabled here. Anybody want to talk? I don't see any interest in the debate. One amendment has been tabled for the 205th Article and no one wants to discuss it. Would you like to discuss it? However, the parliamentary group does not have available time, so if time is available – later, mag. He's a duke. The amendment is also tabled by Article 206. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We move on to 206.a. An amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We have an amendment tabled by 207. No one wants to discuss it. The amendment is also tabled under Article 211. It's a wish. I'm opening the application. I'm asking for a report that's going on, who wants to discuss it. One panellist has been reported. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Since the amendment tabled is a consequence of negotiations or - some amendments - withdrawals due to subsequent arrangements between the social partners and because I do not intend to interfere with the autonomy of social bargaining, I leave it open for the time being. However, it must be said that I am building on the reply of the Secretary of State, who said that the issues related to the norms and standards are now temporarily withdrawn from this proposal and the negotiations will certainly move in this direction, including changes between them. It must be said that these amendments are linked to an area which, if implemented in such initial terms, will in fact reach the quality of public education. I think that the amendment proposing the deletion of this Article is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We're moving on to Article 214. The amendment was also tabled. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to 216th Article, and the amendment is also tabled. There's no desire to discuss it. By article 221, we have two amendments. There's no desire to discuss it. Article 223 also includes two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Weber wants procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Complete the course of this meeting as it is appropriate; not only say there is no desire for discussion, and let us move on. Follow the procedure and do what you have to do. It is not possible to react in such a short time to these many amendments that are ahead of us, in a way that, in the second that one closes up, you can close the debate on the other as well. I ask you very much to make a real adjustment to the number of amendments to the debate on whether or not there is a single article. We still have enough time to discuss the amendments, especially those that have also been put into the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'll take your procedural proposal into account below, and I'll pull over a little bit. So, one amendment was tabled to Article 211. A mag signed up for the debate. Majda Potter. Does anyone else want to apply to this article for discussion? I'm guessing there's no wish. We move on to article 214, where an amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? No desire to discuss it. The amendment is also tabled by Article 216. Anybody want to talk? I hope it's not too fast. We're moving on to paragraph 221. Two amendments are tabled under Article 221: Social Democrats and Coalitions. I'm opening a debate. An application for a debate shall be made. She's registered, and she gets the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to point out that, for example, article 220, which deletes paragraph 220, because it is linked to the 55th, the savings of EUR 100,000 in this year and EUR 400 000 in the future. In the case of Article 221, Article 4 million 85 thousand and 19 million in 2013. But this is linked to standards and standards that will significantly affect the number of jobs and will, in view of the projected savings, cut very strongly into the number of jobs in educational institutions. As the number of employees in schools decreases, the accessibility of individual activities will also be reduced as employees are also involved in how out-of-school activities, activities of interest, selections, and all other activities can be carried out. These are important questions. The savings placed on these items are sometimes ridiculously small — the one I said in article 220 — and when a person sums up all these measures, he sees that these are rigorous interventions into the public education network. That is why we are Social Democrats against this law, in addition to everything else, which I have discussed before and should be the subject of an in-depth professional debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see that there is no longer interest in the debate, so we are moving on to paragraph 223 where the two amendments are tabled. Anybody want to talk? I can see that the wish has been made for the debate, so I'm opening the application. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you. This amendment is purely editorial and proposes to delete the article. However, it is linked to a much more important article, which was Article 55, which speaks of the creation of a common school environment. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the issues relating to the design of the school environment are not as simple as some of the explanations on the financial committee could be heard. The common school environment remains the subject of design in larger places. There is no precise analysis, so I also addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth a particular question to see where they have data on how the data has been moving over the past ten years and how they intend to act in the future if some of the changes are to take place. Indeed, it was said at the formal level that branch schools would not be abolished anywhere, but the fact is that parental schools would be transformed into branch schools. How will these be extinguished or re-established if the population grows? We know that the movement of the population is such that migration trends due to people's friendly environment are also aimed at moving the urban population to the suburban municipalities, these are all things that need to be considered when we talk about it. But the fact is, once one institution is removed, it's hard to put it in place. And these are the things I think we need to take time. But savings, as we say, are so small in some explanations, because one cannot be satisfied with saying that savings will go only to one principal who will not be there anymore. It is not just one principal; it is also another teacher who will be reassigned and will be greatly changed by school life, both to them and to the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Škrinjar, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first explain that it was never intended to abolish branch schools. Branch schools are governed by the Regulations on the Establishment of Schools, and according to this Regulation, which is no longer a year old, we now have a branch school shut down or no branch school. There is no rightful school, for example, in Osilnica, but the Ministry maintains it because it feels that there is a need. We understand that rural areas need to be preserved, we understand that school can be the cultural center of the place, and we stick to it. In no case have branches been compromised. In an article that was drawn and that is not even relevant, we suggested that a single school should be transformed into a branch. This is already regulated by the Rules of Procedure. So, in fact, if you want to, you don't even have to write this in law, but it's true that the rules are hard to impose or difficult to execute. We have schools that need to be transformed into a branch if they no longer meet the criteria of an independent school, and this rule has been in existence for decades and more. With regard to the common school environment, it is a matter of places where there are more schools that are widely sown, and whether there will be four sections of 15 students in two schools, a total of 60 students, or three sections of 20 students in these two schools, but these two principals cannot argue with each other as to who will have two and who will have one department, and therefore the congregation should decide with all sensitivity to the children's residence. This is also true in the case of kindergartens, and this is how the congregation distributes children in kindergartens. And no one ever thought that we should all suddenly move from one school to another, but this happens only at the beginning, so when we enter the first class. As far as the school environment and association are concerned. In the 2004-2008 mandate, Maribor decided that he had a common school environment. This was followed by the abolition of a school. At that time, the Ministry actively cooperated and helped the entire region to redistribute all teachers and allow specifics to maintain a superstandard number of teachers until a sufficient number of people were allowed to retire, so that due to this merger there was no Maribor, not the people of Maribor, nor the teachers of those schools of major problems. And the ministry also intends to do so in the future in order to avoid the problems that children, parents, and employees would have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As I see the renewed desire for a debate, I am opening the debate. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Discussion on Article 223 where two amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It is clear to me why the whole discussion was held in silence on the parent or the working body concerned. Because we were avoiding discussions on issues which, in my view, for the Ministry, are essential for the mega ministry. But at the time of his appointment, the minister said that he was not a minister for the students, but he was a minister of education. In order to be Minister of Education or Education, the interests of all stakeholders in the process must be taken into account. I could list a number of letters that I receive, concerned teachers and also parents who rightly expect answers in response to some of the debates. In view of the high level of understanding of the OECD recommendations in the 2004-2008 mandate, when there was a lot of talk on shutting down and modifying the school network, the recommendation to save money was also cited several times in the recommendations. And just as the state wants to save, they try to save local communities. Therefore, a kindergarten was established in the same building, past the recommendations of the profession and beyond. I'm not going to argue about whether they've found the best solutions in all cities, not that it was sometimes a temporary solution, because all children couldn't get involved in kindergarten. The question of a single school space has been addressed in different ways in the environments from which Members and Members come from. The case that you spoke about, Madam Secretary of State, is an example of two schools that do not stand side by side, but slightly in a smaller distance, we will say. Recently, however, two schools that stand side by side joined together. The question of distance, logistically, can be a major problem for parents. The big problem is how the two collectives will unite. Nor is it likely that all human resources matters will be resolved only by retirement. Because it is likely that different numbers are responsible for such very drastic differences as to how much, in the case of amended standards or in the case of amended standards and standards, the work of teachers will be lost, especially in that they are very large in education only for a certain period of time. But also a fixed-term job is a job that is in the next step perhaps someone doesn't get any more and has to look for their opportunity elsewhere. Now I don't know how teachers can get jobs in the economy. I can't imagine. I also cannot imagine how, in changed circumstances, it will be possible to reclassify people at a time when the needs for teachers will increase. And since I didn't have to listen to social and humanistic entries at the high school level yesterday, then something else has to be said: Were we predicting the Holy War on Sociology and Humanities? Today someone has already talked about the development report, although this was the first point of this meeting, but in the development report it is clear that the number of social and humanities enrollments is already declining, not by chance because we keep talking about how this is not a suitable study choice. In secondary education, the number of those who finish high school, general high school, is lower than those who finish or graduate from vocational secondary school. Where these problems cannot be solved and entered as some now show, this is a question of vocational schools or vocational schools, where Slovenia is again at the same level as everywhere in Europe, that these shorter programmes for young people are less attractive and perhaps another concept needs to be developed as this network moves. I know the Maribor network of vocational schools and vocational schools well enough to know that these are complicated things and how this generation has fallen. But once again, I point out that already because of changing the movement of enrollment in individual schools, the image of schools changes greatly. What would require and make it seem worth talking more about the same things, is that these are very sensitive issues, which are certainly not part of the Public Finance Balance Act, but they are very difficult professional issues, including collective bargaining and collective bargaining, and unfortunately this stage has been lacking in the drafting of this law. Let no one be offended if we are now talking about some things here in Parliament, but we should speak elsewhere before this, as has also been explained on the part of the working body concerned, what we are trying to say about the fact that the debate has not been held, as there is now a debate on the working body concerned. However, as this debate has been going on, I can tell you most precisely that we have received the word very correctly if we have spoken and there has been no response to the debates. And they were people in the academic sphere, they took time, they spent hours, but what does it help if things ended at this level, I would say, the irresponsibility. This isn't a dialogue. I am pleased, in particular, that the agreement with the SVIZ has now been concluded and that the things concerning the norms and standards will be postponed for a time after the adoption of this law. Allow me, however, to remain concerned and skeptical until I see what these collective bargaining will result in. None of us know that right now. But the perseverance with which some of the proposals here in the bill appeared and the long-standing irresponsibility that has been observed does not give these talks the best way. Once again, I wish a collective agreement had been reached. Because it's not a thing that's related to my personal views and interests, but I think it's the interests of schooling, their parents and educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is also wanted by Mrs Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Let's talk about sociology first. Of course, it's a moment at this time, it's a job, but I only have a good opinion about sociology, after all, I'm a sociologist, I'm a teacher, and I'm proud of it. As far as social dialogue is concerned. We will talk about this with the social partners, but we have already talked about it. We talked to the Association of Directors, we talked to the parental union, and at the edge, and at these negotiations, we also talked about normatives with the unions. Of course we'll keep doing this. You said we were unresponsive. I don't think we were. We answered questions in all these conversations. And we will. We have also answered the questions of citizens, citizens. I'd also like to talk about distances, as you say. The distances are those in which the congregation should be actively involved. The municipality is the one who is the founder of primary schools as well as kindergartens, and in our opinion it must really listen carefully to its citizens and parents with children and try to find the best way to educate children, to participate in school as well as in kindergarten. As far as teaching is concerned, you say we'd lose our jobs. That was never meant to be. We have prepared a call – this is the moment in the review of the competent bodies – for all of these teachers, who would be technological surpluses, possible, redistributed to European funds from national resources, thus overcoming this time of crisis or also waiting for the demographic change we are about to see. As far as vocational education is concerned, this is necessary, and we will be working on this, not only in some regions, but in all regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. The word she wanted was mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Thank you. Of course, we can have a very different picture of how much response has been achieved, but why parents then collect signatures and prepare petitions. Now, as far as European funds are concerned. I stress that if the school is the one that has to sign up to European programmes, it is also committed to finding means of participation. I don't know how we can count on saving measures when there's money missing everywhere, where they'll get the means to participate. As far as I am concerned, these are the reasons why they do not apply to such European programmes. Of course, I will be happy to correct my position if I also receive feedback from the school sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. There may also be an interest in the debate under Article 232 of the amendment. I can see it's not. We're moving on to Article 224. An amendment has been tabled. He wants someone to discuss it. I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Thank you. Well, it is symptomatic that some do not hold up the debate on these issues, and this has also been the case all the time. However, this is an article whose deletion we are proposing, which is in conjunction with Article 53, and since this article has not been subject to coordination with the social partners, I believe that neither this amendment will be adopted, nor this amendment. It is simply that the Ministry, the'mego ministry', has decided to bring together various public institutions, based on the claim that these various public institutions carry out similar or related activities and have a related theme in their description, so there is no reason not to unite them. Here, however, there is a real lack of response because individual public institutions have responded to the fact that no analysis has been made of where the integration of these various public institutions will lead. You can't shake the feeling that this government wants to have a sphere of research, so I've used a very neutral term. Because when we look at where these things actually lead, they lead to pooling, removing managers, then you can find an empty space for access to research projects and so on. These are public institutions with different degrees of independence or autonomy, which have different functions, some distinctly research, accompanying, other supervisory and so on, some are aimed at education and are more focused on youth education, learning populations, others back into lifelong learning, and it is a pity that we will start with such arguments about saving in fact the decomposition of some very successful educational chains, because for various reasons I say again, and I do not know why they do this, but the fact is that in Europe they also recognise our adult education system, I will say, as it was sometimes said, good experience, they are considered to be good practice, also for that population of young people who for a variety of reasons leave school early and later return to formal education. These are different projects, different approaches and so on, which, of course, will be decided by the government, is, at least to say, worth more serious consideration and analysis. For this reason, I am speaking in favour of the amendment which speaks of deleting this Article, just as he spoke of deleting Article 53. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. First of all, we, of course, met with the leadership of all these institutions and told them all about this intention and, of course, invited them to participate. Right now, things are going on with this law, and right after that, we're gonna start negotiating. Let me say that all these institutions, except for the Pedagogical Institute, which was established, by the way, by a government decision, came out of the former Education Institute. Indeed, it has already been shown in the past that synergies can also work well. What matters to us is that it's connected to the entire system. It is not possible to look at each score separately, a kindergarten in particular, a high school in particular, a university in particular, but it is necessary to look at the result, who and how it comes from our school system and how it is then found in life, both personal and professional. It is therefore necessary to look at the whole way, the completion of the schooling and then look down from this point of view, so that you have even a vertical rather than a partial approach to individual programmes. Just bringing these institutions together, not all on average, but museums together with the teaching institute, no one has talked about it, and it will help to bring together this life and career path to be observed, aided and explored in terms of achieving the best equipment of the student for personal growth and, of course, for the career path to the future. Let me say that, of course, these institutions are already very well cooperating with each other, but even better, because there are still some bureaucratic obstacles between these matters, the Pedagogical Institute has been excellent in working with the Republic Examination Centre and the Institute for Education. CMEPIUS will probably not be the subject of this merger because it is a completely different activity, as well as the Centre for School and School Activities, where it is also another, parallel, leisure school. We've thought this through, reviewed all the tasks of the annual work plans. These analyses have been made and, of course, we will work transparently, with information and also with the cooperation of all, with leadership, with a view to doing something best, a good institution that will, of course, be able to observe this individual's way through education to the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Thank you. I wasn't talking about combining museums with the school field. I am surprised, however, by the Secretary of State, that the government will decide to intervene in what you say is a good practice. If it turns out to be a good thing, if the State Examination Centre and the Pedagogical Institute are involved, why should these two institutions or these two institutions join together? I had the opportunity to cooperate with the State Examination Centre, which deals with purely other matters, at a different level, and otherwise has infrastructures, in order to carry out tasks related to the confidentiality of the material, etc. I really can't shake the feeling that there's been a noise in communication. I believe that the postfestum can also be informed, that things can also be said later and said, even if someone can be called to a conversation, the position is expressed to him, such and so on, and the question is whether or not the contrary arguments are weighed and whether it is possible to hope that at least one of these talks, which were at the Ministry, would lead to a solution that the opposite party would have the feeling that it had an executive knowledge of the authorities with its professional arguments. You know very well that the bob against the wall was this call about the Book Agency, at the Slovenian Film Centre and something else that you can talk about one more thing, even here, I prefer not to discuss what is going on in sports. There are things that point to cleaning, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask if anyone has a phone in the hall to do this, does it outside the hall. As I see that there is no longer a desire to discuss Article 224 or the amendment tabled, we are moving on to Article 225. Two amendments have been tabled. I see no one wants to discuss it. We move on to 226th Article, the amendment tabled. No desire to discuss it. We move on to Article 229. The amendment was also tabled. I can see it's not a wish. We're going to 230a. an article where the amendment has also been tabled. There's no desire to discuss it either. Two amendments have been tabled in Article 231. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Thank you. This amendment and the debate on the proposal to delete this article will, of course, be spent not only talking about the school part of this legislation, but also about the experiment that has been – falling into standards and standards in preschool education. I think that several times in the debate, and not only in the National Assembly, but also in the media, it has been found that data on the burden of educators, on how well things are arranged in Slovenian preschool education compared to other European countries, are diverging. In order to demonstrate how the numbers are presented, these are the basis for the norms and standards that these differences or these differences result from different data captures. Data are not as good for Slovenian preschool education as some try to prove. However, data on gaming surfaces for an individual child are even more worrying. So much for the claims of luxury, which is supposed to be in preschool education. The former government has tried to be ashamed of the inability to enroll all children who would like to be enrolled in preschool education by already reaching into legislation that allows for a slightly easier establishment of kindergartens, and this is where the local communities have gone along. But in particular, I stress that it is a shame that it is impossible to register, to suck up all children from the environment, but responsibility on the part of local communities who must find funds in their budget if they are to act in accordance with their establishment, in order to improve the quality of life in the local community, to ensure that the right time begins to take care of kindergartens. It does not show that many kindergartens are very old in our environment, such as after 20 years of age, that kindergartens need renewals and that all the problems in this regard are likely to not be able to be hung only on amended standards and standards, because the issue of investment will also have to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u103	The word is wanted by Mrs. Mojca Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. As far as kindergarten space is concerned, this situation is improving. But it is also true that if we could arrange a school network, as we said earlier, that 60 students would have in three departments, then we could take advantage of the extra space that is now in the primary school space. In particular, 75% of school areas are occupied in Ljubljana, which means that there are still opportunities for school parts, at least temporarily, to be transformed into kindergartens and thus solve the problem of including children in kindergartens. As far as the legislation is concerned, once again, coordination with the social partners will be a matter. It is true, however, that if you have the highest standards in kindergarten today, this is rarely achieved, because the Court of Auditors, with detailed analysis, has found that 10% is missing in kindergartens every day. This is also proved by our application with which we allocate this contribution, with which kindergarten is free for the parents of another child. These children are 14,000, and this is a sufficient sample to detect the absence of child abstention. So we can say that groups are never completely perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I see that there is no longer any interest in the debate on Article 231 and the amendments tabled. We move on to Article 233, where two amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to 235, where two amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] The amendment is also tabled by Article 237. There's no desire to discuss it. We move on to Article 238, where the amendment has been tabled. There's no desire to discuss it. An amendment has been tabled for the new 246.a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] An amendment has been tabled to Article 247. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] By 247.a., an amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to article 251 where the amendment has been tabled. There's no desire to discuss it. Article 255 is amended. No one wants to discuss it. An amendment has been tabled to Article 257. I see there's no desire to discuss it. The amendment is also tabled under Article 258. I see there's no desire to discuss it. For the new 260a, an amendment is tabled and Annex 1. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] Following the final consideration of all the amendments tabled, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Aleš Zivkovic, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Messengers and Members! To conclude, I would like to say a few words about the law on balancing public finances and the need for it, as well as the need for a budget, which this law is actually trying to support in some way. Some observations were heard by honourable Members and Members of Parliament on the indevelopment of this law, this budget. It might be worth mentioning that this year we can agree that this budget rebalancing will result in a certain economic restriction, but such a rebalancing is necessary for further fiscal consolidation in 2013 and for the start of the economic and economic situation in Slovenia in 2013. In this regard, it would also be worth mentioning some statements by visible representatives of the economy that support such a balance and further consider it to be development-oriented. As regards the costs of the public sector, there was also quite a few speeches. I would point out that the agreement concluded with the public sector trade unions is not a negligible thing. I think that through this agreement, trade unions have actually recognised their responsibility and their need to share part of the fate of this economy, this economic policy and the recession that has taken place in Slovenia, and feel the need to participate in this crisis not only on the shoulders of the economy. There was also a lot of talk about raising VAT. As far as raising VAT is concerned, it would be imperative to mention that this is a measure that would be too much of a burden on the social poorest, and that is precisely the kind of thing that needs to be considered whether we will be additionally burdening the economy or additionally burdening the population so that we can keep the state spending at the level at which we have it today. That would be kind of it in this part. To conclude, I would say that we believe that, in fact, by this law and possible confirmation of this law, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, the path of graduateism that we have witnessed since the time of independence has been cut short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Excuse me, Mr. Weber, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Well, in this Law on Public Finance Balance, I would like to draw attention to another important amendment that was enacted under the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public rail infrastructure and also on the balance sheet, so that I have a question for Mr Secretary from the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, the Public Finance Balance Act will state that investment in transport infrastructure and the maintenance of transport infrastructure will be reflected in the State Budget Development Programme Plan. The National Budget Development Programmes plan, if we look at it, does not contain investments, but has only amounts in particular areas, but does not have an overview of the investment of transport infrastructure, which, in this case, we consider to be railway and road infrastructure when it comes to dealing with this law. I ask whether the Government will prepare a harmonisation amendment to the budget balance, which will complement the development programme plan with a review of investments in road and rail infrastructure? This law points out that the review of these investments is an integral part of the balance sheet. Perhaps the answer to this question would then, if necessary, benefit from further clarification in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Zivkovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. With regard to the specific question, because there is no representative of the department, I find it difficult to answer in detail, but it is true that the Government will have to work with the reallocations since the rebalancing process and since its confirmation and all the other harmonisations that are necessary, so I believe that the matter that you are also asking is also a matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the debate. We are at the 260th Article and Mr Janko Weber has been announced. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Thank you. We didn't get along, it's not a problem of redistribution, it's a text that's written down in this law, and when it's adopted, it's going to apply. Indeed, all investments and measures in the maintenance of transport infrastructure must be included in the national budget development programme plan. Once again, the budget development plan does not contain an overview of these investments. Therefore, if you do not think about it, I am procedurally proposing that, pending the 2012 budget rebalancing vote, the ministry responsible for transport should provide the parliamentary groups with an overview of investments and maintenance in road and rail infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. So we have recorded your procedural proposal and will make a request, your request and your proposal accordingly. Since I see that there is no longer a desire for a debate, I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Decision on the Summer Plan for the Equalisation of Real Estate of the State for the year 2012. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. With us is Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a decree addressed by the National Assembly was drafted by the Government on the basis of proposals submitted by individual real estate managers in relation to the planned priorities and objectives in 2012. Following the approval of the decree in the National Assembly, the Government will, on the basis of Article 12 of the Real Estate Administration Act, establish a quota within the limits within which operators may, pending the fulfilment of the legal conditions, adopt spatial needs which cannot be pre-planned or unforeseen circumstances on the market that dictate a rapid response and take into account the financial plans of the budgetary users, may conclude legal transactions relating to real estate that are not covered by the relevant management plan. The total income under this heading is thus € 149 million 772 thousand 39 in 2012. The total expenditure on real estate management in 2012 amounts to EUR 94 million 803 thousand 839. In the material you have also received a table where these expenditure and revenue are more precisely determined. But if there's any questions, then I'm still at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 2nd meeting, on 26 April 2012, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for 2012 submitted by the Government under Articles 11 and 13 of the Real Estate Act and Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The representative of the applicant, the Minister for Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr Senko Plitčanič, explained firstly, in a brief explanation of the motion for a decree, that the fifth paragraph of Article 11 of the Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities provided that the plan for the management of immovable property should be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget. However, the same provision is contained in Article 13, paragraph 6, concerning movable property. On the basis of those legal provisions, a proposal for a decree has been submitted to the National Assembly, together with the 2012 State Budget Rebalance, and is drawn up for reasons of transparency, consisting of plans for the management of immovable and movable property covered by the 11 tables annexed to the Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Mag, then took the floor. The method of Hrvat Pirnat, which stressed that when considering the draft decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects of the legislative and legal service, I have no comments. The tables in the annex are also properly structured according to the legal requirements, whereas the substantive issues of individual items of the Legislative and Legal Service are not dealt with. The proposal for a decree was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for State regulation, which had no comments on the proposal for a decree. After a brief discussion, the Committee voted in accordance with Rule 128 of its Rules of Procedure on all parts of the draft decree and adopted them. As no amendments were adopted to the second reading ruling at the home labour body, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a decision on the State's real estate management plan for 2012 be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I don't even know if anything has to be added to this decree. I can only say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will adopt a proposal for a decree together with the 2012 budget rebalancing. The country must certainly act as a good host, even in times of severe financial, economic and social crisis. Therefore, it will, of course, sell off property which it does not need and whose maintenance burdens the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the revenues from the sale and rental of real estate would amount to around EUR 129 million. The sale of movable property, however, would generate about €22 million according to the decree. That is why we will also support this motion for a decree in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u119	Thank you. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greeting! Members and Members, this is the first time that we are considering the Proposal for a decree on the State's annual real estate management plan for 2012 prepared by the Government on the basis of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, which was adopted in October 2010. We'll support the decree. In the beginning, however, let me remind you that so far we have addressed the decisions on annual management plans with our country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per capita, and especially for the authorities of the state administration and the judicial authorities. The 2012 Real Estate Action Plan shows a total revenue of EUR 149 million, 772 thousand 39 and an expenditure of EUR 24 million, 803 thousand, 839. The decree covers plans for public administrations and judicial bodies, public economic institutions, public agencies and public institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. However, plans for other state authorities are not covered by this Decision. For reasons of transparency, the real estate management plan is prepared in eleven tables. In the introduction, the Minister explained that the classification of individual items, real estate and movable goods into the decree does not mean that legal transactions for all these things will also be realized. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want the state and those responsible for the conclusion of legal transactions to act economically and not sell assets just like that, without serious consideration, and only to allow a few euros to flow into the budget. But we'd like to draw attention to the following. We hope that the monuments owned by the State that are archaeological sites or archaeological sites that are protected under special regulations or international treaties whose signatory is the Republic of Slovenia will not be alienated or, if they are already alienated, their preservation and public accessibility must be improved. The applicant specifically pointed out in the substantive explanation that Tables 2 and 2a contain only those real estates which meet all the conditions for the implementation of the disposal procedure laid down in the specific rules. At this point, I would point out the possibility of transferring individual land or buildings or parts of a building that have the status of a cultural monument to the local community if they were interested in the property and acted economically and tried to inhale its life. One such example is in the municipality of Nova Gorica, where they want to gain the castle Rihemberk in their own use. Table 8 of the Land Management Plan covers thousands of 160 plot numbers with indicative values and it is difficult for Members and Members to assess whether these are real numbers, whether they are really more than 400 plots of land that are unsuspectable, whether the renovations are really unfounded and similar. And if I go back to the beginning of the debate, I would like to make three more proposals for decisions on the real estate management plan, namely the Council of State, the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly. The three institutions are considered to submit a proposal for a real estate management plan to the Government and their proposal is only forwarded to the National Assembly. Such an arrangement is the result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. The decision on the motion for a decree will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, on Friday, 11 May 2012, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. It's a day's work. In accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, in the framework of agenda items 5.A, 5.B and 5.C, we will hold joint introductory presentations and a joint debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the Roadmap to the Real Estate of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, the Proposal for a Decision on the Roadmap to the Real Estate of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Roadmap to the Real Estate of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Proposals for decrees have been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motions of the decrees. This is Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It's about point five. In view of the independence of other State authorities, in the specific case of the Constitutional Court, the Council of State and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the plans of conduct for these authorities are essentially the same and the procedure for their adoption is slightly different. These authorities shall report the action plan independently for a given year and shall only be sent by the Government upon their proposal to the National Assembly. That is how paragraph 3 of Article 11 of the Real Estate Act provides for this. This is how the proposed plans are adopted in accordance with this procedure. These decrees are formally prepared in the same way as the decree it addressed and proposed to the National Assembly for adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If I briefly introduce points 5.A, 5.B and 5.C. Under point 5.a, the State Council in 2012 envisages only the purchase of two movables totalling €49 000 120. The estimated purchase value in both cases amounts to more than EUR 10 000, which means that the necessary acquisition is actually to be included in the current plan for this year. Under point 5.b — Proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Here the Constitutional Court proposes the adoption of a plan to rent buildings or parts of buildings. It is envisaged to rent 9 apartments, with the estimated sum of monthly rents amounting to EUR 1 000 938, in order to stress that these are the official apartments occupied by the employees of the Constitutional Court. In short, point 5.c – Proposal for a decree on the actual property management plan of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, however, the National Assembly plans to rent business premises at four additional locations, requiring funds of EUR 468 thousand 440 and the National Assembly plans to acquire three new movements of EUR 545 thousand. So much for now. If there are any questions, I'm available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The motions for resolutions were addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the Committee's reports, I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much once again for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members! At its 6th urgent meeting on 8 May 2012, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Property Management Plan of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Property Management Plan of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia for 2012 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Real Property Management Plan of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Mr Helmut Hartman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, explained in a supplementary explanation that the preparation of the real estate management plan and its adoption in the National Assembly in the form of a decision is a formal condition allowing operators to continue to deal with real property. In the case of independent budgetary users, the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities provides that the Government shall send a real estate management plan to their proposal for adoption by the National Assembly. On individual proposals, he added a substantive explanation to the second and third proposals and said the following. The actual property management plan of the Constitutional Court includes immovable property, specifically empty service apartments, which the controller intends to rent in 2012. The 2012 Plan for Real Estate Management of the National Assembly includes a plan to rent real estate at four additional locations totalling EUR 448 thousand 440 and a plan to acquire movable property, namely information equipment worth EUR 545 thousand. Following that, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in her presentation of her written opinions that the Law-Legal Service had no comments in terms of its powers to the motions. The tables annexed to the individual decrees are properly structured according to the legal requirements and the substantive issues of each item are not dealt with by the Legislative and Legal Service. The following was a report or explanation by the representative of the State Council, who explained in the explanation of the first proposal that it included a plan for the acquisition of movable property by the State Council of two investments, the purchase of which is in line with the Ministry of Finance and included in the proposal for the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it is a matter of purchasing a replacement vehicle due to the violent alienation of the vehicle so far and the replacement of two servers due to the transition to a standalone information system. The members of the Committee did not discuss the proposals for decisions. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the proposals and adopted them. Since the amendments were not adopted by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration to the National Assembly for the second reading of the draft decree on the actual property management plan of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Decision on the real property management plan of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia and the Proposal for a Decision on the real property management plan of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. As I note that the parliamentary groups have not decided to present their position, we have concluded by presenting our views and are going to have a general debate on the proposals for resolutions. All the applicants have checked out. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, there is anyone else who wishes to discuss, both Members and Members of the National Assembly, as well as representatives of the Government. As I see that there is no longer interest in the debate, I conclude the debate. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motions for decrees, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the motions will be made today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2011 and 2012, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Zivkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Messengers and Members! We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. This is a law of a relative technical nature, and in particular its purpose is to ensure the implementation of the budget or the amendments envisaged by the 2012 budget rebalancing. In particular, the law refers to some of the essential amendments I am introducing below: amendments to compensation for the abolition of the penalty for confiscation of property and amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. These changes have an impact on obligations under two bonds, namely Liabilities of RS 21 and RS 39, which is why it is also necessary to amend the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. The additional changes relate to the reallocation of spending rights, i.e. changes confer greater responsibility on the direct user or proposer of the financial plans, as well as the reallocation of spending rights with a view to better achieving the objectives and in the programmes and priorities of the budgetary users. An additional major change is the retention of individual expenditure of the budget, i.e. if, in 2012, the negative economic developments lead to an increase in expenditure or a reduction in the revenue of the budget, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, may suspend the implementation of individual expenditure of the State budget for more than 45 days, but not longer than by the end of September 2012. By means of measures to suspend the implementation of individual public budget expenditure, the Government may suspend the takeover of commitments and the reallocation of budgetary resources necessary for the purpose of taking on commitments. Furthermore, the amendments also refer to the correction of the average, which you know is changing because of the level of obligations in the municipalities due to the enforcement or the adoption of a law on the balance of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u128	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, welcome! At its 19th urgent meeting on 8 May 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent working body, considered this proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and supported it. The Committee was given an opinion at its meeting on the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text submitted and drew attention to the provisions of Articles 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 14 and 15 of the legislative proposal. On the basis of that opinion, the amendments were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of public finances, which considered the legal text to be an interested working body. In explaining the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of that service stressed that the comments submitted in the amendments, resulting in the amendments, were duly taken into account. The discussion presented the views of the Ministry of Finance, which also raised some questions. The responses provided show that our banks have favourable resources from the European Central Bank. The question was also raised as to whether these resources or those available resources were fully used. However, country deposits also represent an important source of funding for banks. On the other hand, the Government has good cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia and with certain other banks with regard to the provision of capital adequacy, which is in the domain of the central bank. However, with regard to the open issue of the extension of deposits towards the transmission of comprehensive information by the Bank of Slovenia at the site, it would address the topics raised at the special meeting of the Committee. In other words, the Committee has somehow committed itself to considering the issue of deposits and lending by the European Central Bank at one of the future meetings. The conclusion further explained that there were no objections to the proposed reduction of averages for municipalities at coordination meetings by municipalities. In addition, parallel agreements were held at the said coordinations on changes to the sectoral legislation regarding the level of resources intended to normally carry out the most necessary tasks of local communities. And last but not least, the balance of municipal costs [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] cohesive stimulation is already contained within the framework of a coalition agreement. [[...]] Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 4, 5, 7, 11, 13 and 15 of the legislative proposal and voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! It is a law of a technical nature called ZIPRO, whose novelty is always accompanied by either a budget or a balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law aims to legitimize the solutions necessary for the smooth implementation of the adopted budget. The proposed law governs the system of procedures for the preparation and implementation of the State budget and other elements of the financial operation of the State. The adoption of the proposed law is necessary because the budget does not contain provisions governing material content. There is an exception to the charging of free cash in the single account system, namely, the State budget, in addition to investments in the single fund account system, may also be invested in legal entities established to ensure financial stability in the euro area. The proposed arrangement allows the management of the State budget’s free funds by temporarily transferring the funds to the European Shareholder Society. In view of the Government’s decision not to proceed with the procedure for setting up a public real estate fund, it is necessary to ensure the possibility of drawing up plans for the management of the work of immovable property which would otherwise have become the property of the fund. With a view to allowing for the maximum possible flow of assets from the state's immovable property to the state budget, unpaid transfers of property rights on the State's immovable property in 2012 are prohibited on the basis of the general rules. In view of the optimum exploitation of real estate, it is possible to conclude rental contracts and real estate lease contracts without the prior involvement of the legal business in the real estate lease plan. In doing so, such contracts must be concluded for an indefinite period of two months, allowing for divorce as soon as possible. Among other things, the law allows the Government to open new items during the year to implement common European policies on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for finance and to determine how to ensure the rights of consumption on them. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the opening of new budget lines during the year, except for exceptions to the rules governing the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, is not permissible. The amendment of the provision allows for the opening of new and the use of inactive items from previous years. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group supported all amendments, which we also signed and followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on the home working body of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I also announce support for the law by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u132	Good-bye! Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! As my predecessor has already said, this is indeed a technical law that is urgently needed if we want to implement the budget or the rebalancing. However, I would like to highlight three things on behalf of Positive Slovenia. The first is the borrowing of the state budget. The volume of government budget indebtedness from originally projected 967, that is, less than billions, increases to 2 billion 300, 1.3 billion more than in the adopted budget. The big words about this, "debt is over, we will no longer be in debt," the colleagues also broke off with the counter they had on their website – perhaps it would be good to restore it – and in addition to this billion 300, it has to be said that when they took over the government, they received it at the expense of the previous government and the previous debt, I think about a billion euros and they were very critical to this billion, they got that billion in the account and they spent it on the implementation of this year's budget. This government's joint commitment to the implementation of this year's budget will be around 3 billion 300. The other thing I'd like to point out is payment hands. Payments remain for 30 days as they have been. In recent years, I believe that every year, when the law on the implementation of the budget has been adopted, an amendment has been tabled to shorten these payment deadlines. We didn't get an answer on the board why this wasn't included. Today, perhaps we would be able to get an answer, mainly from Members and less from the government, why we have stayed for 30 days, because there has always been a lot of talk about how this would have had a very positive impact on our economy, which I can also agree with. The third thing I'd like to point out is reassignment. You are greatly increasing the volume of redeployment, namely the reallocation, which is under the authority of the Government. For the 200 million euro circus, you will have to redistribute just because of such a rebalancing, because at the moment there is about 200 million holes in the balance. Such a rebalancing is truly an escape if I use the words of one of your Members. The Minister of Finance said on the Committee that, of course, he took responsibility for the preparation of this balance and would not continue to throw it at public servants, as we can hear several times in this Chamber. A great deal of responsibility, Minister or Secretary of State, will also be taken over for the implementation of this balance, which, as has already been said, may even have more than €200 million in holes. This 200 million-dollar hole is the reason that we cannot support the proposal for a law in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 is a technical law which is required to be submitted by the Government. The budget does not contain provisions governing material content. This proposed law will make it possible to implement the budget that we have just considered. However, I would point out two of the solutions proposed. In particular, we consider important changes to the possibility of reallocation of funds between programmes and policies, and changes to allow for the retention of individual expenditure of the budget. The possibility of redistribution has always been, and is, this time, and will enable directly proposers of the financial plans and the Government to achieve its objectives and programme priorities more effectively. The Government's ability to hold back expenditure for more than 45 days, but by the end of September at the latest, as already stated by government representatives, means an appropriate and, in our opinion, a necessary response to the situation where, due to negative economic developments, expenditure or revenue in the budget would be increased. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u136	Respected and respected! The coalition will today vote on a budget based on uncoordinated documents, notably the Public Finance Balance Act, which provides the basis for austerity measures. Some of the compromises that can, in principle, be welcomed and contribute to the agreement reached with the unions, however, do not follow the proper balance of the State budget itself. In doing so, we would like to draw the attention of the Social Democrats to the issue of reducing the averages of Slovenian municipalities. Indeed, for the second half of the year, a 2 % reduction is fixed, which according to the government's representatives' previous claims would correspond to a 10% reduction in the salaries of public servants. Therefore, we are asked whether, given the compromises that the average has been too low for the municipalities, given that the reduction in the salaries of public servants is lower than anticipated. In doing so, we would like to point out in particular that this may exacerbate the conditions of employment of municipalities, especially major Slovenian municipalities and municipalities. This answer is still expected from the Government today. We note that it does not have to be opposed to allowing the Government, under the new Article 30a of the Law, to temporarily suspend the implementation of the individual expenditure of the State budget for more than 45 days on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, if the negative economic developments increase in expenditure and reduce the revenue of the budget. It is estimated that in this focused and unpredictable picture, such a determination has been made. Of course, this requires the Government to approach the preparation of a new budget or its balance as soon as possible in the event of such a situation. The law also proposes to amend the provisions of the redistribution of spending rights and confers greater competence on the direct user or financial plan proponent, as well as on the Government in redistributing spending rights in order to better achieve the objectives and programme priorities of budgetary users. These provisions are also understood as greater freedom for budgetary users to redistribute funds under the main programme. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the law we are talking about now lays down the conditions for the enforceability of the state budget. We believe that the state budget voted by the coalition today has difficulties with its enforceability, as the basis on which it is prepared is no longer aligned with the basis on which the austerity measures are based. For all of this, the Social Democrats will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette agrees with the proposal for a budget rebalancing and will therefore also support the accompanying law governing the technique and rules of the game in the implementation of the budget itself. Based on everything we've heard, I wouldn't have anything to add. Once again, I stress that we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! Before us is the last of the laws of the so-called savings package, for Slovenia an extremely fateful savings package, which is the first step towards balancing public finances and improving the macroeconomic situation of our country. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is the basis for the implementation of budgets, could also be called a precondition for the budget rebalancing of this year, a budget that is directed extremely cost-effective and for a long time reduces public spending and thus approximates the budget deficit of 3% of GDP. The proposed law therefore regulates the procedures, preparation and implementation of the State budget, without which the implementation of the State budget is not possible. The essential solutions provided by the proposed law are to the fullest extent relevant to the provisions of the redistribution of spending rights, where the reallocation of spending rights gives greater competence to the direct budgetary user or to the Government to redistribute the available resources itself or itself in order to ensure that they are used as appropriately as possible. It also introduces temporary suspension from the resolution of individual public budget expenditure for more than 45 days, in cases of increases in expenditure or reductions in revenue due to negative economic developments and the Ministry of Finance will have the power to adopt such a decision. The proposed law also follows the government's direction not to continue with the procedures for the establishment of the public property fund of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is therefore stipulated that a decree on the State's annual real estate management plan for 2012, which we have discussed recently, is being applied to the management of the state's dedicated immovable property. The proposed law also operationalises the amendment of the two laws governing the issue of certain government bonds, so that the issue of those bonds is considered to be the extent of the State's debt and no longer constitutes an exception, as has been the case so far. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are still aware that we can only spend as much as we create, so the entire package of austerity laws, in which are also proposed novels of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, is of exceptional, even historical significance for the future and, consequently, the sovereignty of our country. We are aware that the adoption of the proposed measures is an important step towards gaining the trust of both the European Commission and international financial institutions, as this will send a signal to them that we are self-sufficient in the area of public finances. This is the only way to preserve the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in the form that is enshrined in our Constitution. The State without financial sovereignty is no longer a single country, but only a state is left to the mercy and mercy of the so-called coerced managers who, in return for the necessary financial resources, would not have made any decisions that the State would never have been willing to take if it had been completely sovereign. To avoid this in the Slovenian People's Party, as has been said several times, we strongly support the proposed measures to balance public finances, including the proposed amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which will enable the technical implementation of the balance for this year. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u141	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. What a lovely greeting to all present! This is also another law governing the system of procedures for the preparation and implementation of the State budget and other elements of the financial operation of the State. One of the solutions presented by the proposal for a law is that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, may temporarily suspend the implementation of the individual expenditure of the State budget by more than 45 days, provided that negative economic movements result in an increase in expenditure or a reduction in the revenue of the budget. The proposed amendments to the provisions on redistribution of spending rights confer greater responsibility on the direct user or financial plan proposer, as well as on the Government in redistributing spending rights in order to better achieve the objectives and programme priorities of budgetary users. The direct user may only assume commitments in future years if he has planned expenditure for this purpose in the adopted development programme plan. The proposal lays down an exception to the charging of free cash in the single account system, namely, the State budget, in addition to investments in the single fund account system, may also impose free cash on legal persons established to ensure financial stability in the euro area. The proposed arrangement allows the management of the State budget’s free cash resources by temporarily transferring the funds to the European Shareholder Society. In view of the Government’s decision not to proceed with the procedure for setting up a public real estate fund, it is necessary to ensure the possibility of drawing up plans for the management of the work of immovable property which would otherwise have become the property of the fund. With a view to allowing for the greatest possible inflow of assets from the state's real estate to the state budget, it is prohibited to transfer property rights free of charge on the State's immovable property in 2012 on the basis of the general rules. In view of the optimum exploitation of real estate, it is possible to conclude rental contracts and real estate lease contracts without the prior involvement of the legal business in the real estate lease plan. In doing so, such contracts shall be concluded for an indefinite period of two months, which shall allow for the possibility of divorce of such a contract as soon as possible. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill, as the adoption of this law provides the legal basis for the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, which is at 2.20 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote in half an hour. That's 2:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u144	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Government! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the National Assembly on decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will vote in the next order. In the framework of the budget package, first on the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance, then on the proposals for decisions, then on the Proposal for a 2012 budget rebalancing, and finally on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. First of all, we continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance. Procedural, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u145	I ask, Mr President, is the law in line with the law, with the constitution, and what about when the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on this law? What stage? He's had a lot of changes. It seems to me extremely important that we get this view, that we know what happened to the comments and what will also happen in the future with, say, a disagreement between the individual law and the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. This question, Mr Meh, is more substantive than procedural. The Legislative and Legal Service has given its opinion and its comments on the law, which has been largely taken into account by the amendment's proposers with their amendments. At this stage, we cannot once again acquire or have no need to regain the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. When deciding the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this National Assembly takes as much account as possible, but sometimes at some point there are different positions, risks are taken and, of course, sometimes there is a constitutionality assessment. It's nothing unusual. However, if you are asking about possible inconsistencies between the articles, which is a procedural issue, we will come to at the right time, as soon as the third reading is completed, when we see whether there is still a need for any harmonisation amendment. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11. 5. 2012. On the table, you have an overview of the amendments tabled to the amended bill on public finances balance, an urgent procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Misich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll ask you the next question. Is the law in line with the proposal for a rebalancing? And as you said, to a large extent, they have taken into account the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service at the time of the final writing of the bill, I wonder whether this practice will continue in the future, so that we will actually only partially take into account and risk the judgement of the Constitutional Court, which will then possibly repeal any provision of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. This is not in fact a procedural question or a proposal, either, but it is a matter of substantive debate. In the individual amendments, you could have a substantive debate, even argue that an article or an amendment is in conformity with the Constitution or is not in conformity with the Constitution, and of course we will not be discussing this anymore, so we are going to vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 – the amendment of the coalition groups. If this amendment is adopted, the second amendment becomes irrelevant to the same Article. Is there a desire to explain your voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] The voting device doesn't work. I will publish the result: 55 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, the amendment under point 2 has become irrelevant. Procedurally, Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u149	Your Honor! Yesterday we received a review, today we are supposed to come to a new bench, but I note that at least some Members have a problem that we do not have a review, at least not one that would be equipped with today's date. I respectfully ask that we find out if we all have a proper checkup in front of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u150	A review of the amendments, number 411/01/12, was distributed about 15 minutes ago, date 11. 5. 2012. In principle, we should all have it on our hands. If you don't have one, my friend Tonin will hand you a copy. May I take it you have an amendment review? Yeah. Well, you see, this shows how much easier it will be when we come to a fully electronic vote, and the moment the amendment review is introduced into the information system, it will be considered that the business conditions for decision-making are met. Now we have to check whether we have them physically on our hands or not. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 6, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 16, the proposal for a coalition parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 19, the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 53, proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members, 28 to 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 55. The amendment referred to in point 1 is essentially the same as the amendment referred to in point 2, and the two amendments are therefore voted on together. Voice explanation, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. With this amendment, the procedure in the review to be followed shall be initiated by duplicating the amendments providing for the deletion of the article. There are 15 such lines in the laws concerning the school's field. This just confirms what the Social Democrats have said at the time of the amendments that there are many articles in this law that do not really belong in the Public Finance Balance Act. And since an agreement has been reached between the social partners and the government to make these articles that will be deleted, in fact, the subject of autonomous collective bargaining, of course, is now that the amendments of the Social Democrats are in the first place and the second place of the coalition everywhere. Since the Committee on Finance once saw that, in the vote, coalition Members and Members had overlooked that the amendment was being covered and then the article remained in law, I expect that reading in this review will now be so precise and your warnings, Mr President, that there would not be any article left in the law that the negotiators agreed would not be included in this law. My satisfaction and the satisfaction of the Social Democrats would, of course, be significantly greater – but this is not a matter of a satisfactory spirit – if sober judgment prevails and other articles proposed to be deleted by the Social Democrats, i.e. these amendments, as this would mean that you agree that these articles do not have anything to look for in the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, because they are subject to expert judgements and coordination between the social partners, the professional and interested public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u152	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much, President. I am also pleased that we will now get a number of amendments to the decision-making process, which will confirm what we have already said in committee debates, and also here in the consideration of the Public Finance Balance Act, that this law significantly interferes with the field of the Education Act, of course also in other laws, which, of course, changes only matter and improves the conditions for working in these institutions. That is why, of course, a lot of efforts have been made so that we could tell your Members, the Government and, of course, the public somehow what was the problem, where was the problem, and why the government has gone about solving this problem in such a way, not through a debate, an expert debate in the public and among experts. Today, it has been said that the White Paper was written with some experts, while others resigned. Of course, experts who work and create some material or document have every right to withdraw, but they have cooperated and then the power of the argument does not prevail. That's why I'm glad he met. But I'm sad as I said before, because the power of the unions that threatened the referendum had to show up, and that's the only reason why this matter withdrew. I will support these amendments in favour of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u154	Thank you. So now we're going to decide on amendments that have been tabled in agreement. It's like power. We are voting on the amendment to Article 55 under points one and two together. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 57. Equally, the amendments under points one and two are substantively the same and are therefore being voted on together. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of Article 59. The amendments under point one and two are also applicable here, and they are therefore voted on together. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 60. The amendments under points one and two are essentially the same and are therefore voted on jointly. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 61. It's the same thing. The amendments under points one and two are essentially the same. We are voting on both of them together. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 62. It's as good as the previous amendment. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 63. It's the same thing. We are voting on the amendments under both points together. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 69. Rapporteur Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The trick didn't work. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 71. Here, however, the amendments under points one and two of substance are the same, and we are voting on both of them together. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 75. Rapporteur Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 84. The amendments under points 1 and 2 are essentially the same, and we are voting on both of them together. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 85, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 87, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 88, the proposal of the coalition's parliamentary group. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 89. The amendments under points 1 and 2 are essentially the same, and we are voting on both of them together. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 91, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 104, a proposal by the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 135, the proposal for the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 165, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 169, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 169. We have three amendments under three consecutive points, all three are substantively the same, so we will vote on all three together. Mag. Squire Tavš, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain my vote on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, and at the same time, honourable President, I also express my joy that every single trick you have failed, you and your government coalition. After almost having been seen or agreed that trade unions should in principle support this government work under the Public Finance Balance Act, and when they said that due to certain cases that were harmonised to a certain extent, they would not call a referendum on the basis of this law, the Government came up with a proposal to introduce a so-called mini-retirement reform through the side door. What's this all about? It is simply because the government wanted for certain categories, I will say, shorten or simply remove from the existing law the so-called credit periods. So this is what is now considered to be the period of the first year of the child's life – in short, it goes according to the existing legislation during the insurance period – taking into account the added age, the actual time of compulsory service of the military period, the alternative civil service or the time of basic training for the police reserve, and so on. In short, the government wanted nothing to do with you, nothing to me, despite any agreement with the unions or the social partners, has determined to exempt it from the current legislation and to introduce it, as has already been said, through the side door, into the Public Finance Balance Act. This, in our opinion, means the so-called mini reform. I am pleased that you will vote on our amendment to make this provision a line from your bill, and of course you will not lastly support your proposal, because you have obviously listened to all the warnings that we have given to the Positive Slovenia Group as well, but that what you wanted to do is not as funny as it seemed at first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u156	Thank you. We will decide on three identical amendments to Article 169a. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 170. Equally, so the amendments under points 1, 2 and 3 are substantively identical. Excuse me, if the amendment under point 1 is adopted, this is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, then the amendments under points 2 and 3 are irrelevant. So we will first decide on the amendment by 170.a. of the Member of the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 50. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment under points 2 to 170a. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 3 will be irrelevant. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. He has the word "mag" to explain his voice. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u157	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please support our amendment. It's essentially identical. The only thing that is, is that we're putting this behind us for a year. That's all. The financial impact of this austerity measure is not significant. If we delay this for one year, we will give young women the right and the opportunity to decide how and what they will do with their lives. I am really asking you, on behalf of our parliamentary group, on behalf of all young women, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u158	Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. In my own name. Allow me, and I will take this opportunity to read a letter from one of the women who sent it to us, I don't know, just us, I believe that the other Members and Members, too, are only in the work with which I am actually appealing to you, and at the same time I will explain my voice why I am voting for the amendment we have drafted in the Positive Slovenia Group. "So where we are educated mothers, which we earn more than that, we pay taxes and the highest contributions. This measure, the right measure, as proposed by the Government in the basic text of the law, is disproportionately large and unfair. This is a drastic violation of rights, given the payment of contributions made each month by the Treasury. It is obvious that only those with an average salary will decide for children, because these women will only get 10% less..." and this woman concludes, "Why do mothers working in more responsible jobs receive such a drastic measure?" My predecessor has made it very clear that this amendment is well-intentioned, regardless of all, to protect women who also have higher salaries, who pay more in state or social security, so that they will not be so deprived of this government drastic measure. As has already been said, I will support this amendment because it is good and because, I will say, there is some compromise between the proposal proposed by the Government, it is said that the ceiling should be limited to 1.5 times the minimum wage or guaranteed salary, but we still think that this is an inadequate measure, so we propose at least two times the transitional period or so. that this Decision shall apply 1 year after the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u160	Thank you. We will therefore decide on the amendment under point 2. to 170a. Article 1(2) The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. It was 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will also decide on the amendment under point 3 to 170a. Article 1(2) He's a member of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We'll decide on the amendment to 170b. Article 1(2) The proposer is the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. 81 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We'll decide on the amendment by 170. Article 1(2) The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Meglič Črnak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. From the draft of this document to the current amendments, matters in the field of family policy have deteriorated radically. From short-term measures, we have moved on to medium- or long-term measures, as 2.5% of GDP growth is not expected to take place in this government's mandate, and the question is when will it be? As a result, we ask you to support the amendment, which in fact brings back the date of validity of individual articles in the field of family policy at the time that you originally set it. By doing so, you will demonstrate your well - intentionedness.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u162	Thank you. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. When I asked the Committee a question to the Minister of Finance, given that the measures in the area of family policy have tied this government to growth of 2.5% of GDP, I did not get an answer in short when I asked him when the government was planning to achieve this growth of 2.5% of GDP. Which suggests that the government in the field of family policy really means by these measures, even though they are, I will say agreed, it means very serious systemic reform. Such a measure, such a reform in the field of family policy in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, is not acceptable. That is why we will give our own motion to the amendment of the Social Democrats that this dilemma or inadequate solution, which is enshrined in the law or amendment, should be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u165	The European Commission has today published a review and assessment of the economic policies of the Member States and, among other things, Slovenia, taking into account the government's austerity efforts, notes that the decline in GDP will be greater than envisaged in government documents, so that it is greater than the one on which the budget is based, which we will adopt a little later. That's a very serious question. Even more worrying is, of course, that within the law that we are currently enacting, we anticipate that some restrictions on family benefits will be eased when economic growth in Slovenia reaches 2.5%. What is worrying is that government forecasts, government projections from the stability programme clearly show that in Slovenia, with the measures taken by this government, we cannot promise at least until 2018. At this time, we will therefore agree to radically reduce the income of Slovenian families, the benefits of socially disadvantaged families, and, of course, the real value of this aid will also fall rapidly. Therefore, please accept the proposed amendment as a reasonable compromise limiting the validity of these measures at the end of 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u166	Thank you. We will therefore decide on the amendment to the 170th Article, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 32 to 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 172, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 49, for 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 173, the drafter of the Coalition's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to the 174th article of the drafter of the Coalition's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members, 47, against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the 179th Article amendment, a proposal for a coalition parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 49, for 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to article 181, the drafter of the Coalition's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 184, the proposal of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present for 49, against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 185, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 49, for 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment by 186th Article, the proposal for the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against one or one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 190, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 193, a proposal by the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 194, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 2 [[two]] . [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 195, the proposal of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment by 196th Article, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. 71 Members and Members attended, 49 votes against 1 [[One or one]] . [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 199, the drafter of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 200, the proposal of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment to the 201st Article, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. More than once in recent times, there has been talk of a regulation concluded by the Government prohibiting the conclusion of copyright and advisory contracts. It has been mentioned on several occasions that the Government has also intervened in the autonomous rights to decide on the conclusion of copyright contracts in public institutions in the field of culture, where they have, in accordance with the provisions of the Statute, specific bodies which decide on the conclusion of contracts because the authorities and the Council are responsible for what is concluded and what is signed. We therefore propose that Social Democrats should also conclude contracts for the implementation of work programmes in public institutions in the field of culture. Several prominent cultural workers have pointed out the disastrous consequences if this autonomy of decision-making is dropped, so I expect you, like the Social Democrats, to support others and the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u168	Thank you. We decide on the amendment to the 201st Article, proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 203. The amendment referred to in point 1 shall be proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 80 present. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under point 2. He's a member of the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. 71 present. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 204. Proposaler, members of the coalition. We're voting. 70 present. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 205. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. I'm at 66. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 205.c. Proposaler, members of the coalition. We're voting. 69 attended. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Mr. Franzege, procedurally? We've already voted back. Yeah, yeah. Okay. That is to say, we are going to the amendment for a new chapter and a new 205. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u169	With the next amendment, we will accept a compromise on the part of the Social Democrats on the proposal to introduce an additional income class with a 50% tax on revenues above €60,000 gross. According to the proposal of the coalition, we are moving the border line of this income class up to EUR 69,000 tax base, although we accept this compromise and we will support the amendment, but we would like to point out that, in fact, with a higher limit of EUR 10 000 in this tax class, we will lose EUR 25 million in additional budget revenues. We regret this and, of course, call on the coalition to consider a more permanent form of introduction of an additional income class after the expiry of this measure, which expires in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u170	Thank you. Anyone else? We will vote on the amendment for a new chapter and a new 205.k. We're voting. 75 present. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 205. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u171	Unlike the previous case, we do not intend to support this amendment. With the mandate of this Article, the National Assembly will transfer its sovereignty to the Government and empower the Government to amend the legal matter in the Value Added Tax Act. This amendment refers to the fact that, if the relevant circumstances arise, the Government can, by its own decision, amend and raise the added value tax rate by a maximum of 3 %. Even though the Social Democrats raise higher levels of corporate income tax, we are conditionally supporting – on condition that we believe that it is only reasonable to eliminate permanent sources of instability in our public finances – to bring under this year's roof a pension reform, we feel that this law is constitutionally controversial and we believe that it may lead to difficulties in the feasibility of the article you are proposing with this amendment. Once again, with this amendment, you can give the Government the power to directly amend the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, what is today indisputable legal matter, and transfer this power directly to the Government. Unlike the debate that took place last night on this subject, I personally believe that this is not a comparable situation, such as in determining the excise policy that is within the power of the Government. VAT rates are legal matter and it is unacceptable to transfer this power by this amendment to the full sovereignty of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why we won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u172	Thank you. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Alenka Bratušek, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Even in Positive Slovenia, we will not support this amendment because it does not seem right for the Government to take over the powers of the National Assembly. Taxation determination, including the amount of taxes, has to this day been the responsibility of this National Assembly. The excise policy is something completely different, and also yesterday, and today I read once again the gentleman's magnetogram from the Legislative and Legal Service, it is not clear that this provision, like some others, is not unconstitutional. I think it is right for our people to know clearly and loudly when and for how much VAT, if necessary, will be raised without doing so on the basis of some calculations to be made at the Ministry of Finance. I hope that those who vote for, at least you know what a surplus is, because it will depend on whether or not VAT rises and then the government will simply do it at one of its meetings. According to our assessment, if it is a terba, we do not say that we would raise it because we have no other ideas, but the combination of measures and revenue sides would be right, but it is right to come to the National Assembly, to tell and tell people when and how much it will be done. And we are surprised, with all the negative effects, with food being exasperated, with everything that has been said here, we have even heard that this is an immoral tax, that you have allowed yourself to take the right of the National Assembly once again, and this competence, for the first time in the history of this country, to transfer to the Government. You are instituting very bad parliamentary practice, and I hope that you will then understand that this applies, of course, to all the next ones coming after you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u174	Thank you. There's still some interest in the application. Mr. Chehovin, Mrs. Masha Kociper, I'll just open the application. So if you'd like to explain your voice, please sign in. Mr. Roman Squirrel. Here you are, Mr Žveglič, and we will also take Mrs Maša Kociper into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. It must be said that this VAT is not being introduced today. Yes, of course, some conditions must be prepared for this, I will say, in particular, the consequences. So this is only in 2014 or 2015. But I hope and I will say, but above all, I wish or am sure that if these disastrous consequences come under this law, such as that, of course, then I too will no longer be in the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u176	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope, as you coalition colleagues and colleagues have begun, that you will not find it unnecessary to have a National Assembly in time. Nevertheless, we find that this National Assembly is actually running a government, which is abnormal. That is why I will also vote against this proposal to decide in the Government on such important matters as should be decided here in the National Assembly, and, last but not least, this has been a practice so far. You're actually changing this practice, and I think it's unacceptable, so you don't have mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u178	Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support this amendment on my own either, for the reason that we tolerate, as has already been said, Parliament's power to the Government. This is not the same as in excise policy, when things change on the market very often, let's say oil and so on, it is clear that, despite the fact that no one has ever initiated a constitutional initiative about this, but somewhere we all tolerate this issue together, because things happen from the outside, every few days. And the government is also doing a lot of good because we know that this year it has already raised its excise duty on beer, on alcoholic beverages and on cigarettes, and around oil derivatives we know what the situation is. In my opinion, however, it seems illogical to me what has been said these days about this tax, that this is the only proposal the opposition has in terms of revenue, and on the other hand, we give the Bianca a message to the Government that it is not today, but only in the future, when we do not know what the situation will be, it takes the right to decide on VAT. Therefore, as it is said, I will not support this matter, but the very contradiction of this proposal is that it is an intervention law, not a system law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u180	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u181	Your Honor! I will not repeat everything that has been said by the golden Mr Frangež and colleague Bratušek, and I fully agree with them. Perhaps just one more look at this issue. If I remember anything from law school, it's that we've been taught that only law can interfere with the rights. As an example, the professor then mentioned that taxes can be adopted only by law. That is how I understood our constitutional provision until yesterday. I understand yesterday's thinking of Mr Strlett, who was, among other things, wondering whether this obligation to impose a tax under the law relates to all elements of the tax and whether it is not possible to interpret such a power to the Government when it comes to pre-defined criteria. I have not yet studied the fiscal pact, but in this regard I intend to study it in the future, but with one absurd case, I purposely simplify, explain – this would mean that if we interpreted the law, a new law, I do not know, we would adopt a law on real estate in the National Assembly, we would define it as a tax rate of 2%, 3%, and then the government will raise the rate by a mile, of course, contrary to the legislative body's will next month. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u182	Thank you. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. The individual explanation for the voice is still mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. It has already been said several times, and I would like once again to draw attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was very clearly expressed yesterday, today we can also see Members and Members in writing. The legislative and legal service says that the proposed government solution does not exclude the possibility or question the non-constitutionality. The fact is, dear colleagues and colleagues, that value added tax is legal matter. From the point of view of the principle of the division of power in our country, laws are adopted by the National Assembly. With the proposed amendment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes this exclusive authority to the National Assembly and attribute it to itself. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able, on the basis of a decision it will adopt, through the public, to raise value added tax through the National Assembly. That's what we call absurd. That's what we warned you about. The possibility of non-constitutionality of this provision has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. I will not support such a proposal absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u184	Thank you. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u185	Once again, I won't support it myself. In particular, I would like to tell Mr Žveglic that if he looks at the European Commission's forecasts, which are significantly different from what you have been explaining to us this week, you will have to come to the National Assembly by agreement with the law on raising VAT this year – since this provision gives you the right to come to the National Assembly in years after 2013. The budget for the country sector in 2013 is estimated at 3.8%, according to the European Commission. We have convinced you that it must be below 3% in 2013. You convinced us it would be good if it was already in 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u186	Thank you. We will decide on the amendment to Article 205. The amendment is proposed by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 205. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 206. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 206a. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[For vote 47.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 207. We will decide on the amendment to Article 207. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. (For the vote was 51.)(against 3.) The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 211. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 214. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment to Article 216. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendments to Article 221. Again, two successive amendments, i.e. amendments under points 1 and 2, are substantively identical and are therefore being voted on together. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 223 The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. The amendments under points 1 and 2 are also substantively identical here, which is why the two are voted on together. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 224. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 50. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 50.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 225. The amendments under both points are substantively the same and are therefore being voted on jointly. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 226. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 229. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 230a. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 231. The amendments referred to in points 1 and 2 are essentially the same and are therefore to be voted on jointly. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 233. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] Procedural mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I would only warn you, so I explained in the beginning the voice that we need to be careful where we have joint amendments. This Article 233 is the result of an agreement between the Ministry and the social partners, with Sviz, and was proposed to withdraw from the law because it will be subject to autonomous collective bargaining. We are now confused because this article is such that it speaks about the norms and standards that are the basis for job systemisation and have been applied since 1 September 2012. This is a change and an intervention in the arrangement. To this embarrassment I warn you, you will release her, as you will know and know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u188	Procedural? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it'll be possible to settle with the harmonisation amendment, if anything. But I would warn you to read carefully who the proponents are, because there may be a distinction between what you say and what is written. I think that's what happened in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u190	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 235. The amendments are proposed by the coalition's parliamentary groups. If the amendment referred to in point 1 is adopted, the amendment referred to in point 2 shall be immaterial. Procedural, Mr. Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u191	I merely procedurally note that it is very sad that the proposal is what decides what is meaningful and what is not. Mr. Tanko admitted it a little earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u192	Article 235, amendment under point 1, shall be proposed by the coalition's parliamentary group. If the amendment is accepted, the amendment referred to in point 2 shall be immaterial. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 49, for 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment referred to in point 2 has become irrelevant. Amendment to Article 237. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 50, for 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 238. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members, 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment for new Article 246.a. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 247. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to Annex 1 shall also be adopted. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 48, for 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 247a. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 49, for 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 251 The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] Amendment accepted Amendment to Article 255. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 257. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 258. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments to the new 260a Article. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. I find that, in the second reading, the National Assembly has adopted amendments to the following Article of the Law: 1, 16, 19, 55, 57, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 71, 84, 87, 88, 89, 104, 135, 165, 169, 170, 172, 173, 174, 179, 181, 184, 185, 186, 190, 193, 194, 195, 195, 196, 199, 200, 203, 204, 204, 205, 205, 205.c, amendment for a new Chapter and 205.c. for a new Chapter, 205.i, 206, 206, 207, 207, 207, 222, 223, 226, 229, 230.a, 235, 237, 238a, 247, 257, 251, 251, 251, 255, 255, 255, 258. I ask qualified candidates or they intend to table amendments. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'm predicting we're going to table additional amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u194	How long do you need to do this?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u195	We need half an hour to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u196	I interrupt this agenda item and we will continue at 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u197	Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance. You have received two amendments, an amendment to Article 205 and an amendment to Article 357, both amendments have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. I shall put to the debate Article 205 and the amendment to Article 205. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to the decision of the coalition's parliamentary groups by Article 205. Please check for voting devices. We vote on the amendment to Article 205. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 257 and the amendment to Article 257. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, we will move on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to 257. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendments. The Government would like a word on the harmonisation of the text. Please, Madam Secretary of State Mojca Škrynjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u198	Thank you. I would like to make a harmonisation amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance, Article 233: Article is deleted. Explanation. As a result of the deletion of Article 231 which provides for the consequences resulting from Article 233 proposed, there is a discrepancy between the existing Article 233 and the content of Article 231 deleted, and that Article should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u199	Thank you. The government pointed out that the text was not in line. I therefore propose that the Government prepare a harmonisation amendment. This amendment is ready, now it's multiplying. The amendment to Article 233 is very simple and reads: "Article is deleted." I'm asking my colleagues if they want us to wait for it to reproduce. No, no, no. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u200	Mr President, this is a principle, it is a rule of procedure. It is a matter of respect for what the National Assembly has accepted. It's just a form. It can also be content. We have been talking about content all the time, and there was no real dilemma as to whether we had a right or no right. So this is about the form. And this form means that it is right to respect it, that at this time we can say something else, that we can see and that we can look. It can't be that easy to change 45 laws and coordinate within all of this. That is why I think it is necessary to respect the procedure, ladies and gentlemen. In the future, when we talk about other laws, about amendments to other laws, we will be able to transfer everything to someone who will decide on behalf of this high assembly. That's why I'm saying this may be pure form, but I think the form has to be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u201	If I understand correctly, Mr Meh, you want us to wait so long to get an amendment to the bench. Yeah, no problem. I looked around the hall, saw if anyone objected to making immediate decisions. I didn't think so, but because of you, Mr. Meh, we're going to wait so long for you to get all the amendments on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u202	I'm sorry, not for me. It's not about me. Look, it's not about whether any of us, honourable Members and Members, want to respect the Rules of Procedure. It's about respecting the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u203	Okay, I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 4:35 p.m. when you have the text of the amendment on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u204	We're continuing our adjourned session. Are the business conditions for continuation met? Do you all have materials on the table? Yes, you do. Does anyone else want to discuss the Government's harmonisation amendment? If not, then I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 233. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today and yesterday there were very big words about this law, as if it were a historic day with the budget rebalancing and so on. I certainly think today is an important day. For the first time, it is an important day because these laws and regulations are being implemented or adopted with the consent of most trade unions, which means that both trade unions and the Government and employers have actually done some kind of national action, in the sense that we are all aware of the situation in which the country is and that there is a need for agreement on the most important matters. This law will certainly hurt certain people. In any case, some people will receive less income, such or other benefits from work or from the nature of social welfare. In any case, I strongly hope that these measures will take time to actually consolidate public finances, to balance public finances and to follow these measures to ensure greater competitiveness, to follow measures that will create greater legal certainty in the country, as well as measures that will in fact lead to further economic growth and thus increase people's income. It is important to know that the aim of this legislation is not to actually reduce the remuneration, the aim is to give the country a better rating in international markets, to make it cheaper to operate in businesses and in themselves, so that smaller interest is paid. It should also be borne in mind that this legislation is also important from a moral point of view, because it achieves that future generations will not pay as high interest as they would if this legislation were not adopted. And, of course, it is not fair, it is not fair that the present generation places burdens on future generations. I will therefore vote in favour of this law and the Slovenian Democratic Party will also vote in favour of this law and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u206	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that with this law on the balance of public finances, which affects more than 40 laws, much coordination was needed in a very short time and much needed to be done to minimally affect those with the lowest income and to find sufficient reserves in all areas in this short time. The fact is that previous interventions into the lives of citizens and citizens were somehow in three or four points. A few averages were taken from the municipalities, the pensions were not coordinated, the salaries were frozen. Everything else that we now regulate through these 40 laws does not have too much impact on those who have the lowest income, but it was covered by the leased loans. And that's what this country just can't do anymore. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law on financial balance. It also supported this because it is the beginning of other legislation and a way out of the economic crisis. This Public Finance Balance Act does not leave the crisis, but it is a prerequisite for us to open the door to entrepreneurs, economists, to start by amending systemic legislation also in the labour market and thus start to raise employment opportunities. Yesterday I heard one information that about 30,000 young people with higher and higher education are in the employment institution. What potential, how much society has put in them and now they cannot see themselves, they have no opportunity to show up and return it. Here we had to start and in the Slovenian People's Party we will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u208	On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. We're running out of money, we're running out of heart money, and I don't think so yet. And what is not in money comes out of commitment, belonging, and conscience. And I am sure that this is not something that our citizens lack, and that the people will understand this, who may also be taking what we are taking from this law on the balance of public finances. However, if there were more of this in politics, we might be able to dig out more quickly from the crisis. That is why the Civil Code and I will personally support the Public Finance Balance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u210	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež, please. The wrong path of public financial consolidation of the ruling policy exposes to the middle class, public education, public care for the youngest, public health care, care for the start of a new investment cycle by encouraging public investment and by continuing to ignore the key problems of Slovenian society, which is in particular the high indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, which is one of the highest in Europe. This is not the prospect of recovery, which is also largely confirmed by the European Commission's assessments today. By the way, the European Commission predicts that we are at risk of further walking in domestic consumption, which will of course be directly reflected in the decline in economic growth, and this also means that in the medium and long term it is impossible to imagine a more serious recovery of the Slovenian economy. So much more because this law also removes investments as a prerequisite for us to launch a new development momentum, an economic cycle and because by reducing the support for science and development and restructuring the economy, we are actually reducing the possibility of modernising the Slovenian economy and providing it with access to new markets and the possibility of producing products and services of higher value added. This is an anti-development policy that promises the lost decade and the Social Democrats will not cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u211	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia shall have the word mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've told you before that we've been trying for two months to tell you that your path is wrong, and it's for the good of this country. Only saving will deepen our crisis, and today you can read it in the European Union report. Unfortunately, we were right again. On the subject of debt, it has been heard repeatedly that we will no longer be in debt. The debt, which was 47 per cent and a few per cent of GDP at the end of 2011, will rise to 58 per cent of gross domestic product as announced by the same Commission in 2013. This is 22% more than the end of 2011, and it is said that the debt will be no more and the next generation will not suffer. And in the end, there's just one more thing. Nor will we support the law because these measures are not consistent with the social partners. One part of the public sector unions was signed by a strike agreement. Do not say that the measures are coordinated, as they were when voting on the intervention measures. At that time, the measures were in line with the unions. And this is an essential, essential difference and also one of the reasons – in addition to the fact that the path is somehow wrong – that the Positive Slovenia cannot support this law in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u213	Thank you. Does anyone want to explain their voice individually? I'm opening the application. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u214	Thank you. As we can see from the opinion of our parliamentary group, I will not support this law myself, as I announced in yesterday's debate. Let me explain. The law is legally non-consistent, in certain provisions constitutionally disputed, transfers the original powers from the legislative to the executive, introduces the unacceptable retrograde of measures and does not have a time limit and breaks the existing social relations, eliminates no structural problems in this society, does not have measures to start the economy, and in general, I must say that the implementation of this law will harm the financial consolidation of the State more than it does. That's why I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u215	Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! Even though there has been agreement with most unions, I will not support this law because it is the most unusual law that we adopt in the National Assembly in my 16-year-old parliamentary service. In particular, I will not support it because Article 169 of this Act is discriminatory and I hope that it will fall in the Constitutional Court because it reduces the lowest partisan fighting pensions. For example, those with a pension of €722 today will have a pension of €622 under this law, which is said to be a reduction of 13.85% by the partisan partisan pension, which is an abnormal reduction. The fighters would also like to help us to get out of this crisis. This will not be a temporary measure either. For many of the fighters, this will be a permanent measure. These are people over 80 and 90 years old, and it's improper and unhygienic for this coalition to propose. In addition, this law also reduces the standard of war veterans for Slovenia in 1991. There's only two reasons why I don't support this reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u218	First, ladies and gentlemen, we did not get any answers to some questions. When we talked about content, about changing all 44 or 47 laws, then it's not really a small change, but it's a structural change. In this way, extremely large structural changes are being made in all the fields and areas of our lives. Of course I think it's good that some agreement with the unions has been made. That's a good road. This also shows continued support or at least my support is absolutely full and great. But there is much work to be done from here on out or waiting for you because we have not been able to cooperate. What the amended laws will bring to individual participants or to individual users of the budget, in fact, we do not know yet. That's what's gonna show up. It will also show whether the amendments to these laws are consistent with the Constitution or not. And if they're not, I really want to know what's gonna happen. This is why the questions that Members and Members have already discussed here today are extremely important. In what way will the state encourage state investment? What about cohesion funds? In what way will we provide the municipalities with the means to make investments, as well as other budgetary users? In what way will we assure the congregations that they too will be able to work normally? So there's a bunch of things that we don't know what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen. And these consequences can be severe. I can't support a marriage like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u219	Mr. Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. In these discussions, I remembered one text that I learned 50 years ago. I had to learn it from him. Let me tell him. "Open up!" There's a call coming in from heaven and someone knocks three times. With the key behind the belt and the happy faces, St. Peter stands at the door. "Yeah, who are you God's soul? Why do you want to go to a paradise home?" "Slovakia humble, heavenly locksmith." "Oh, I like to believe that, but you don't like it. Therefore every man would rather leave the earth, and move up to us as soon as possible." That is why, with the support of this law, I would like to leave something else and not overly indebted to our craftsmen, our young ones, our descendants. Let's give them a chance to live well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u221	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Maybe if I have time, I'll tell you a song. Despite my support today for all the amendments, those who have improved this law will not receive my support, however, because I do not approve of the way the government has undertaken these changes. The law has grave implications for many areas, in sectoral laws, without the participation of the profession and the public concerned. With this law, some sort of mini-reform works in specific areas, and we know that reforms are being carried out gradually, prudently, thoughtfully and through the inclusion of a possible profession and of course also to the public. At that time, we did not protest only the Members of Positive Slovenia. We have seen and heard that this is a way of protesting young and elderly people on the street who do not agree with this way of interfering with their rights and their lives. Since you were not prepared to adapt and listen to many good proposals, I cannot support this law. And you might say, "Who can make the night dark clear who is stirring the spirit? Who shall cast away in the loaves, that beateth the heart from dawn to night, from darkness to day! Who learns to erase 'from the memory of the former days, emptiness run away, that building kills! How you want to be a poet, and it's too hard for you to wear an al-hell sky in your chest! Remember your tent, and suffer without peace."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u223	Thank you. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u224	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members, distinguished ministers and others present! I must say, I will not support this law myself. I respect the efforts made by the negotiating group of the government in at least the last few days seem to have made a sincere effort to correct the worst mistakes, and some have been corrected. That is why I also welcome the agreement with some, not all, social partners. Talk and deal is the way to go. You have clearly shown that you have no interest in the opinion of the opposition, since you have taken nothing into account. Of course, you take full responsibility for your shoulders, and that is why you rule as well as we know. But you're lucky, I have to say that I have no intention of obstructing you in such a way as to smooch people, to carry out a referendum or to sign them themselves, because the country is in too difficult a state to afford. In the interests of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, I want you to acknowledge the errors you will soon discover and correct as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u225	Thanks, mag. Thirsty. No poet's wand? [[Laugh]] The word has magic. Majda Purity to explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the bill, for which there are some reasons. The coalition has a large majority in the National Assembly to adopt the law. According to statements by coalition Members and Members, there is also a belief that this is the only and only way out of the crisis, and I have tried to convince them repeatedly that I think otherwise. This comment was not taken into account. But I think the unions told them what they did. I have in my hands the decision of the Presidency of the Union of Free Trade Unions, which speaks only of not being encouraged, not making a request for a referendum, but clearly states here that the proposed measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, based solely on savings, are not the right way and that measures must be taken and so on. This is said to be the only thing the unions agree with and have signed is that they will not promote the referendum. Anything else is a question of taking responsibility for Members and Members of the Coalition, or they can press the "for" button for a law that can be found to not strengthen legal certainty in that country, that measures that interfere with acquired rights are also measures that have nothing in common with austerity measures. More. For example, the introduction of a compulsory foreign language into the first grade of primary school is even a cost, not a savings, and could cite a few other such cases. It is simply that the opportunity has opened the door for acceptance of something called relief from those who are not accepted by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u227	Mr. Roman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. First of all, I'd like to say that this marriage is really extensive and takes something from a lot of people. It is true that no target group is taking everything we witnessed at the end of last year, when state pensions were abolished and a large number of rural women lost money, this sum was less than 200 euros, and they took everything from them. At that time, I did not hear the protests of those who protest very cheerfully today. And that saddens me. However, I am pleased with all of these developments, this is the statement by Mr Jožet Kolarič, the undisputed authority of Slovenian managers, who are having difficulty seeing anything, I come from the environment where there are also many people working there, which says that the environment in Slovenia has not been as favourable to investment as it is with the amended legislation for a long time. And this also gives me the hope that this carriage of the Slovenian economy will turn upside down, that these black predictions that I am listening to, what will happen, and that the citizens who now take something from this law will get these rights back. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Jože the Great, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! In recent days, we have heard on several occasions that the Act on the Balance of Public Finances is a material that is extensive, which has come to the committees and the meeting of the National Assembly, which interferes with legislation with several thousand pages of text. Due to the record number of amendments and parallel negotiations with trade unions, the transparency of the law has increased all the time. I would like to join some of my colleagues' opinions that the review of the whole content of the law and the understanding of it, and in particular its effects today, are virtually impossible. I can say that due primarily to the disagreement between Members and Members of the opposition's positions, the content of the law and its implications for the coalition Members of the opposition are of secondary importance. Clearly, in this case it is only important that the law is adopted immediately. I do not agree with this, so I will vote against this law. The consequences of certain articles of this Law will be irreparable.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u231	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dearly respected colleagues and colleagues! Successful consolidation of public finances is successful when citizens and citizens who each day feel the most in their daily lives. The law represents the composition of several hundred amendments, which is very interesting that some claim that the law was well prepared. The strike agreement signed by the government with the unions, and not all of them, does not mean that the proposed law on the balance of public finances, which interferes with 45 sectoral laws and regulates the acquired rights of citizens and citizens, is an optimal solution that could be reached with a little more attention to all social partners. In addition, I am deterred from supporting the law by the fact that the law also interferes with constitutional rights, which the National Assembly should especially respect and protect. I hope that despite government measures we will successfully survive the difficult period of the crisis, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u233	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! I don't have the heart to support such a marriage. It's about unconstitutionality. Article 2 of the Constitution makes clear what the rule of law and the social state means. In the package of laws, it is from the norms of the square cleaning of the female worker in school or kindergarten to the attempt to introduce the mini pension reform, which we opposed and also achieved that the government went a step back. Unfortunately, it is not possible to sense and detect measures to eliminate credit crunches, not to mention that there is no respect for increased fertility and birthrates in Slovenia, no respect for the values of liberation and independence, no support for investment and no greater emphasis on measures to boost economic growth. What is even more interesting is the fact that it is in some way a silent introduction of the possibility of an increase in VAT, but the government of the National Assembly will no longer need this issue after the law has been confirmed. So much did Positive Slovenia hear during the election campaign because it was the only one who hoped to predict that VAT should be increased. Indeed, we said only one percentage point at that time, now we are talking about two percentage points. I see you're obviously following our steps, monitoring what's good and finding that Positive Slovenia means well. That's why we can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u235	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I think we need to take action or act. We must accept it according to the requirements or needs of our finances. He may not be the most righteous of all, but I think that nothing is concrete, and that by agreeing on certain things, they will be able to fix, change, improve or make amends where these measures are most painfully cut. I don't think we know exactly how much these changes are going to cost us right now, and that we need to be a little patient and wait to see the financial results of all that we still haven't been able to figure out. No one has ever been able to say about it, not the position or the opposition, how much it all costs. At the same time, I'd like to say something else. We will have little to do with the development and investment, investment and at the same time I think that when we adopt the rebalancing and this law we will have to entrust our government to prepare another programme as soon as possible, and this is a programme of revenue acquisition and increased economic engagement, as it will be necessary to ensure that all those companies that are still owned by the country will have the right leadership and will have to take certain measures to control those companies that have come into private hands in the course of the 20 years. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u237	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, one explanation must be given. During the electoral campaign, Positive Slovenia was to raise VAT, but without these drastic austerity measures. It was an alternative. Despite your opposition to our proposal at that time, you came today with drastic austerity measures, and you even wrote in this same law that the government is taking exclusive authority to change the VAT rate by itself in the course of the national assembly. The government will raise VAT, at the same time the government will punish the middle layer, the intellectual core of our country, and punish the families. By the way, some MEPs today have been saying that they would not want to over-indebt our craftsmen. Have these government Members come to a calculation of the impact of the various measures on the same families? These measures in this law will affect single mothers, affect families due to lower child allowances, changes in the payment of kindergartens, changed scholarship policies, respected colleagues and colleagues. And also because, if you want, a changed system that is being introduced in the field of health. Such measures, taken in such a way, are absolutely not pride in a democratic legal and social state, so I will strongly oppose this law and therefore my vote will go against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Let me say that I will not support the law myself, but I am glad that, during this period, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the unions have taken advantage of this period at least to understand that the referendums are not a solution, but they cause more problems than the opportunities for consolidating the economy and for the development of the country. This is indeed an important act that has obviously been agreed upon and learned during this period. If this were domestic thinking in the last three years, we today would have significantly fewer needs for such drastic intervention in public consumption. And I say, not just me, but also many people who know that such a drastic reduction in public consumption in just one year is also a suffocation of the economy. And if we stifle the economy, then it is not to be expected that we have done what needs to be done to begin to cope with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Last but not least, even in the previous term, if there were no referendum on the pension law, peasants would still be in force — and the previous National Assembly has enacted them — and today, too, there would be no problem with this area. However, since this law has not been enforced, there are more problems in this area than they would have been. Because this marriage is really going to deepen and cause a lot of problems to many people, as I said, I will not support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u241	Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u242	That's right. I can't support this marriage because it's your marriage. You're in charge of the government and you're responsible for these laws that we're about to pass. That's right. And I am happy today to hear for the first time that foreign investors are waiting because this law is now passed. They're standing on the border. There's an American standing for Primorje, apparently, who's going to be knocking at our door. And this marriage doesn't contribute to new investments, you've reached out to that population that you shouldn't: the sick, the children, the elderly, and so on. So, do you know what your anthem will be? Not some Shakespeare or a hard song, but that Tonček came in, carrying a purse, asking for poor food. I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u243	Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Of course, I cannot support this law for one very reason, because I do not think that, like all my colleagues and colleagues, we know what we are accepting today. We don't really know. We know that this is a law on the balance of public finances, but we do not know what the result is or what the content is. I barely follow the health field, but I can't control it during these two days. There are far greater consequences than austerity measures. I think that if everyone knew what this law could bring, everyone would vote against, except perhaps New Slovenia, because the role of the religious community is likely to be strengthened because people will need a lot of comfort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u245	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. She voted 49 against 31. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. We must now conclude the legislative procedures for the two bills which were dealt with at the same time with the Public Finance Balance Act under Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, by the system of the so-called hybrid. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Police Act, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Petrov Wilfan, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 32. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by a group of Members with first-signed Janko Webro is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Frangež on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u246	I would like to draw attention to the fact that some of the rights of Members and Members have been violated in this process. A group of signatories to this Act proposed to the National Assembly a general discussion, which is its business right. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, a general discussion should be held on the basis of this requirement. Since the coalition has decided to create a hybrid, it has ultimately led to satisfactory results, it is nevertheless possible to conclude that we have been deprived of part of this process throughout the debate. It is not possible to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by simply uniting the laws which are governed and incorporated into this National Assembly by various procedures into one law at the will of the majority in this National Assembly. Since we are still assessing that our law is suitable for consideration, we will, of course, symbolically vote against such a decision also from a sign of protest against the great imagination that has fostered the integration of three laws into a hybrid.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u247	Thank you. I would only point out that, in both cases, the Rules of Procedure, Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, where two laws governing the same social relationship are introduced in the procedure, may be dealt with at the same meeting under the same item of the agenda on both laws under the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law. In both cases, this condition has been fulfilled. We have also done so in accordance with past parliamentary practice, and this is also the case in the case of the police law, where we have had a dilemma, because, while it is the same law in both cases, but not to address the same issue, we have done so in accordance with previous parliamentary practice. If a different arrangement is ever made, we will do otherwise. In this case, the same person may resubmit the law and refer it to the police. I'm putting a decision to the vote. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. More explanation for the voice? Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is precisely because of such and different parliamentary practice as is now being introduced and introduced in the past — yes, the explanation of my vote — that one gentleman said to me: "Mr Gaspar, more valuable are the garbage they take away from Parliament than you are worthy of Members and Members of Parliament." I very much ask you, Mr President, to stop this parliamentary practice, which literally undermines the reputation of this temple of democracy. Therefore, a voice against such inappropriate, unusual procedures that actually have a profound impact on the bad reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u249	Thank you. Once again, I explain that the so-called hybrid system is applied under Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure and that in the case of both laws, the law on income and the law on police, we have acted in full compliance with the previous parliamentary practice. We always stick to following past parliamentary practice, unless the agreement reached by the leaders of the parliamentary groups is different. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 31. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the annual plan for the management of the real estate of the country for 2012. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 5 of the agenda, under which is the proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Follow-up is under b, this is the Proposal for a Decree on the real estate management plan of the Constitutional Court for 2012. Even here, amendments could not be tabled. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Follow-up is under c, this is the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 It was not possible to table amendments here either. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the Draft Balance of Budgets. Explanation of voice. First, on behalf of the Group of Members. Please sign up. Mr Franz Pukšič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Why are we today accepting the rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia, in the middle of May, for this year 2012? For a simple reason, because the former authorities have led the wrong debt policy, not economic growth. We all know that the budget we have is simply not real. Many of you have said that we want to save 800 million euros with this balance. That's not true. With this balance, we will be less indebted to €800 million. We're not saving anything. But we'll still be in debt for one billion. But the debt of this billion is because you've spent so much in the last three years that we're going to put 700 million out of this billion. That's why we're taking this rebalancing. While the opposition has talked a lot about the changes in the balance, it has offered nothing but a rise in taxes, the burden of the economy and the citizens. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this balance because we cannot and would not agree with the additional taxes. The balance sheet also needs to be supported in order to finally be able to create a competitive business environment while at the same time having sound public finances. But I'm afraid not today, but in a few years. It's just gonna be hard. Finally, I am sure that if there were any other path that you proposed in the opposition to SD and Positive Slovenia, then surely last year we would not have early elections. In this country, however, I believe that such economies, unions, coalitions and the public sector are positive for the adoption of this balance. Unfortunately, not the list of Zoran Jankovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u251	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. In the 2012 Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the rebalancing because it is a rebalancing which will mean a lost decade for the recovery of the Slovenian economy. Such a drastic reduction in public spending, by €800 million in one year, means that we will reduce gross national product by 1.6% and that will also reduce economic growth by 0.8% of gross social product. As a result, unemployment, which will increase by 0.48% or 4 000 800 people, will remain unemployed due to the adoption of the 2012 balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u253	Please, if you'll be so kind.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u254	So 4 000 800 people will lose their jobs because the economy will simply not be able to achieve that growth as if this intervention in public consumption was not as drastic as it was recorded in the 2012 balance sheet. And that it is indeed a lost decade for the economy, the fact that resources for investing in development are being drastically reduced shows. Social Democrats cannot agree with this way of resolving the crisis in Slovenia. Our position has always been that economic growth must be encouraged, and we have also done so, and that public spending must also be reduced and additional resources provided. All these measures have also been prepared in the previous mandate. One of the important interventions was certainly pension reform. If this were adopted, of course, at least EUR 300,000 would have more available in the State budget than was available when this reform was not adopted. And even in 2012, our proposal would be to freeze both public sector salaries and pensions. Our proposal would be to tax wealth and wealth substantially more, and it would certainly be possible to get money to subsidise development into the economy, because by reducing revenue in this budget due to a reduction in corporate income tax to invest in development, you have only helped some businesses, but this reduction will be €266 million. What about those companies that cannot handle their own debt? This one's gonna go down. That's why this balance is wrong and we won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u255	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We will certainly support this budget balance in the Slovenian Democratic Party. For the first time, because the current budget cannot actually be implemented. He was placed on unrealistic grounds because of this simply not feasible. The other thing that is extremely important and particularly substantive is that this budget balance is based on more realistic foundations. Based on the fact that it is not possible to consume something that is not created, only what we create in the country can be used. This is similar to the transaction account of an individual or family who knows that he can spend as much as he deserves. If spending is greater, then debt, excessive debt, when you settle debts, usually means a decline, a breakdown of an individual, a breakdown of a family, or a collapse of a country, but not in the same way. It is therefore important that we start building development in the country on a real basis, on what we are actually achieving. Slovenians and Slovenes are smart enough, we're working hard to make this work. I also think that this budget does not bring big winners and not big losers. In fact, it does not mean any financial revolution in the fiscal field, if you want, merely changes or evolutions in the reduction of expenditure, i.e. expenditure in the direction that expenditure will be more realistic and based on what is actually created. This is not just a financial document, it is also a document based on substantively different bases and these bases will provide us with further development in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u257	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia shall have the word mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps now it would be a matter of whether this balance is aligned with the legislation that is in force and which will be in force after the implementation of the balanced law. I think as a lawyer you're going to have a very difficult task of answering me because you should say no and then you know what's coming next. This rebalancing is really a win-win, I'd say my colleague over there on the left. Something like this has never been accepted in the National Assembly. You will accept a balance that has a two-hundred-million-dollar hole on the expenditure side. A two-million-dollar hole! And you will confirm this today on a better and more realistic basis, I can agree, and this balance creates significantly worse conditions to move forward. I am confident that we will have another balance ahead of us this year, and before that, we will have an absolute halt to the implementation of the budget. It's only a matter of time. You accept a great deal of responsibility with this, once again, I stress that you are introducing parliamentary practice, which, given that this is the most important thing now, will continue to be the case. I'd really like you to stop explaining that the debt is over. 58.1% of GDP will be indebted to Slovenia at the end of 2013. Indeed, this is only a little short of 60% and the interest will obviously be even higher and will be even more consumed. Absolutely such a balance with a two-hundred-million-dollar hole, so unrealistic, we can't support it. If you have already decided to adopt a law on the balance of public finances today, take this balance out of the procedure, make a new one within 14 days that will have a basis in all laws, it does not, and then deal with this balance that might be less bad than this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u259	Thank you. Before you decide whether you will individually explain your vote, let me warn you that we will now only vote on the general part of the draft budget, then we will have a special part to say, all the amendments, and finally the vote on the whole budget, so that you can allocate an explanation so that you will finally be in that final vote. Is that okay? I propose that we move on to a decision on the general part of the budget's proposal for a rebalancing. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for the 2012 budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. We will decide on the amendments tabled. The decision on the amendments tabled will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 10. 5. 2012. You have also received an amendment to the 2012 draft budget rebalancing, as well as 10. 5. 2012. We will vote on amendments by budget user and within this by sub-programme. First amendment. User General Secretariat of the Government, sub-programme – Activities of political institutions. The amendment is proposed by all members of the coalition. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, subprogramme - Support for the restructuring of non-financial companies. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, sub-programme – Promoting foreign investment and the openness of the economy. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, subprogramme – Support for technological development projects. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 29 to 49 votes in favour. [[For the vote 29]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, sub-programme — Support for the restructuring of non-financial corporations. The proponents are mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Mr Jože Velikinja. Procedural first, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The reminder we have says that this amendment has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u261	According to my information, he has been filed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Jože the Great, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. The 2012 budget rebalancing foresees a 50 % reduction in the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. This prevents the implementation of the programme of closure and achievement of the objectives set. Despite the guidance that only the most urgent work should be done this year, we can claim that such a decision distances us from the target year until the final closure of the mine. The issue of staff restructuring is also raised, as at the end of this year's production, there will be an additional social disaster in the environment, which is already statistically above average negative indicators, in addition to increasing risks and potential environmental risks due to abandoned mining. In Positive Slovenia we have therefore prepared an amendment to the balance that would ease the situation and allow the mine to continue closing without damaging consequences. We are proposing a reduction of the budget line by 33% instead of 50%. I therefore appeal to all Members to accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u263	Thank you. Let me just say that this amendment has been amended to comply with the Rules of Procedure 9. 5. 2012. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I would only add to the previous explanation what I think is important once again. The fact is that despite the previous reduction in the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, financial resources are further reduced, including on the basis of the resolution of the economic and social situation within the restructuring if you want. This, I believe, is that you are aware that in a region or in a place that already has 16% unemployment, a new economic and social bomb can mean. I hope and believe that the government that owns RTH cannot and cannot afford this. In addition, I would like to draw attention to another point: the closure programme of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine was also approved in Brussels. I do not know what Europe will say to this government. Once again, I ask you to give your support to this amendment, which repays the financial resources for that urgent part, is restructuring in the area of social or human resources problems, and what is equally important and necessary, recovery from the mining of damaged areas. As a matter of fact, I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u265	We will vote on the amendment. User Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, sub-programme — Support for the restructuring of non-financial corporations. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, sub-programme – Business environment for entrepreneurship and competitiveness. The rapporteur is the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The following amendments, the user of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the sub-programme — Measures to stabilise the market. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 5. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The next amendment. User Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Subprogramme – Food and Veterinary Safety. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Subprogramme – Transport and Transport Infrastructure. The rapporteur is the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Sub-programme – Benefits and Rights of Unemployed Persons. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. The amendment was tabled at 7. 5. 2012 and 10. 5. The amendment was tabled in 2012. Explanation of the vote, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u266	I just want to remind the coalition that this is the amendment you tried to make a mini-retirement reform. Given that you are proposing not to be misled, this amendment must be corrected and voted against. This is well-intentioned, in the interest of consistency.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u267	Once again, we will vote on the amendment to a specific part of the budget. User Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Sub-programme – Benefits and Rights of Unemployed Persons. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 13 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme – Social assistance, protection allowances and other transfers for social security. The rapporteur is the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme – Social Security Services. The rapporteur is the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 to 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme – Family benefits and parental benefits. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Amendment tabled seven. 5., amended 10. 5. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 51, for 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme – Family benefits and parental benefits. The rapporteur is the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 to 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme – Child and Family Protection. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 31, for 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme – Hospital Refunds and other transfers to the sick. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 30, for 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Higher Education. The rapporteurs are the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and the Group of Social Democrats. Explanation of voice. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, then Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It would be wise to support this amendment, because when we reduce resources to higher education, we are threatening the implementation of study programmes. This reduces the conditions for education so that students can be educated and educated in a quality manner and that they are not enrolled in school curricula. As you know, the university has also awarded a fifth year and lacks at least EUR 20 million for this part of the study. If this amendment is not accepted, this programme is questionable, further studies are questionable and the funding of these further programmes is also questionable. Not to mention the quality of the studies, not to mention that universities and universities no longer have reserves, because according to information received by the university’s Rector, the resources they now receive barely cover personal income. It can happen that we will receive the outflow of university professors, that the best students will be leaving, and then I don't know how we can talk about further development and about our experts who are supposed to run the economy. I therefore propose that you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u269	Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. Two amendments have been tabled to this programme and sub-programme. One's talking about 32 million, the other's talking about 8 million. Taking into account the letter to all leaders of the parliamentary groups signed by the four Rectors of Slovenian Universities, this reminds you that, for 2012, universities have been deprived of €50 million, 20 to carry out the continuation of the Bologna Study and the missing 31, which have been permanently lacking since the funding of the Higher Education Financing Regulation and have been alerted for years by the regulation that they do not receive sufficient funds. This means that it is 50 million less resources, and as high-quality as the implementation or completion of the study year in this part of 2012 would solve the problem with the 32 million proposed in the amendment. We cannot understand what will be solved with the proposed 8 million proposed by the coalition amendment. There is much to be heard from the fact that there are reserves within the university, but the fact is that higher education did not receive adequate material support for making investments and for the necessary modernisation required by the equipment of universities for conducting a quality study. In particular, I stress whether we intend to fulfil what we have set ourselves with the National Higher Education Programme, where we promise free studies, where we also set targets for how much part of the population should be included in tertiary education. It is also, of course, a commitment that we should fulfil to future students who have enrolled in programmes for which there will be no means to start in the study 2012-2013. It is therefore a very responsible decision and I propose that you support this first amendment, which nevertheless provides a more appropriate amount for higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u271	Thank you. We will decide on the amendment under point one with the user of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, sub-programme – Higher education. The rapporteurs are the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Social Democrats. The same amendment was also tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia as the only amendment candidate. We move to a vote on this amendment. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will now decide on amendment number two with the same user, the same sub-programme, namely the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport sub-programme – Higher Education. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 6. [[The vote was 51.]] [[against 6.]] The amendment was accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Research programmes and projects. The amendment under point one, the candidates are the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It was 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[against 48.]] The amendment has not been accepted. And now the amendment under point two. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Research programmes and projects. Here are the candidates for the coalition's parliamentary group. The amendment was tabled at 7. 5. and amended 10. 5. 2012. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Human Resources in Support of Higher Education and Technological Development Science. The rapporteurs are the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Social Democrats. This is an amendment under order number one. Mag. Majda Potrat, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u272	Thank you. There are also two amendments to this sub-programme. As it has been shown so far, the second has more scope for adoption, although the amount envisaged is significantly lower. We demand more competitive health care, but a more competitive economy without research and development, without investing in those who can do the most, this objective or this desire will not be realized. The development strategy needs to be looked at. Since there was much to be heard in these days about researchers, with the quality of Slovenian science, with the poverty of Slovenian science, with the unemployment of both higher education teachers and researchers, I would like to read this comparative information from the analysis of education, research and the development of innovation in entrepreneurship and industry in Slovenia. On the quality of research in higher education and on the achievements of research institutions can be read that the publications, which were the criteria of research, are 306th place University of Ljubljana, 8th in Europe, 746th place Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, 970th and 41st in Europe University of Maribor. Scientific research centre SAZU, for which some claim even a certificate of existence, 128th place and 54th place, but this is for research excellence. Slovenian researchers are therefore good, let us invest in human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u273	We're voting on the amendment. Joseph Kavtičnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're always proud when our researchers get a confession. And there aren't many. Not only in Europe, but in the world, they are recognized, sought and needed. This is a hatchery for young researchers, for scientists who then need the economy. Earlier, Mr Horvato and I had talked and said he agreed that more needed to be done by the economy in order to make these scientists more recognizable. But first we have to have scientists and researchers, and then the economy and all those entities that need intelligence for development will call them. I fear that our young talented researchers, scientists will call and recall other entities, other economic societies, and that we will be able to receive what we will produce with our own hands. That's what I'm afraid of. So, we need to use our brains, our knowledge, and that's why we need to invest something. There is never enough resources, but these are the minimum resources that these institutions need, so I suggest we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u275	We will decide on the amendment under order number one. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Human resources in support of science, higher education and technological development. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 2 for the same user, the same subprogram. The members of the coalition shall be members of the parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Research Infrastructure. Under order number 1, the amendment is the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Social Democrats. Mag. Majda Potrat, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. For a while now, I have been trying to prove that cutting into higher education and science with 110 million funding shortfalls can be fatal for the development of Slovenian higher education and research. The cut will have consequences for the study path of many in this country. But behind this cut lies the dismantling of Slovenian public higher education. And that's what you need to be alert to and what you need to have in front of your eyes. What is happening with this rebalancing and with this law on the balance of public finances is an accounting with the Slovenian intellectual future. I'm sorry that you did this, but you have a majority, and with that, you have a responsibility for those moves you're making. To develop your higher education network on a private basis, it is perfectly clear whether you say it now or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u277	We're voting on the amendment. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment by order number 2. User Ministry of Education, Science, Education and Culture, Subprogramme – Research infrastructure equipment. The proposers shall be members of the Group. Amendment tabled seven. 5., amended 10. 5. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Support for technological development projects. The members of the coalition shall be members of the parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Preschool Education. Amendment under order number 1 of which the members of the coalition's parliamentary group are candidates. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment under order number 2 is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Explanation of the vote, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u278	Thank you very much. It is similar to the amendment that you have then tabled by coalition partners, but I would like to say that it is a matter of visibility, that for another child involved in kindergarten, it is necessary to provide funds to relieve parents of payment of the kindergarten allowance. This is about 3 million 750, you've recognized 3 million 500 thousand. I think by giving your voice to this amendment, you wouldn't do anything wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u279	We will vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Primary Education. The amendment under order number 1 is proposed by the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment under order number 2, the same sub-programme with the same user, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Mr. Kavtičnik, an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u280	Thank you very much, President. Here, however, the matter is a little more serious because it is a matter of resources that should be allocated to children with decisions. The government has recognised the need to help children with decisions and additional professional assistance. However, I did not see how they would provide the funds. This amendment would provide all those children who have a recognised or proven current weakness in development, but who can be remedied at the initial stage of their development if they receive appropriate professional assistance. These children can only have a deficit in a certain area and elsewhere they function normally, and if we help them in the right way at the right time, they can normally get involved in later work and normally complete both secondary school and all study programmes. There is a need for sufficient listening, sufficient understanding, to help children, who have been properly and very successfully integrated into primary school programmes, to complete compulsory education and to become normally involved in future life. That's why this amendment makes sense to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u281	We will vote on the amendment under order number 2. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Primary Education. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Subprogramme – Programmes in Culture and Media. Here we have four amendments. First of all, the amendment is in order number 1, and the proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment under order number two, same program, same user. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number three, same user, same subroutine. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. An amendment under order number four, the same user, the same subroutine, the same proposer. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I can't believe we're just shaking culture with our left hand. I have already said many times in the introduction, and we have also heard that culture has kept us in this multicultural society, European society, somehow. That it's the culture that gave us the identity. And if we don't return to culture at least as much as we can give it, even with austerity measures, then it can happen that those most important and those recognized cultures will leave. It is true that culture was also when we didn't have a culture ministry, but I don't want us to come back to those times and those times and get the Slovenians into such difficult times and suffering that we can create a culture and maintain a culture when we don't have anything to eat or when we don't have anything to identify with. So I ask you to support at least some amendment that would give culture a chance to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u283	Mr. Franz Pukšič, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u284	Given that the amendment is going to fall, not because we don't want culture, but because it's taking on the Slovenian item in substitution and in the world, because we like to say that we have about 500,000. They live outside all the continents, and if anyone does, then they know how and how they kept it. My friend Kavtičnik visited them all over the world, along with me, and saw what they did without money. Joseph, we've always been such a stepmother in this country on these items, but unfortunately, taking it here is unfair. Of course I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u285	We will therefore vote on the amendment under order number four. I've suspended the vote. I don't know who it is. [[advertising from the hall]] You've explained earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group, but now you want to replicate? That doesn't count. Promise? Good. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Kavtičnik and then Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much, President. By this time, you could have known that I would have done what I said. Look, if we don't have a culture in our homeland, then they won't be able to develop it that successfully. If we do not keep our language and culture here, then there will also be problems for the Slovenians. Therefore, it is right to support the amendment, no matter where it is taken, because it is necessary to take it somewhere. And when we save, we all have to save.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u287	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u288	Given the atmosphere and response of coalition colleagues and colleagues, I find that there is no point in explaining [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u289	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, you have just introduced a new parliamentary practice. We're kind of used to getting up when we're talking. I think we can vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, for 25, for 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User of the Koper District Court, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. The rapporteur is the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Mrs. Masha Kociper, an explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u290	Your Honor! Our Group of Members will support this amendment and the next ten amendments. Why, I have already explained in detail on the parental committee, where I was extremely glad that these amendments have also been decided by members of the coalition. The amendment allows for the continuation of a 10-year-old abroad and at home of a very successful programme to the Court of Associated Mediation. Mediation means a negotiated, faster and much cheaper settlement of disputes for the state and citizens. The Court of Justice shall decide on a third of the cases. Mediation is successfully completed in 60% and in family matters in 72%. These family mediations are also the only type of mediation paid in full from the state budget. The average mediation is concluded at two double meetings. These two meetings should be held within three months and the average cost of mediation is €87 and the average hour of the mediator is €34. The work of the mediator, pure work, is also more than half as cheap as the work of the judge, and complaints, re-decisions and executions in these cases are also dropped. The letter from the President of the Supreme Court, who came today, I understand in particular his call for additional funds to be allocated to the courts. The President of the Supreme Court made it clear that he was in favour of mediation, but that he wanted additional funds to be allocated to the courts for other programmes. The Minister has already warned that despite your amendment, the presidents will have the opportunity to redistribute these funds in their own way, even though they would support this amendment. We have not taken these options with the amendment, but we have made an important message that policy supports the peaceful resolution of disputes and supports the continuation of these programmes, which constitute a new culture in the resolution of disputes. So I appeal to you to support these amendments. Don't tie your hands to the judges, to the presidents of the courts. Their hands are completely free in redistribution, but you give an important political message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u291	Thank you. We will vote on the amendment with the user of the Koper District Court, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. Explanation of the vote, Mrs Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'd like to join my colleague Masha. The mediation actually contributes to the resolution of the dispute, because we know that the trials in the court are lengthy. At that time, many things happen, people lose their will or trust in the rule of law, since these conflicts are marathon. I think that the mediation, now that it has become legal, the colleague said that these two mediations are very financially beneficial, so I also appeal to my colleagues on the left, help people to then live a normal life in peace. Because judicial proceedings are, I must say, so long-lasting and so painful and whoever gets involved in these matters has experience or a seal for life and has actually lost confidence in the judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u293	We're voting on the amendment. The 77 Members and Members present voted in favour of 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. District Court in Kranj, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. District Court in Ljubljana, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. Mrs. Masha Kociper, an explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u294	That's all, and then I stop boring you. In this particular court, which is also the most successful in the country and in this area, the withdrawal of funds, if this amendment is not available, means that they will not be able to pay the mediators or for the work they have already done in the mediation this year. Please let someone go once to listen to some mediation as one mediator tortures, listens, works hard and wants to help people solve disputes peacefully. They will not even receive this payment, for they have already run out of funds to pay if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u295	Vote explanation, Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u296	Perhaps it would be better if I did this next time we were talking about the Maribor District Court, though. I have to say, I'm surprised by the coalition's behavior. I was really happy with the gestures that the coalition showed on the Committee on Finance, which was on Thursday early in the morning or sometime at night, when, to the great surprise of everyone in these amendments, the coalition showed that it had some hearing for the opposition's proposals. That is why I deeply regret this behaviour of the coalition's positions groups, especially because these programmes are an important way to achieve greater legal certainty among people, so that, with professional assistance, the disputers actually sit down and find a solution to each other by giving in and building understanding between them. Solutions that are indisputable, which cannot be complained of later and, in particular, which cost the country substantially, significantly less money than the potential court dispute. Your conduct is therefore unreasonable from this point of view, because the funds that the proponents wish to devote to these items are actually drawn from within the same programmes, i.e. from the programmes of the Slovenian courts. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u297	There is quite a desire to discuss this amendment for 20 000 euros. I'm going to open up an application to explain my voice. Mrs. Sasha Kos, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Here we are in finance, as my predecessors have mentioned, it is actually a cheap matter or also stimulating for people who are in such or other difficulties. Look at the cost of a court case or mediation. If we compare this with each other, we actually see that we are helping these people who don't have a lot of high incomes, so we also help them by talking about humanity and so on. It's a very nice gesture to help people who don't have money for these expensive trials. You know what the legal fees are, that I don't talk about how, at the expense of the ignorance of people, lawyers take advantage of this and make it impossible for people to come to a fair verdict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u299	Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u300	I must say that I am very disappointed that we have unanimously confirmed these proposals, including the position, as well as the government's parties. And I am very surprised that for these few tens of thousands of euros we are now losing here, for the first time, time, a second understanding of these procedures, and it seems to me that we are not going to save anything and that we are going to help a lot of people solve the problems. You need to know that cases in court are very, very expensive so that everyone can't afford them and is forced to look for alternatives, which is an alternative to solving cases. I tell you, I will vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u301	Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u302	Your Honor! I believe that it is difficult for colleagues in the coalition to hear that they must now vote against austerity measures. If you have listened well, what you would vote in this is an absolute austerity process and you should propose a change to the amendment and add some euro to it, because on the other hand you could save in court. I really don't get it that way. We are aware that you have cut the courts — as we were told — linearly, like everything else, and that there are problems. In addition, I hope, Minister, that you have heard that some accounts will remain unpaid. I hope you know that this is contrary to the law on the implementation of the budget, where the payment deadline is 30 days, and this money will have to be provided anyway. This would make it significantly easier for colleagues in the coalition to make these amendments today – but we are talking about minimum amounts, specifically about 20,000 euros. That's why I would also appeal to you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u303	Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! I would also like to say that I am surprised by the misunderstanding of such a sensitive area, which I myself have met in the role of representative of patients' rights, which is partly related to mediation procedures, which really represents a peaceful settlement of the dispute between the two consensual parties, who want to resolve the conflict in this way, which, after the mediation law, in particular in economic disputes, limits the dispute to 30 days, as opposed to trials that are years old, even in some cases for decades. That is why I appeal to the individual who expects a solution from us to support the amendment when every decision we make in the National Assembly is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u305	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u306	I will support this amendment as well as the previous one regarding mediation. Alternative dispute resolution is also a community, a local community a few years ago in the vast majority of the first to support. Today, there is a lot of talk about how we want to help those who live the hardest. If this desire is so sincere, including coalitions and governments, then there will be no doubt about these amendments. I will definitely support this, and I wish that, as my colleague said, the coalition would change its mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u307	And Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u308	I'll vote against it. I will vote against what all my colleagues have already said, so I will not say it again. But the fact is, there's something else I'm sad about. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Something else disappointed me. I was disappointed that at two, three o'clock in the morning, when the Committee on Finance decided to do so, in fact, the decision-makers were asleep and unable to make decisions. They couldn't influence it, so there was this high consensus that they were all "for" because they understood essentially the basis of all of this. Today we are deciding this afternoon, of course it is already clear ahead that those who decide to follow the matter, and more than clearly, I hope that those who really make the decision, and this is what we all have here today, have met reason and will support this amendment and will make a substantial amount of savings. I beg you to understand, of course, unless this is Mr Tank's hand that he raises and says they're against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u309	Mrs. Romana Tomc. I'll open the application. You're going to be first, you don't have to apply, and for the rest of you, I'm opening the application. You can begin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u310	It's a bit of an unusual situation. I will not support the amendment. Despite being on the board, I was one of those who supported this amendment. We haven't been asleep and we haven't been sleeping, we've been thinking with a very sober head, and I support mediation and I support this way of resolving disputes today, but I would like to tell everyone here that we don't even take or give money with this reallocation. We do everything within the same court, redistribute from one item to another item, which, if we are honest, could be done by the presiding officers or by those responsible in the courts if they knew how to do so. I do not think there is any reason or harm to the alternative settlement of disputes for mediation and for anything if we do not support this amendment, so today I will not support it because it can be settled in the courts themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u311	Mr. Richard Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u312	Your Honor, I will not support the amendment myself. The first thing that bothers me in this matter is that colleague Kociper proposes these amendments because of her own kindergarten. The other thing that is more important, however, is that you are probably not familiar with all the dimensions of mediation in this room. Mediation means extra costs for customers and if we find that mediation is not successful in approximately 40 cases, these parties still return to court with additional costs. Customers usually come in front of mediators with a lawyer, and these are the costs I'm talking about. Mediation isn't free. The first three hours are free, and every next hour is paid, as far as the costs of the mediators are concerned. As far as the legal costs are concerned, take that into account. Costs for a client are coming in. One more thing. In fact, we are evaluating the Court's Institute. We have courts to judge and not to send customers to court. One more thing. We also have a special settlement claim on the first plea of principal consideration, which is intended for this – settlement. That's why I'm going to be here with a light heart and I'm going to be referring to my colleague Tomc, who has also explained what it's like to have these transfers within the courts. We don't take anything from the courts. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u313	Mr. Franzege, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u314	Your Honor, Mr. President. I invite you to express your clear expectation of Member Branisli, who happens to belong to your party to apologize to Mrs Kociper. I am firmly convinced that Mrs Kociprova has proposed these amendments because she sincerely believes in an alternative dispute resolution as an indisputably successful way to communicate between the people who are in conflict. The statistics of cases clearly show that such cases produce results. However, if you allow anyone to manifest private interests in this story, it is very interesting that Mr Branisel has clearly taken a stand against the acceptance of these amendments. Who cares that mediation doesn't work? Lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u315	There's no replica, there's no debate. I'd say next. In both cases, in explanation of Mr Branisl's voice and in your so-called procedural proposal, Mr Frangež, the same was expressed, but someone is urged to propose or decide something because of their own interests. I think it is right that we do not discuss in this way and that we do not assume evil intentions in every move of our colleague. That's not right. Mr. Tanko, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u316	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this, nor the other amendments that we have not decided on, because even the applicant himself says that what is under the amendments can be done by the President of the Court. This is said to have the power to redistribute costs or positions within the court. So we're doing something we don't need to do. We work because someone in the National Assembly likes us to do this, not because of content or because we would give added value in court. We don't give anything with that. If the President of the Court has a problem that he can't provide money for mediation, he's redistributing it from another item, just like you're proposing. And let the courts, in the framework of the implementation of their plan, do so on their own budget. I don't know why we'd be doing this for them now if their business year wasn't over. I also propose to everyone else that when we discuss the amendments and decide on the amendments, we do so where it is necessary. But to do something just to do it, let us not do it because it is a waste of time and money. As a matter of fact, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u317	Thank you. There's no replica. We're voting on the amendment. Have you previously reasoned on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on its behalf first Mrs Maša Kociper and then Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u318	It's really bad for me that this is how it got cooked. If I didn't think there was anything wrong with it, it's in meditation. But I can see that it's possible to find something wrong with every single thing if that's what you want. I assure you that I have no interests and I cannot have them. It is my interest to keep this matter going and to continue to do well. I will not talk to you about matters when we have resolved 30 years of ongoing disputes between brothers who had 60 open court proceedings, various proceedings: property, property, constitutional disputes. All of this is solved with one mediation. Courts have been working on these cases for years and years. And when lawyers talk about stopping mediation, I can understand them. I also understand some judges who disagree with mediation, because this is some kind of competition for judicial decision, some other form of dispute resolution. And please, let's not make a political circus out of something that's meant to do something good. Customers can come to a mediation without lawyers, customers do not need a lawyer, customers make a completely voluntary decision on mediation, no one forces them to do so and mediation usually ends within a free watch fund. And please, please, decide for these 20,000 euros if you think that this is something you can support as a politician, give one positive message, or reject and really ask your colleagues if they refuse to explain themselves to the vote in order to end this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u319	As part of our explanation of vote, we had a lively debate on one four hundredths of the state budget transferred from one to the other item of the same budgetary user. I don't think anyone else wants to explain their voice. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u320	Thank you very much, President. Mediation as an alternative to the resolution of legal disputes only results in a reduction in the length of legal disputes. The result of this measure, of course if you do not support this amendment, is that the waiting periods in the courts will only be extended. Mediation is the right way to cut costs. Here are the only ones who won't earn a little more due to long-term court proceedings, only lawyers can. And I really don't understand you, Mrs Tomc, whether you don't know the situation or whether when you voted in favour of the Committee on Finance, you were in a different state. And Mr. Braniselle is the same. I think that's one hell of a trick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u321	We're voting on the amendment. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User District Court in Maribor, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. The proposal is a positive Slovenia by the Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User District Court in Murski Sobota, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Next amendment, User District Court in Novi Gorica, subprogramme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. The proposal is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Vote explanation, Mr. Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u322	Don't get me wrong. I didn't want to stop the mediation. That didn't come out of it. Lawyers are interested in mediation because it is, they make extra money. And thirdly, let's leave the Presidents of the Court with the possibility of distribution. We take nothing from the courts, but let the Presidents of the courts put it within their respective headings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u323	We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User New City District Court, Subprogramme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User District Court in Krske, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User District Court on Ptuj, sub-programme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment. User District Court in Slovenj Gradec, subprogramme – Alternative settlement of judicial disputes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. And the last amendment. User District Court in Ljubljana, Support – Alternative dispute resolution. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Individually. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u324	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will vote against this part of the budget for a simple reason, because budgets are practically imprecise from 2007 onwards. Members receive the state budget only to sub-programmes, while items and accounts are hidden and can be seen in essence only by officials in individual ministries. Thus there is no visible investment in this state budget. There are also no items in the development programme plan which will be implemented and which will not be implemented. For example, I could not determine, even though I had some informal information, whether funds under the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture were provided in this State budget. It is said whether the Cultural Tolar Act is included in this state budget or not. As a matter of fact, I will not vote in favour of this rebalancing. I must say that today I am delighted with only one conscience, namely the conscience of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Paris, that a positive ICOMUS report on the entry of Idria and Almadena into the UNESCO World Heritage List has come. Everything else is more or less sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u325	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have thus concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. I ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Šuštersič, whether the balance of the budget is aligned between revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u326	A harmonisation amendment to the rebalance should be drawn up, given that several amendments have been adopted. I think we can prepare in half an hour if it doesn't take that much work.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u327	Good. On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is not harmonised. A harmonisation amendment should be prepared. This harmonisation amendment will be drafted by the Government and will then be defined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The board meeting will be held at 7:20 p.m. in the big salon. However, the continuation of our meeting will be at 8 p.m. I'm interrupting the session at this point. Procedurally, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u328	The President, however, may consider a procedural proposal here. Since we have a new session Monday to try to stop this session at this point and then continue the discussion at the regular session on Monday. I don't think anything special is going to happen, and I suggest you consider this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u329	Thank you. Given that we have already done so much work this week and it has been so intense, I suggest that we take this budget package to the end today and, as we say, continue at 20 o'clock. Thanks for the suggestion, though.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u330	I think you all got on the bench an additional report from your mother's working body and a proposal from the harmonisation amendment. We continue the suspension of the meeting of the National Assembly and the suspension of item 2 of the agenda, with the consideration and vote on the Government's harmonisation amendment to the Proposal for a rebalancing of the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Would you like to speak with the government's representative, Minister of Finance? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u331	Good evening. We have prepared a harmonisation amendment that aligns the general part of the budget with the amendments adopted at the time of consideration of the specific part of the budget. This and no more, because this is a harmonisation amendment in relation to the law on budgetary implementation which allows for the determination of the necessary reallocation between the year where it will be shown that any spending rights are planned at a slightly too low or where too high, transfers can be made to ensure the normal implementation of the budget and the implementation of the legislation, including amendments included in the law on public finances balance. The harmonisation amendment is prepared so that the deficit of the state budget still remains at the same level as €1 billion or expenditure of €9 billion, a deficit of 3% of gross domestic product. This is, of course, only a state budget calculated by the method of payment or cash flow. As you know, a different accounting method, based on the principle of commitments made and also on the definition of the country sector as established in Europe, is used to show the budget or public finance statistics within the European Union. Our assessment is that, according to this methodology, the country's deficits will be somewhere between 3.5% and 4% this year, based on past years' experiences, which means that this budget is very close to what we have announced today, or that the European Commission's assessment of the 4.3% deficit for the whole sector of the country this year is very close to what we have just announced. The European Commission has already taken into account in its assessments those measures which were known at the time of the mid-month evaluation. What is important for us to know is that the European Commission's assessments speak of a clearly expected trend in deficit reduction in this and next year, which is, of course, a great novelty in the trends and behaviours of economic policy in Slovenia. And, as is possible in the explanatory memorandum, the only major difference between this year's deficit assessment, published by the European Commission today, and what we are not only predicting, but now we are also law-abiding, is a lower income assessment based on a slightly lower economic growth assessment. So there is no big difference. I propose, of course, that you confirm this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u332	Thank you. The harmonisation amendment was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Andrey Shirtzle, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u333	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supported the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u334	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Matevž Frangež, the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u335	First, it must be noted that, despite the very simple attempt of the coalition to harmonise the adoption of the balance, this balance of the state budget is inconsistent. It is not aligned with the Public Finance Balance Act and is also internally inconsistent. The coalition should make an effort to bring the real picture into line with the relevant amendments. It is not true that it is possible for all items deemed to be non-harmonised to be related to uncertain facts, so that we do not know what the consumption of the country will be. As an example only, the agreement reached with the trade unions provides for a reduction of the expected expenditure of €80 million. This is not reflected in this harmonised general part of the budget. Social Democrats are therefore afraid that, at the beginning of this budget, it is possible to talk about unrealistic budgetary planning. In these discussions these days, the Coalition is very pleased to point out that the 2012 budget we adopted in 2010 was adopted on unrealistic assumptions. However, I would remind you that it was adopted at a time when we did not know what scale the debt crisis in Europe would have. We do know, however, that in 2010, in the second half of 2010, the debt crisis actually received its proper installations in Europe. By the way, the 2012 unrealistic budget was adopted at the time on the basis of projections by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. We therefore note that there will be many problems with the implementation of this budget. Of course, we understand that this is the responsibility of the government coalition. However, if it is possible to say that this budget is more realistic than what was adopted in 2010, yet it is not good news for transparency, transparency and some brilliance of the public financial policy in Slovenia that today, even before we actually accept it, we are aware that it is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u336	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because, of course, the experiment with that amendment failed, you give it away, you take something, you just don't know how much, today is definitely a rebalancing that isn't in line with the laws that have been passed. Such an uncoordinated balance, I don't think we've accepted it yet. I firmly believe that we will adopt a decision immediately after the implementation of the rebalancing which will put an end to the implementation of the budget, of course in accordance with the provision you are still extending in the law on the implementation of the budget and that we will have another balance in this national assembly. Just like that, redistributing it to my estimate of between 150 million and 200 million won't be that easy. As I have already said many times today, the only way, if you have already decided to take the law as it is, would be to take the rebalancing out of the process, make a new one, harmonise everything you need to harmonise, and then re-adopt it. A new parliamentary practice again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u338	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the national budget's proposal for a rebalancing. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 to 19. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u339	Your Honor! The proposed budget balance, which we are deciding on, together with the Public Finance Balance Act, is the first realisation of the new development paradigm of the modern social consensus of responsibility, the responsibility of not being able to account for what we are doing today for the next generation. It is symbolic that public spending is declining by €800 million. In 2009, however, the then coalition in the government of Mr Pahor raised public spending for exactly the same amount with a rebalancing. In some ways, then, we return to the real foundations. Most importantly, the adoption of this act is in the development interest of the State of Slovenia. It will enable the improvement of credit ratings, making Slovenia easier to afford, at a reasonable price, therefore cheaper money, which means an essential advantage for Slovenian entrepreneurship, which needs it bloodyly. The biggest problem of Slovenian entrepreneurship at this time is, of course, a bank spasm of too expensive and hard to reach on the world market. It is therefore in the Slovenian development interest to adopt these acts and I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u340	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u341	Your Honor! I didn't want to make any calls, but after this Mr. Grimes's execution, I have to answer, in particular, at least two. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u342	I'm sorry, yes, but there's no point in explaining to the voice that you're answering.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u343	I'll explain my voice [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u344	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u345	and thus, of course, very clearly explained what we had heard before. [[...]] Let me cut to the chase. If this is a new paradigm, then someone lives in illusion. I hope you're aware that this is a fairy tale you've been selling to all Slovenes and Slovenes for some time. I'm afraid I'm afraid in a few months we'll be listening here again, but I don't know what you'll say if it's another dimension of the new paradigm. I have to vote against it because you just didn't convince me with all these steps you're taking. I advise you that next time at least you are silent and vote and do what you have decided to do. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-11-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u346	Good. This conclusion was not most polite, I must point out, but fine. You've been through a lot this week. It's late. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 27. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the 2012 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a further proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Finance Committee and the monetary policy of the Magi. Mr Andrej Shirtzlj, Ambassador of Bojan Starman [[Nationality list]] and Member of Mr Matevž Frangež [[Social Democrats]] to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the final text of the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the decisions taken by the National Assembly. We vote on the decision. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And then there's the last point. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012, urgent procedure. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not notified me of any inconsistencies, so that we can vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly and thank you very much and I wish you a nice weekend.
