ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the continuation of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratusek, Masha Kociper, mag. Barbara Zgeiner Tavsh, mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Jana Jenko, Maria Plevčak and Ivan Hršak. Nice to meet you. Hello, colleague Jana Jenko, wrong information, also Mr Ivan Hršak. There's a low flow of information in the National Assembly. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we go to the 27th item of the agenda, I would like to remind you again, today at 11.20 we will be addressed by Mr Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is on a defensive proposal for the discharge of members of the Agency's board of directors for the management of capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia. By letter of 5 July 2012 to the National Assembly, the Government proposed that the capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia discharge members of the administration, namely Mr Marko Golob and mag. Danilo Grasic. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Nicely greeted! The government has proposed the discharge of both members of the AUKN administration, because it considers that they have exceeded their powers in their operations, given the Capital Investment Management Act, that they have carried out their work in an unprofessional and unscrupulous manner, in particular by providing the public, Members and certain stakeholders, for example, with unwarranted and unscrupulous information to which they should know or warn that they are based, but have not done so. They showed them as if they had been informed of the facts concerning the recapitalisation of NLB, which they were not informed about, because they were not included in the negotiating group. And secondly, in these statements, in this letter, which also the Members received, they referred to things which, as an experienced asset manager, should know that it is not possible. If I give only two cases, but there are many more in the explanation, they stated that the New Ljubljana Bank was supposed to buy a hybrid loan of 100% nominal value from KBC, even though it should know that this is impossible. Such a buy-in under the recapitalisation programme must be confirmed by the European Commission, and if no one else, if not the economic logic itself, requires such a buy-out to be made with the discount, it is according to some current market value of the loan. This discount was then even more than 50 % for one loan. Another similar issue was the claim that the NCBs would invest capital in the New Ljubljana Bank at the price of 0.8 book values, which was also impossible because such prices would not be allowed by the European Commission. The bank must be marketed, it must not be invested at a price higher than some normal expected market value, and it was ultimately estimated at 0.42 book values, as you know, it is said to be about half less. The other thing, when we read non-professional, non-disclosure, is perhaps even more important than this misinformation, but it is that they are as members of an administration – and it is not an economic company, nor an undertaking, nor a company, nor a grandfather, not a separate company, nor a horticultural or trade union, but a state authority, by its legal definition – as members of the administration of that State authority, have gone so far as to be at some point on the day of the key vote on the Banking Act and the decisions on banks that would allow the implementation of the recapitalisation, sent a letter to Members with these misleading, non-real statements that they themselves should know and I am sure that they also knew that they could not be real, all in order to prevent the vote on this matter. If the amendments to the Banking Act were not then a vote, recapitalisation in the manner it was made with conditionally convertible bonds would not be possible, the real effect of their conduct could be serious material damage not only to the budget which should then actually invest its money, but to the Republic of Slovenia, which should be in charge of an additional percentage of gross domestic product or because it would probably not be possible to do so within one week, this would probably seriously jeopardise the stability of the financial system. It was a scenario that we have already seen in the Agency and its conduct in the past, such as the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, where the agency has already acted contrary to the government's expectations, literally in recent days the government's recapitalisation plans have been mined. We were very close to this scenario with the NLB. During that meeting of the National Assembly, where amendments to the State Banking Act were decided, we also received communications from Belgium, what was actually going on, or whether the Agency would once again take action to prevent the agreed plans at that time. Fortunately, we were able to calm this down, but we were very close to being threatened not only by government plans, but mainly by the economic interests of the state in recapitalisation, because of some political and politically motivated behaviour. Therefore, we believe that this resolution is necessary, that it is also necessary, that it can be an example of how it should not be done, and we expect you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. To present the report to the Commission, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak, President, but she is cancelling. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! Following the resignation of the President of the AUKN, Mrs Komar, the government also submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to resolve both members of the administration, Mr Grasic and Mr Golob. The Government's proposal is properly substantiated and we agree with the explanation in our Group. As regards the resolution or recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, it is not possible to overlook the intervention of two members of the Agency's administration, who, without the agreement of the President of the Administration, with public calls and letters addressed to certain institutions, individuals and the public, accused the government of intending to sell the New Ljubljana Bank to a co-owner of the KBC. These interventions are likely to have caused considerable damage to the international reputation of the State, the bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, and the banking system, and have caused unrest among potential stakeholders to purchase CoCo bonds, and in the end it was necessary to recapitalise the state budget. None of the doubts have happened, and confidence in the management of state assets has also been shattered. Although members of the board claim that the letters have not been sent, the content is well known. They may not have sent this letter, but they did nothing to find out who sent it inside the agency. If such content is indeed escaping from the Agency, then we can assume that other confidential business information is leaking, and we can be concerned about the way state property works and manages, i.e. the way the Capital Investment Management Agency works. In view of the aggressiveness and numbering of the performances of one of the members of the AUKN administration over the past few weeks, the conclusion that these are politically motivated attacks on the government offers on its own. The new Ljubljana Bank is in itself a problem. In December last year, the President of the Administration resigned and after eight months, we still do not have an operational director with full powers. And in three years a similar case occurred in the New Ljubljana Bank for the second time, and the agency, which also has jurisdiction over the work of the New Ljubljana Bank, has done nothing in this area in order to obtain a director with full powers. There's been a lot of talk about how the agency manages state property very well. At least those who defend the agency's administration say so. However, we can already see from the Agency's report that the return on investments managed by AUKN is poor. In 2010, the return was minus 2.86%, last year, in 2011, only plus 0.23%. On average, therefore, it is quite negative, which means that the real value of investments or government silver is declining. Taking into account the losses and recapitalisation at this time, we have large costs in place of some positive effects with state property. Let me remind you, some of you, that at the beginning of your previous mandate, at the beginning of 2010, Romano Jordan Cizelj, headed by the President of the Council of the NEK Fund, is said to be a fund for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, with one of the most important findings being that the profitability of the portfolio of the fund is too low. At that time, however, the return on this fund was 6,30 %. Now these members of the management, with poor return on the portfolio, defend on all the weights, just as you did in the previous mandate of Kresalovo and Golobič. AUKN is the government, the former government has set up to ensure independent and professional management of state property, but I wonder whether that was true. If we remember the process of recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, let me remind you of the sudden windfall and pressure of the current Minister of Finance Križanič and the uncles in the background, this happened until April 2011, which led the agency to force three well-standing state-owned companies, Mail Slovenia, GEN energy and Elektro to invest 47 million euros in the purchase of shares in the New Credit Bank Maribor, which also earned us a lot of mistrust in the financial markets. In this short time, the value of these three Slovenian companies decreased by about five times. Now I also ask: Has anyone demanded responsibility for this financial fiasco? What were the consequences for the administration then? Not at all, actually. Only the current Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, is the administration of the agency, says Komarjevo, Grašić and Goloba, because of suspicions of corruption he has announced to the Commission to prevent corruption. After a year and a half, we haven't received this committee's response. Nobody cares about the response of the anti-corruption commission. At that time, however, the Anti-Corruption Commission also issued some communications relating to the way laws are dealt with in the National Assembly and on urgent procedures, which in fact have nothing to do with corruption. But all those you love so much about the Anti-Corruption Commission, which you like to quote very much. Therefore, in a year and a half, the Anti-Corruption Commission could probably determine whether the suspicions of the former Prime Minister regarding the corruption of the AUKN administration and perhaps others in this process were justified or not. There was also a lot of talk about the Agency providing mainly or exclusively professional staff for individual functions. But however we turn, Mr Boris Sovič, who was appointed director of Elektro Maribor a few months ago, is known only to the Slovenian public as a long-standing politician and long-standing official of the SD, the Social Democrats, and not as an expert. We will support the proposal to resolve both members of the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Today we are considering a proposal for the discharge of members of the Board of Directors of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. It must be made very clear that the members of the administration to be dissolved today by the National Assembly were not allowed to defend themselves on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. In accordance with the rules and procedures of discharge, both provided written explanations of all the observations and responses to all the allegations cited by Minister Šuštersič as a proposal for a discharge. And from this material it is evident that there are unjustified reasons to resolve. We are also particularly concerned by the fact that the Minister is afraid to face members of the administration, because of course he would also publicly reject all the evidence in this case. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also does not want to consider the report of the Capital Investment Management Agency for 2011, as it would appear that great progress has been made in the management of state assets. The fact is also that the Coalition Finance Committee rejected the agenda item where the Social Democrats requested a preliminary discussion on the report of the Capital Investment Management Agency in 2011. You also prevented a debate on the Agency's report on the Committee on Finance. We believe that the coalition wants to discredit members of the Capital Investment Management Agency administration first, and then eliminate both members and the Agency. What's the interest in this liquidation? We can follow the procedure by amending the Capital Investment Management Act. In fact, in March of this year, the coalition changed the law by which the agency seized its independence and wanted it and wanted to be fully subordinated to the government. This was not fully successful because it was also contrary to the rules governing corporate governance of state-owned companies and is also contrary to the objectives and views of the OECD. However, the fact is that the agency, and especially the two members you are trying to resolve today, has pointed out a number of irregularities in the operations of banks. And we wonder why the Minister of Finance is blocking the special revision of the New Ljubljana Bank proposed by the Agency. This audit proposes to revise all transactions carried out between the group of the New Ljubljana Bank, members of the Supervisory Board and members of the committees of the Supervisory Board and associated persons. This means that it wants to block the identification of the culprits for the situation in the bank, given the fact that many SDS members controlled the bank when bank loans were granted. And here we see the reason why the coalition today opposes such functioning of the agency and why it today supports the dismissal of members of the administration. We have already spoken publicly at a meeting of the National Assembly on this, when a decree was adopted on the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, which, by the way, took away the power of the National Assembly to monitor the sale process of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. And then we also made it very clear whether the Minister of Finance will give up if some cases at the New Bank of Credit Maribor are obsolete, when, as we can understand from many statements, money is physically carried in suitcases from this bank. However, it is the 10 million amounts that have obviously been transferred to safe locations, and this money can be used for a number of actions that are carried out either during the pre-election campaign or for the exercise of other capital interests. And at this point in Parliament today, we are talking about getting rid of those who want to prevent money laundering in banks. So, who's the minister protecting, who's the coalition protecting? At the time of the Bank's largest lending, the President of the Supervisory Board was a member of the SDS, Mr Igor Marinšek. You wanted to appoint this to the Supervisory Board of New Credit Bank Maribor, and you stopped this appointment based on media pressure. Let me mention just a few more reasons that the Government has proposed and have been prevented by the Capital Investment Management Agency, and above all by these two members that you want to account for today. The Agency has also prevented the appointment of persons to Luca Koper and other bodies prosecuted by these companies because they had already participated in transactions that had harmed these companies and had led to damage to state property. From the Office of the Minister of Infrastructure, namely Mr Černač, a list of the appointment of supervisors in Telekom Slovenije was sent and the Government also requested such a decision to be taken at the meeting. This is obviously the illegal operation of the government. And just in the case of Telekom, New Credit Bank Maribor and Nova Ljubljanska banka, this can be reasoned. And the legality of the government's personnel tsunami is now questioned even by the government's legal service, which we can also understand from the daily newspaper, say June 15, 2012. In short, the Social Democrats will vote against the dismissal of the members of the Capital Investment Management Agency, because we want a review of banking transactions first. This is also the basis, if necessary, for the action of criminals, if there is no audit, criminals do not have access to the operations of banks. And what the Government has been doing right now with the internal checks on banks is simply and simply because of the continued concealment of the harmful business that is causing us to be in trouble with the economy and the bank today. And we will not vote in favour of the Social Democrats because we do not want to allow political clienteleism, which exhausts the banks and the economy, resulting in the cheap sale of Slovenian banks, insurance companies, companies, especially companies operating in the energy field. In short, the replacement of these two members in the agency opens political clienteleism and allows a number of procedures to be carried out even before a new law on Slovenian state holding is adopted, which, even after yesterday's information, you need to substantially change on the basis of the OECD warnings. So far, we have drawn attention to the mistakes you are making in managing capital investments, and so far we have always been right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Honorable President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal from the Government to dismiss the members of the Management Agency for Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Group of the Civil Service List examined in detail the reasons and evidence provided by the Government, examined the broad opinions of both members of the Administration, which both submitted to the National Assembly in response to the Government's findings under Article 20(3) of the Capital Investment Management Act and took note of further clarifications provided orally by both members of the Board at the meeting in our Group. Members of the Civil Code believe that the Government's proposal for discharge for criminal reasons is justified as it is evident that both of them violated the fifth and sixth indents of Article 20(2) of the Capital Investment Management Act. The hysteria with misinformation, as was the case with the last letter of both members of the administration to members of the National Assembly and Banka Slovenije, shows populism, unprofessional and unethical conduct. Their behaviour has also been incoherent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and has largely blocked the effective management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. We ask ourselves what message has been given to the domestic and international public during this and such conduct, and whether this has also resulted in a severe loss of the reputation of our country and its institutions, and whether material damage has been caused by this and such conduct. The management board of the Capital Investment Management Agency shall be the college body and its decisions shall be taken by voting all three members of the administration, but in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 3, of the Capital Investment Management Act, the Agency shall be represented and represented only by the President of the Administration. It is clear that both members of the Board acted unlawfully when sending letters to Members and Banka Slovenije on behalf of the institution and despite the knowledge of the Director of the Agency. The Civil Code will support the Government's proposal for discharge for reasons of guilt. These reasons are serious and justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the previous mandate, the Borut Pahor government established the Capital Investment Management Agency. At the time of its adoption, members of the Slovenian People's Party, in addition to warnings of unnecessary additional costs, new employment, added value to the administration, highlighted another fact. The Agency will be used as an instrument to avoid liability. That's exactly what happened. At that time, coalition parties set up their own agency and political work with the transfer of responsibilities could have started. If anyone in this good year and a half to early elections has nevertheless dared to question the economy and quality of government property management, then government representatives have simply raised their hands, that is now no longer in our jurisdiction, there is AUKN, that is an independent agency. Apparently, the biggest experts came from SD, Real and LDS. In recent weeks, some opposition Members have been exposing the Agency's achievements as a percentage, i.e. how much improved the operations of state-owned enterprises have been. It was, of course, improved because the worst economic cramp immediately after the start of the crisis in 2009, and not because of any actual influence by the Agency itself. In the end, members of the then ruling SD had 3 years to initiate audits and investigations into unwarranted loans from state banks. In the Slovenian People's Party, at the time of the establishment of the agency, and also later, at the pre-election time, we insisted on the same position at all times. Let's stop throwing sand in our eyes about how an agency that belongs under the state and is also in charge of the current government is independent. No, the AUKN was set up to remove its responsibility directly from the government while maintaining its influence in the management of politically-established personnel in the AUKN. And that's all nonsense. Remember when former Finance Minister Franz Križanič wished fresh funds for the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. At that time, AUKN listened to the command, the most successful state-owned companies, those who should invest their profits in development, in new investments, were practically forced to buy shares in the New Credit Bank of Maribor, and today in their balance sheet there are revaluations or capital losses. Not to mention the farce around the Human Resources Accreditation Council. And if I move now against the dismissal of the board members themselves. As far as we are aware, the Government did not want to abolish the Capital Investment Management Agency, if you remember, we took direct powers from the Agency in April and transferred them to the Government, but the agency could continue to act as an analytical and advisory body. The later aggressive media performance of both members of the board quickly convinced us that it was a wrong decision. It was interesting to observe what was happening in this agency after the current government took office.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A, I thought you had enough [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u12	In fact, the coalition agreement was clear, as was the majority of the pre-election programmes of coalition parties that announced the abolition or at least the transformation of the Capital Investment Management Agency or the transfer of its virtual powers. At that time, a media show began, in particular one of the members of the administration, who apparently acted on principle, because I have nothing to lose, but I can say good-bye in a big way. Up until a few months ago, the Slovenian public did not know who this Mr Marko Golob was. Suddenly, he became one of the most exposed media personalities. As a sharp critic of government decisions, he became a real media star, according to the number of minutes and comments in the print media, he overcame virtually all ministers of the current government. Public letters, frequent appearances and comments in the public, citing numerous assumptions, falsehoods or only half-truths, citing press conferences, even disclosure of confidential information, meeting with Members and other officials. More about this has already been said by the Finance Minister, who is a coalition member, I must stress that he regularly reported at our meetings on the conduct of both members of the administration. However, we can certainly say that in recent months the situation with the AUKN has been primarily a grave abuse of this institution for the purpose of political accounting. That turned out to be true. Is it really just a rebel for a reason, a fighter for the agency's independence? In the Slovenian People's Party we are simply too long in this political space to believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u13	Thank you. Is this the end now, Mr. Prevc? Good. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Miha, they wrote you well. I must say, as the opposition, when you were in the previous opposition mandate, you had a lot of ideas on how to save this economy. You've lost these ideas today, you have no real ideas, but you have a very good sense of staffing. And today it is proving how you worked in 2004-2008 and how you will work until the end of your term of office. You will replace a man or two members of the administration who are honest, working well, with Vitoslav Tμrk, who has a lot of problems with lawsuits, with companies that he will monitor from now on. And I'm really asking you what kind of watts you'll have in half an hour, in an hour, when you'll be naming Mr Vitoslav Tørk as the CEO of the AUKN. Ladies and gentlemen, you have proven what you know and what you can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor and Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Mr. Michael Prevc is calling it off. Mr. Matevž Frangež. He's not here. Mag. Majda Potrat, behind her, Mr. Franz Pukšič. You don't have any more time. Mr. Franz Puksich. You want a word? No, no, no. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u16	Dear comrades! Finally, they told me to speak a little too quietly, so I'll try a little louder now. But if I'm too loud, warn me. I have already said several times that the government must have leverage for effective governance, which is that where it is responsible it also has powers and that it has the possibility to appoint directly or indirectly members of the administrations, the Presidents of the administrations, the Supervisory Board and so on. This right and duty must not be challenged by any government. However, if this is the case, if it is a matter of unlawful discharge, I believe that in every democratic country, institution, company or elsewhere, there must be a possibility that the person who has been confirmed by the authority has named him or whatever else, that he or she may also have an opportunity to argue his or her actions, positions, his or her work in the past. I do not argue that I have insufficient information, and I think that we have too little information, that, of course, the members of the board have done well, I do not say so. However, it is possible to conclude a few things from some facts. The annual report that we were given — no one reasoned that the figures in the annual report did not hold. Nobody did that. So I can consider this annual report to be credible. And if it's credible, then on the basis of this annual report, I don't see any grounds for false resolution. I can't see. But there's more of us here. So I would expect us to find so much maturity and give people the opportunity to explain their actions. How would any of us feel in another position if we had been guilty of solving him would not have been able to defend him. I don't think it's good. And thirdly, if the evidence is held and the evidence is falsely resolved, it is clear that the criminal procedure must be instituted and at least to the start of the trial. Of course, we cannot influence what the verdict will be because the court is independent and autonomous, but I expect it. Otherwise, it will likely mean that the matter was not clear and unequivocal. This is what I expect in this case and, of course, in all further cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian, followed by Mr. Jože Tanko. Mr. President won't. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. It's not much time, but maybe he just explained something that won't leave it all in the air. I think that the AUKN report was probably dealt with by the Committee on the Economy and all those who wanted to be present could do so and listen. The second thing that Mr. Weber said here was that in one period in the New Bank of Credit Maribor was carrying money with suitcases, but it would point out that he was very long ago, only a good year ago, the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Credit Maribor Mr. Danilo Toplek, former Director of Taluma and also, according to media records, from Finance, a silent participant in companies that collaborated with his home society. In short, when you talk about some of the findings, then say things to the end, who were members of the administration at the time, who were members of the Supervisory Board, and probably would have been good, because you obviously knew that this had already been done with the suitcases, what measures the current policy had taken to the members of the Supervisory Board or, say, the administration of the AUKN, because it obviously knew that at the time. Some of us have recently learned about this behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. Welcome, Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, back to the parliamentary bench! We missed you. It was a little tight at heart looking at these empty seats. Does the minister want another word? Here you go, Minister Suštersitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say three things. The first is that we have given very specific reasons and very concrete actions to resolve. Today, many things have been said about what the AUKN has been doing in recent months and years. Of course not in plus or minus. What has been said is, in fact, quite irrelevant from the point of view of the explanation of our proposal. We have proposed solutions because of the things that some have seen as positive, but because of the things that are stated in the explanation and are undisputedly negative and are justified by our assessment. Another time. Regarding the fact that we have prevented any audits of the AUKN. We did not convince AUKN anything because AUKN did not propose such an audit as mentioned above. It was proposed by two members of the board, not AUKN. And this audit, as proposed, had some problems. The first was to do to a large extent the same as the careful examination that had already taken place in the bank or was prepared. Secondly, there were also certain things that could simply not be imposed or be asked whether such a revision could be done. What is more important in this context is being created all the time, this is one of the reasons we've been talking about, it's always giving the impression that we're talking about the agency, the agency's decisions, the agency's warnings, the agency's proposals, etc. That's not what this is about! It is the fact that all these acts that I have been talking about, the actions of two members of the administration, who have worked very hard to ensure that their actions, their letters, their warnings, have been presented as the position of the entire agency, in spite of the fact that the President of the administration, in some cases, has even very explicitly and publicly disagreed with what they have done, that this letter, which has also been sent to the National Assembly, has been decided by the Administration to refer this letter to the National Assembly, has been signed by two members of the Administration, while the President of the Administration has not signed it and has even expressly stated that it opposes such a decision. The whole time he was in the media talking about the agency's letter, giving him extra weight. None of them have ever tried to point out that it is not a letter from the Agency, that they have sent it without the necessary powers at the end and without the proper consent of the administration itself. Thus, I could only present it as my own personal opinion, nor should I, in my opinion, send it on the official paper of this agency, nor should I ever, when presenting it, act as a representative of the Agency. And the third time. That's what I'd like to say. With regard to what has been proposed, by the way, that we will have to correct the Slovenian State Holding Act thoroughly due to the OECD position. Mr. Webber and I were together at a meeting last night. At that meeting, I informed precisely about the positions that the OECD sent us regarding the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian State Holding. We got them one day earlier. We tried, we had the whole position with us, we also had a summary in Slovenian, and we also had written what we would change in the bill. It was four amendments, none of which were relevant in terms of content or not essential in terms of the structure of the holding company itself, it was more or less for technical corrections, for some improvement of formulations, perhaps some improvement of relations within the holding company, but it was not about changing the concept or changing the basic architecture of this holding company. At that meeting, I asked if anyone wanted to get it. No one, nor Mr Weber, has expressed such a desire. So I'm surprised that the next morning, probably after a sleepless night, I don't know, maybe he wasn't satisfied with that meeting, and he starts to explain how the OECD has imposed a substantial change to this Slovenian State Holding Act. Which is even more cynical because we have actually decided to postpone the consideration of this law in the National Assembly, so that Mr Weber, as well as members of the opposition or the parliamentary group, can participate in the coordination of this law, including with their proposals, so that we can present the solutions in detail. Although we received a positive assessment from the OECD yesterday, in our opinion. You will be able to judge this for yourself soon, because we also have the authority to present these views to the public, so that there will be no doubt as to whether I can't sum it up or whether Mr Weber can't listen or anything like that. So these matters will be very clearly presented. Yesterday we also received the union's consent or their assurance that if we regulated some of the other things in the law regarding Kad's status, there would be no referendums. Despite all these positive assurances, we decided yesterday to postpone the decision on this law so that, in a spirit of cooperation, we can also improve some of the solutions in this law with the opposition's parliamentary group. Yesterday at this meeting, I expressed my expectation that these matters would take place as we expect. We're gonna have to work fast, but we're gonna have to be careful. We're gonna have to work in some cooperative spirit. When we send a clean bill in the coming days, we expect positive, constructive responses, serious work. Yesterday, I said that I do not want this working group to start working so that we can first ask ourselves if this is the right version of the law, have 17 procedural comments, what kind of week are we going to talk about, where are we going to meet and where are we going, and so on, some representatives of the opposition laughing? I was happy to laugh because I understood this laughter as some sort of "don't worry, because we won't, yes, we're serious people, we'll act constructively". It hasn't even been 12 hours since then, and it's already misrepresenting what was presented there. The information we gave in good faith, turn it around, manipulate it, make another attack on the government, another argument against this law. Although there's no need for that, because we agreed yesterday on how we're going to proceed. I hope that in this spirit, as we agreed yesterday to participate in this marriage, you will also work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, we still have time to deal with this point, so I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to open an application for discussion. Check-in is on. You have 3 minutes 40 at your disposal. First it's mag. Majda Potrat, behind her, Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u22	Thank you. There are serious reasons why Mark Golob and Danil Grašić should be relieved. And I am seriously concerned about the level of debate that is at the level of personal accounting with the individual's moral attitude, with his personality and expertise. I thought nothing could surprise me anymore, but it can. When we discuss the suspension of Mark Golob and Danil Grašić, some are disturbed by the number of non-television shows. Is that an argument? I hear words about Mr. Boris Sovic. He was Secretary of State for Energy, he was a diplomat, he was a mayor, and he was also a man with a master's degree in electrical science. His master's job is to optimize the supply of renewable energy. Is this not a qualification for the director of Elektro Maribor or the head of management? But Mr. Tank, of course, that's not enough, he's hoping for people to shake, as he likes it, only the size of the macole is variable. I cannot say otherwise than it seems unrealistic to me that the ethical nature of the procedures is discussed by those who should first ask themselves whether their conduct has always been ethical or not. But, unfortunately, these sweeping criteria can't do it at their doorstep. What is particularly disturbing is that on the public scene we break down people who were hoping to warn themselves of irregularities. Where is the state of Slovenia, if all will receive the disqualifications and discredits that we have heard now. Members and Members should quite simply believe that these two are completely unacceptable, unprofessional and unethical people. But these people did not allow the AUKN annual report to be considered in the National Assembly, from which it could also be determined how AUKN worked so far. I believe I like Mr Mark Golob and Mr Danil Grašić to defend their human image. I have no emotional relationship with these two gentlemen. And you don't need to have it because you're doing some public function, just like me. I think that this level of debate for the National Assembly is a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u23	Mr. Robert Croat is giving up. Mr. Jože Tanko, please. After him, Mrs. Patricia Shulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. It is unlikely that those entrusted with State property management, their business or any other decision, including disagreements, express themselves in such a sensitive matter as the situation in the banking system or do not make public the scenario for the banking system. We also had a closed session where the governor was, and we just got some information. In fact, these two gentlemen did the very opposite. Where they had jurisdiction, say, in the procedures for the appointment of the new Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Maribor Credit Bank, nothing really matters. It has not been initiated, at least without the knowledge of any proceedings against those supervisors or members of the administration who have committed anything criminal in these two, three years. Even if they discovered on the basis of reports in the past periods, there was still an opportunity. They didn't initiate the procedure. It is also a problem that this family silver, this state silver we are talking about and is now the subject of this discussion managed by the AUKN, does not actually have any return. If we look at real value, its value goes down. And here we hear big speeches, exciting talks about how quality government property is managed. If you look at the report you have on the table, you will see that this yield is nothing. In the last two years, it's negative, on average negative. And if we are proud that family silver or government silver has a negative return, then something is probably wrong. Those who are entrusted with the management of this property; a large part or an important part of this property is that it is also a monopoly society; then the question is how capital and business flows flow in the management of this property. That's a big question. And I must say, there is something fundamental to be done here. As for human resources matters, in the previous term we have faced the cash registers, the Human Resources Accreditation Council, which was President of Mr Bogomir Kovac, who in the end found that none of this independence of these assets is. However, since there was no way to get past the cash register — and this was very abundant in the previous term — they changed the law and thus carried out a different human resources procedure based on the law. These were examples of the previous mandate. Speaking of Mr Sovič, I only said that the Slovenian public knew him by no means other than that he was a long-standing politician and a member of the Social Democrats, and not by professional preferences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u25	Mrs. Patricia Shulin, for her, Mr. Marjan Pojbich. Okay, Mrs. Patricia Schuline doesn't want a debate. Mr. Marjan Pojbich, not at all. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, followed by Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, I think that when we talk about personnel matters, of course, we don't have to qualify for positive and negative. People are changing today, they're going from work to work, and there's no problem. The second is that they have such or different results. We often talk about the property of Slovenia, which is, and we mention various numbers, once 11 billion, once 8 billion, once 7 billion and so on. This property requires a certain return, a return in order to ensure that the State, that is, the owner, owns a certain income and that the taxpayers benefit from this income, or that they receive better services, or that they pay less taxes. The AUKN didn't justify it. The matter is completely simple, without any political aspects, without any political aspects. If it was not effective enough here, there are probably people in Slovenia who will be able to do it better, we will see. The second issue is, of course, the question of the New Ljubljana Bank in connection with banking. After all, Nova Ljubljanska banka has been without administration for many months. Was anything done here by the AUKN? The AUKN is the one who should take action here, which should take action in order for the New Ljubljana Bank to start a better, more positive business, by actually reducing costs by making the new management a new team actually do what everyone should do, saying that it would establish such a business, such a situation in the bank, so that it would also be in the interests of the economy. This has not happened and probably also the status quo means bad. It does not always mean that the status quo is something good, but it is necessary to act and it has not acted. Despite the fact that negotiations have also taken place with foreigners at the time of the AUKN, which have actually been unsuccessful – I will not now talk any way, but probably at least ethically controversial – there are letters in public about what the negotiating venues of the NCBs, the New Ljubljana Bank and so on have been. For a businessman who manages assets, this may be controversial, and this would be controversial in any company. It's completely incontrovertible. Not because of any political issues, but because of the profession itself and because of the very presence in the management of this property. As a result, I do not look at any political issues or anything else, but simply at the fact that everyone can get better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber, followed by Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Mr Šircelj, you have personally prevented the consideration of the report of the Capital Investment Management Agency on the Committee on Finance. You should not have done that, you acted contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but you prevented it. And that you're talking about the agency doing some bad business today, it's incorrect on your part. If you wanted to let the National Assembly know about it, you would not be speaking today. Just look at the New Ljubljana Bank and the resolution of the administration. It prevented appropriate action by the supervisory boards of the NCBs, the Belgian Bank. The Agency requires an audit in Nova Ljubljanski bBanka. Are you in for a review? Just give this answer to the people, and it will be clear why you want to resolve Mr Mark Golob and Mr Danil Grašić. Why don't you support the audit? Why don't you let criminals walk into the bank and incriminate those who did these irregularities? Without a review, this cannot be done. As for the management of the Capital Investment Agency. Their aim was to prevent the same sales, prevent the staff's wheel, customerism, inefficiency of the supervisory boards and corruption. That's the point. If we do not prevent this, there will be no investors in Slovenia. If we are talking about the New Maribor Credit Bank, which you mentioned, the agency prevented the actual handover of the New Maribor Credit Bank on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. In addition, the administration, which wanted to do so, wanted to do so without the consent of the National Assembly. In fact, if you want to sell more than 50% of the country's stake in the bank, and in this case it's an insurance company, then you need to get the consent of the National Assembly. The Agency prevented this and recapitalised the bank with the capital of domestic Slovenian companies and we still maintained more than 50% of the stake in this bank and the insurance company is still in our possession, Maribor. And these companies, which have become owners of NKBM, still have these shares loaded with this bank. The Agency expects new NKBM supervisory boards and administrations to increase this return, so companies still have money safely invested. If you will sell it as planned by setting up a Slovenian state holding company, past the National Assembly, then I believe you are not interested in this return, but you are interested in the cheap sale of Slovenian property. As for my debate at yesterday's coordination with the Prime Minister of the Government, let me once again say very loudly that we have warned you all the time, including at the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, that you have the solution already given in the budget prepared by Minister Križanič or the previous government. And in the end, you actually came to the conclusion that this is the only solution that is feasible. This is what I told you, and I also told you that the Social Democrats have reminded you of everything the OECD has told you to write down in the new Slovenian State Holding Act. So follow all the warnings we have given to the Social Democrats and we will also get this material on the table, where it will also be proven and visible that our warnings have been justified and warned the government that it must respect the objectives and principles of the OECD, properly. You just didn't want to listen to us, but obviously you had to do it now, because you'd obviously shut Slovenia out of this organization.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u29	Minister Šuštersič has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u30	Mr. Weber, I wasn't talking about what you said yesterday. I was talking about what you said today. What you've been saying is a very bad journey to start some constructive cooperation that we agreed on yesterday. Yesterday you actually said what you've just summarized, I also warned you that what you said yesterday is not true, it's not true that we had in the budget funds to recapitalise the NLB, we had about 130 million of the 500 that we eventually connected in one way or another. So we did not have a solution because this solution was by no means sufficient financially compared to the hole that this bank has created in recent years under the control of AUKN. So look, I don't move around, I'm talking about numbers, while you guys talk nice. Even the criminals are already dealing with this bank, even for these audits has been a long time in recent years, I haven't got any on the table since the predecessor at the handover, please. We've done a careful check-up at this bank. This careful review is more extensive than any previous one. He gave results that are scarier than those that the bank itself reported to the Bank of Slovenia. So we know much better what the situation in this bank is, and we had to invest a lot more in this bank than what you left us. So much for that. Otherwise, as regards the OECD recommendations, as stated when these things are clearly presented to the public, it will be clear to everyone that it is a relatively insignificant matter, that there are also many positive things written in this opinion, including the things to which you object. So look, I think then everyone will be able to create their own image.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u31	Mr. Matevž Frangež, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u32	There's a lot to say about this subject. I regret that a number of coalition members have applied for the floor only to deprive the opposition of the opportunity to say something about it. Last night, with great surprise and satisfaction, I accompanied the results of yesterday's agreement. It seemed to me that wisdom prevailed, that we were all ready to step back together in order to reach acceptable compromises for all. Today, with great sadness, I note that it is no different that the coalition still pursues its very precise objectives with all its fury. And it is not important to have any means, no important personality, no name, it is important that we have enough cannonballs and that we have clearly selected targets, targets that stand in our way to the carefully chosen objectives of this coalition. He's sorry. Also because I was critical of the appointment of the Capital Investment Management Agency administration when it was appointed by the National Assembly. At that time, I argued that I miss one thing in the whole process, namely the possibility of a Member or Member to ask these people one question: "Are you prepared with all your integrity, personality, knowledge to make you prove that the country can be a good owner of businesses? Are you prepared to accept this as your personal mission?" I couldn't ask this question to three members of the board at the time. But for at least two members of the board, and I didn't know any of these before, for one I even hear that it's close to the SDS circle, I can say that they've shown by their actions that they're prepared with their knowledge, their personality, their integrity to protect state property. What's wrong? Chronic sin is supposed to be the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by some state-owned companies in 2011. But, my dears, this recapitalisation had a basis in the conclusions of the Government of Slovenia, in the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as opposed to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in June 2008, when a number of state-owned enterprises, such as DSU, Insurance companies Triglav, Sodu, Kadu, Mutual Fund Triglav, Elektro Slovenia, Drava power plants, Sava power plants, Soski power plants, Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, Geoplin, Istrabenzu, Teol Ljubljana and Telekom, were ordered by the Ministers on the phone by the Assembly: "You are participating in the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank", at a price of EUR 334 per share, at a 3-fold book value, at a 10-fold value by which you have recapitalised the New Ljubljana Bank. So what is the sin of this administration? Two members of the administration, the collective body, Mr Minister, and two in three are the majority who accept the will. Any different interpretation leads to a blockage of the agency's work, leading in fact to the answers to what has been happening in Slovenia in recent years, we will never come. Here we have to deal with two people who were ready to confront this government. And this is not an easy task, because we know what authority we have to deal with, that they were prepared here with a public word to protect the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. In such a government, we need such people to be able and ready to do this task. Therefore, it is also possible that there will not be a story happening when SDS candidates request a commission to arrange loans to [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u33	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Article 14 of the Capital Investment Management Act, Mr Frangež, says, "The President of the Administration represents and represents the Agency", which means that without the agreement and signature of the President of the Agency, two members of the administration cannot communicate to the public, write to Members and represent the agencies. They may do so on their own behalf, not on behalf of the Agency on its paper and shown as if it were the position of the Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u35	Procedural, Mr. Frangezh. As a candidate, he shall always have the right to participate in the debate at any time. Mr. Ivan Grill, after him mag. Marco Pogačnik. [[Cancel]] . Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Whoever remembers the debate in the previous term, when we adopted the law or adopted it by all those sitting here opposite, we warned in the opposition that this could not lead to the welfare of Slovenian companies and also to the management of state property. And then you were vehemently explaining, Mr. Frangež was one of those most vehemently with these philosophical phrases to justify how the AUKN will be an independent institution, how this independent asset management will be, what will be the profits here, and so on. I am pleased that you have been critical after the appointment, and also to the achievements of this, we will say whether you are infamous or well-sung by the current opposition of the AUKN. But let's ask ourselves, is this AUKN really an independent institution? My answer is no. And also the response of the media and other institutions that know this. It was beautifully written in one of the Slovenian newspapers: "AUKN extended the term of Minister Križanič". And that's exactly what the events that took place prove. Of course, what Minister Križanič ordered them to do was, of course, what they had to do at the time. And that's why I'm surprised now that the debate is that the AUKN is an institution that opposes the government. Is that the purpose of such an institution to oppose the government? This must be an institution that must work hand in hand with the government. The government is the one responsible, and, of course, it also knows not only information, but also other key factors in decision-making. And now, if I touch anything else about the functioning of the AUKN, do they really do what they should do? Again, the answer is no. They have developed a strategy that they should have when you now see that the government does not have a strategy for the sale of property. In these six months, as far as the government is concerned, of course they have not been able to deepen their efforts to produce a strategy, but the AUKN has already been obliged to do so after the decision of the previous government. She didn't do it. And now the writing of two members of the board – I suppose there was only one author here – to Members of Parliament, to the public. Is that a correct relationship? Is that abuse of position? I don't think so. And here the minister has very precisely explained what the AUKN has so far managed to do what it should do. I also think that what is ahead of us has been made clear enough by the Governor, including by the Minister, that there is a time before us when we need to find a way to rehabilitate our banks and, of course, how to manage our country's assets. But the AUKN, in its composition as it has been to this day, certainly cannot play this role, and I will therefore be happy to support that administration or those two members to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u37	Mrs. Eva Irgle. He's quitting. Mr. Lucky Meh, followed by Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Grill, thank you very much. You have admitted that this is a matter of submission to the AUKN Government, and I thank you for this recognition. What's really bothering you? It's disturbing the independence of AUKN. Independence because AUKN was the one who worked professionally without the fact that politics had an impact. From here on out, politics has a direct impact on everything that's going to happen. I suggest we leave the previous mandates alone. If we are saying what someone said in the previous term, we are now in this mandate and we must do a lot of things in this mandate. I suggest we do this. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, Janez Janša has succeeded. Manever by threatening to resign, by fiscal rule, with a holding company that will save everything. He did a fantastic job on this maneuver. Yesterday you are properly, well-removed and from now on we are talking about life's operational issues, changing personnel and, of course, putting everywhere those people who will be obedient, who will work and who will be what you really want. It's not right. Look, today we're putting down those people who ran the AUKN for two years who had good results. We're dropping these people off. And we don't know who we're gonna put up, we don't have any. And if our concern, Mr. Minister, is that governance would be good, then it would be right to hear what was wrong, so that we could discuss the AUKN report so that we could talk where there is a place to talk – on the committee so that we could ask that these two men would defend that right and we did not do that. Because we are democratic because we work democratically and because we care a great deal about our country and, of course, our property. Look, there's talk about who made a mistake in the NLB. Everyone in the process has made mistakes or made mistakes, including tycoon credits and everything else that has happened, even with everything you or actually wanted. So one more question: Why is the AUKN report not here in the National Assembly? Today, we are discussing the suspension of two men, the Director has resigned in one way or another, but we do not have a report, so we cannot talk about what has happened in the past. We will set up a new one without knowing what is really wrong without being able to draw opinions on actual arguments, content, whether the AUKN was doing well or not doing well. Why are they negative? What's gonna happen? That is, of course, the question that I am interested in, which bothers me, and where I would like to ask many questions, and of course also to say. And once again, please, stop with those uncles in the background. I always think when you're talking about the uncles in the background, you're thinking about the Brulls and me because we're back here. [[Laughing in the hall]] It's not right to do that, tell the truth, your name, you're brave, say, say what you have to say, and we'll talk like people. One more time. Why didn't you put the AUKN report that was prepared in the previous government in the National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. An important event today is that we finally discovered our uncles from the background. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor, followed by Mrs Janja Nazast.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Clearly, we have had problems with asset management in this country for years, so we have been looking all the time for a formula to enable better control and management of the investments we have in companies. During the 2004-2008 mandate, the Janšev government therefore proposed or allowed members of the Supervisory Boards to be also representatives of opposition parties. All with a view to better control and detection of irregularities as soon as possible. With the new government, it was over. First, we received the KAS, which was mentioned several times today, and even those who participated, or Mr Bogomir Kovac, who was its chairman, were critical to this body. Then you invented a new version, the Capital Investment Management Agency. And practically since the establishment we have watched a dispute between President Dagmar Komar, who is a member of the SD, and Zerez's Minister Radicov, right in connection with the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Credit Maribor. There the AUKN was first against, then, for, in fact, a good company, forcing money to be spent, and at that time some felt that the responsible persons should be accused and that the matter should be experienced by an epilogue in court. Then we followed up on the story of not taking action against Principal Dars when the sparrows chirped about what was wrong with Dars. AUKN didn't say anything about it. Then we followed the story that Mrs Radiceva was supposed to have evidence that Mr Grašič was pressing the leadership of some companies, to hire his friends, and even to demand, after leaving the government, the abolition of the AUKN because of this or other things. Then we followed the story of the selection of the lawyer's office, where Mrs Komar's sons and her ex-husband worked, also warned that this choice was made by way of invitations or by friendly lines. Finally, even Prime Minister Borut Pahor then reported to the leadership or agency of the Anti-Corruption Commission because he had clearly estimated that things were going wrong there. And what could we all read in Del on September 6, 2011? Following the establishment of the Agency, its operation sparked a number of disputes in the government coalition, in particular between SD and Zares. Following the departure of Zares from the Government, the party proposed the dissolution of the AUKN and, among other things, justified the politically motivated operation of the AUKN in the event of the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, which was sponsored by the Finance Minister Križanič. On 22 October, also in Del; also the former Minister of the Pahor government, Mitja Gaspari, who was one of the original fathers of the establishment of the agency, was critical to its operation after its establishment. He said: "We have apparently filled the appropriate form of the agency with a lack of human resources and other content. In fact, there are some patterns of influence outside the official routes." And last, from March this year: "The real political godfather of AUKN has finally revealed himself this March on the proposal to change the functioning of AUKN, when only SD members joined the defence party in a single way." In short, the affairs and problems themselves, not what the agency was set up to do. I assess the Minister's poor work, data publishing, truths and half-truths that have been in public, and I believe that I will therefore support the discharge of both members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u41	And Mrs. Janja the Attack. He's quitting. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to dismiss a member of the Board of Directors of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Marko Golob and mag. Danilo Grasic. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 18 of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if it is voted on by the majority of all Members and Members of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u42	I had previously proposed the case of a candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the mayor of one of the Slovenian municipalities. I'm not gonna name her because I don't think that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u43	Mr. Frangež, this is a controversy, I'm sorry, it's not an explanation for the voice, it's a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u44	This is an argument why I will vote for something that clearly points to what wrong practices may be. I do not claim that this is the property of only one party, but I say that we must develop mechanisms in this House to prevent such events from developing accreditation procedures so that the supervisor of the new KBM will not be such a controversial person who takes the $70,000 bribe and then distributes them by a certain key to those who arrange the credit, which will make it impossible for the secretary of the school to be the supervisor of the second largest state bank, and who will prevent the criterion from being the supervisor of our banks, that you are, by chance, a committee of a bank, and above all, that you have a member card of a particular party. Coalition principles must be disabled here. Here we have taken a huge step forward, whether you admit it or not, let us continue with this. In the next session, you will appoint the SDS candidate in the parliamentary elections as the President of the AUKN administration. Complete this administration with your selection of staff and give this agency the opportunity to fully demonstrate what it is capable of. This would be a consistent way, not that we keep changing organizational forms halfway through the road because people don't fit us. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. I suggest you leave. I will vote against the release of Danil Grašić and Mark Golob because they have proved themselves to be credible and agreeable men I want to be at the forefront of this exercise. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u45	We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 9. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. At the turning point of the agenda, I give the floor to a procedural proposal or an explanation to Mr Janko Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u46	A respected choir! In accordance with yesterday's agreement with the Prime Minister of the Government, who consulted all the Presidents of the political parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, if this happens further, I believe that the opposition or the positive Slovenia Group will end the obstruction of action on these two points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-20-SDZ6-Izredna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. With regard to this item of the agenda, I propose that, on the basis of Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the decision on the draft law be postponed to one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. Would you like to speak with the government's representative as the bill's proponent, Minister Šuštersič? No, no, no. Would you like a representative of the parliamentary law, Mr. Möderndorfer? Not at all. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? He says no. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a submission. We will decide on the proposal to postpone consideration and decision on the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. It's 81 votes against no one. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and that the National Assembly will therefore have one of the following meetings to discuss and decide on the proposal for a law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT LAW ON AMENDMENT 148. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, introduction of a golden fiscal rule into the Constitution. With regard to this item on the agenda, I also propose that consideration and decision-making take place at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Commission want a word? No, no, no. A representative of the government? No, no, no. Representatives of parliamentary groups? Not at all. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the submission. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the National Assembly will hold a hearing and decision on the proposal for a law at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. All I'm asking is for you to wait a minute and let me say some things. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to the preparation of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, I inform you that there will be meetings of working bodies following the following schedule: meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth in five minutes' time, this is at 9:40 in room 217, meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and Environment in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič at the same time, 9:40, and meeting of the Management-voluntary in room 212 in 30 minutes, it is 10 a.m. and 5 minutes. At 11:20, Mr Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, will address us, so I ask the President and the President of the working bodies to stop the work and join the Chamber in order to listen to the address if the meeting is not over by then. The 17th meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 12 p.m. Thank you.
