ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. I am starting the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which is likely to be one of the last in this year. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Truda Cinderella, mag. Matthew Tonin and Franz Jursha. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 21 December 2012, by reference to the meeting. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The mandate-holder committee proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 25th extraordinary meeting should be extended by a point of election, namely the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office, Mr Borut Pahor. You received the proposal for enlargement today, 28 December 2012. He might want a word from the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, mag. Sonja Ramshak? He doesn't want to. A representative of the government? Not at all. Representatives of the parliamentary groups may wish to speak? Not at all. I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to a decision on the enlargement of the agenda. Please check for voting devices. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. Are you ready? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as A1. the agenda item, as soon as the agenda is set. This item will also address the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of Members of the National Assembly, mag. Trudy Cinderella. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to A1. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. First of all, it is the determination of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. Since Mr Borut Pahori’s position as President of the Republic of Slovenia, which is incompatible with the management of the Member’s office, ended on 22 December 2012, the State Election Commission sent a statement to the National Assembly that the mandate of the Member had been transferred to Dr Ljubico Jelusic. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the State, which reported in writing to the Assembly. Does the president of the commission want a word? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Not at all. The debate between Members and Members, does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We vote on the following proposal for a decision: Confirm the mandate of Dr Ljubica Jelusic, resident in Sežana, Kazle 56. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. Ambassador's colleague, Dr. Ljubico Jelusic, I invite you to join us in the parliamentary dishes. / applause/ Dear colleague, congratulations and we wish you the success of your post. There's obviously very good energy in your seat, and from there a man can go to be president of the Republic. The following is the conclusion of the termination of the mandate of the Ambassador of the National Assembly of Magi. Trudy Cinderella. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am a member of the Magi. Truda Cinderella notified on 21 December 2012 that she had resigned from her post as Member of Parliament. I note that today, pursuant to Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 202(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, her term of office ends. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate will take over the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 17 of the Elections Act. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Commission of Elections will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report thereon to the National Assembly. Allow me to be on behalf of all of us, fellow mags. I thank Trudy Cinderella for her hard work as a member of the National Assembly and wish her a successful and happy continuation of her path where she will choose to continue. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the above, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any information available to the public on the basis of the information provided by the State, the Commission considers that it is appropriate to consider whether the State budget for the Republic of Slovenia should be considered compatible with the internal market. The proposal for a rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To present the proposal for a rebalancing, I give the floor to Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you for your word! Allow me to start by presenting the proposal for a rebalancing of the Financial Claims Account and the State Budget Financing Account, and perhaps a slightly wider picture of the country's financial operations this year. Let me begin with what is the draft agenda or what the Government is proposing, this is the balance sheet of the Financial Claims Account. This is one of the accounts that make up the state budget or, as we say, one of the balance sheets of the budget. It's a so-called B balance sheet. This balance sheet shows the loans given by the State and the acquisition or resale of the State’s capital shares. The key change that we have proposed this rebalancing is the payment of the so-called conditionally replaceable or Coco bonds to the New Ljubljana Bank in the middle of the year. It was a loan or a bond payment of EUR 320 million. This loan was granted in order to ensure the appropriate capital adequacy of that bank. When the loan was granted, it was still possible to expect that by the end of the year we would be able to obtain a private investor to bring his capital to the bank, allowing the bank to repay the loan to the State or that the State no longer has these contingent-exchange bonds. I'm afraid that didn't happen. I would not now go back to the entire history of these developments with regard to the New Ljubljana Bank. The point is that at the end of June, when these bonds were paid, we were realistically expecting this to be an annual operation, that is to say that it will be a loan that will be repaid by the end of the year, which was the main reason that we did not propose a rebalancing by the end of the year. The second reason was that we had to propose amendments to the Banking Act, which by then did not allow banks to issue contingent-exchange bonds or to classify this as the bank's first-class capital, although this has been possible and widely used by European bank supervisors for some time now during the financial crisis. As it is said, this loan was granted by hand until June of the following year. Since this is an inter-annual operation, we need to properly present the loan in the financial claims account. This loan was financed by spending the funds that the country has already had in bank accounts, according to past years of debt. This means, as we explained at the time, that there was no additional obligation to carry out this operation in order to ensure the capital adequacy of the key system bank in Slovenia. To this extent, we are now showing this in the balance sheet of the State budget financing account as a corresponding reduction in the country's accounts. In addition to the above-mentioned loan to the New Ljubljana Bank of €320 million, there are some minor changes in the financial claims and investments account. It is the Western Guarantee Scheme implemented by the SID Bank and at the beginning of the year it is very difficult to realistically assess how many of these guarantees will be cashed. Then it is the potential recapitalisation of Cimos of EUR 20 million and a few smaller things. Total, these loans or recapitalisations amount to EUR 365 million of additional expenditure in this account, according to the B balance sheet. This is less than one percent of GDP. Compared to 2011, this means that more than half of these recapitalisations, or loans, are expenditure to save the stability of the banking system, as was the case in 2011. In 2011, as you know, these recapitalisations were different companies, not just banks, for about 2% of GDP. Here too, with what is necessary, the government reduces the deficit and reduces these expenses. As far as the statistical statement of the deficit is concerned – according to our understanding, which is also an understanding of the Statistical Office, this loan to the New Ljubljana Bank will in fact be written as a deficit if there is a conversion into a real capital share of the bank. This will happen if the bank's capital falls below 7% and this will be found in some formal procedure, which cannot happen before next year. Why did we, as the Government, decide to propose a rebalancing of only one or two national budget balances rather than the entire state budget? Because in that balance sheet, which was also crucial in terms of setting our targets, this is what is said in Balance A of the revenue and expenditure accounts of the state budget, we have been doing what has been determined with the rebalancing. And I would like to stress this in particular because when we proposed a rebalancing when we adopted it in the National Assembly, when we adopted the State Budget Rebalancing Act and the Public Finances Act itself, we found that, over the course of the year, we would have to provide around 120 million additional wage allocations, because the agreed reduction in public sector salaries was not what the Government proposed and, as was taken into account in the rebalancing, we were immediately given a whole range of questions when we would propose a rebalancing and when we would recognise that the deficit would be indeed greater. We didn't have to do that. Over the course of the year, we have provided with reallocations and savings on other state budget items of this 120 additional million to pay this year's salaries. Even though we have ensured this, our assessment is that expenditure for 72 million will be lower than those allowed by the balance sheet, and here I am talking about expenditure on so-called integral funds, that is to say those expenditure that actually means expenditure on the budget, financing with domestic taxes and other revenue on the budget. This is said not only to respect the ceiling on expenditure set by the rebalancing, we will spend 72 million less, even though we have provided an additional 120 million for wages, which means that we have saved so much more for the other expenditure of the country and for the current operation. In addition to what I have already mentioned, we have also been able to ensure this by estimates, which are still estimates, because it is not the end of the year that we will spend 65 million more European funds than was envisaged. Together, these two means that, according to our estimate, the 13 million funds spent will be less than the balance allowed to the state or government. At the same time, we estimate that there will be a shortfall in the revenue of the state budget of around €51 million – €51 million mainly due to a poorer economic situation than was foreseen when we adopted the balance sheet, and this affects, as you know, tax revenues. The difference between 51 million less revenue and 13 million less expenditure is 38 million additional deficits in the A balance sheet of the budget. The law on the implementation of the budget allows the Government itself to increase its debt for the additional deficit in the A balance sheet to 70 million. We used this power about half, 38 million is about half of 70. If I say otherwise, this is a tenth of the estimated gross domestic product, which means that that goal, which we have also made publicly, when we have proposed a rebalancing that the country's budget deficit will not exceed 3% of the gross domestic product, we will achieve virtually very precisely. This deficit will be 3.1% of gross domestic product. As it is said, the B balance sheet, in particular this loan to Nova Ljubljanska Banka, will affect the calculation of the deficit if there is a conversion of this to the country's capital share. Let me get this. The state's been doing business very carefully. It has done business in line with the balance taken, despite the fact that we are in crisis times, despite the rapid adoption of the rebalancing, under pressure that something has to be done, that it has been based on a whole set of legislative changes that have been determined in particular by the Public Finance Balance Act and their effects have been very difficult to assess in advance. With the proper management of budgetary expenditure, we have ensured over the course of the year that we have not exceeded the deficit allowed and that we have not exceeded the expenditure allowed. As we say, we have even improved some of their structure, spent more European resources and fewer domestic resources. In doing so, we were able to ensure the urgent recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, including in the way it was first used in Slovenia, so that banking legislation had to be amended accordingly, and all the solutions involved, including the issue of the public financial presentation of these matters, had to be resolved accordingly. Over the course of the year, we have explained this; today we are proposing a way of harmonising these two balance sheets or state budget sub-beneficiaries, so that these expenditure that were necessary during the year, which would otherwise, if not decided, endanger the serious stability of the banking system, recognise, properly record, and this is what we are proposing today: while prudent and operating within the framework set out, correction B of the budget balance on the basis of the already executed recapitalisation with the hybrid loan to the New Ljubljana Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a rebalancing was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as already mentioned, held its 44th emergency meeting yesterday, December 27th, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a rebalancing of the Financial Claims and Investment Account and the Funding Account for the State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. The Minister of Finance gave the introductory explanation. He said that the total balance sheet A, B, C was not needed as the consumption was reduced by 13 million and the additional 72 million resources were reduced in the domestic use of the funds. At the same time, 65 million more European funds were drawn. He further presented the proposal for a rebalancing of the Financial Claims and Investment Account and the Financing Account, stressing the most important items. The largest item relates to the payment of so-called Coco bonds or loans to the New Ljubljana Bank for EUR 320 million. Furthermore, EUR 20 million is earmarked for the recapitalisation of Cimos, EUR 2.8 million for the Enterprise Fund and EUR half million for loans to Greece. All funds total around 1% of the gross social product. In the debate on the tabled balance, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that spending would be higher than foreseen for 2012 by 1% of GDP, and that this meant a rebalancing. They also considered that this rebalancing was not appropriate, that it was too late and that it was trying to establish a legal basis for the decisions already taken. They expect the Court of Auditors to have an opinion on this. The question was raised as to the role of Belgian owners in the loan to Nova Ljubljanska Bank. The following members supported the planned recapitalisation of Cimos from both opposition and coalition types. Members of the Coalition Group Committee said that the balance sheet was needed due to technical corrections to balance sheet B and C and expressed satisfaction that the Government remained within the framework of the already adopted balance sheet for 2012. At the end of the discussion, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance explained that this time it was a two-account rebalancing and that it was actually a technical manoeuvre. He said that, with regard to the legal basis for additional resources which were not foreseen by the rebalancing, Article 41 of the Public Finance Act allows the Government to redistribute funds up to EUR 70 million. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Members of the National Gazette will support the draft amendments to the B and C budgets. These are minor technical changes that have somehow been expected. In doing so, I would like to point out that we are pleased that we have managed to reverse the course of events and that the financial situation in Slovenia has begun to improve with the arrival of the new government. The first task of all Members was to adopt the budget rebalancing and we know how difficult it was, and then to adopt the so-called ZUJF, when we had to correct 38 laws to ensure that there were also legal grounds for reductions in the balance. All this time, I was wondering if what we planned would come true this year. I am pleased to see that we have finally spent 13 million euros less than anticipated by the rebalancing to receive 50 million euros less revenue, and the difference of 38 million euros has emerged, which, in view of the adoption of the 2012 Budget Implementation Act, could be covered by additional borrowing of these 38 million euros. It is essential in all this that this concrete change, which we now have to recognise in the B balance sheet, is accompanied by these 320 million euros, an additional 20 for Cimos, and a few more million for increased spending on commitments under guarantees in the country, and I do not see any problem here. The bottom line is that our trend between income and expenditure has managed to stop, but it's still too big. However, we have also accepted some other things that have shown and give us a completely different credibility in the eyes of global banking and financial circles, which has also proved to be towards the end of the year, when the required returns for our obligations, which – just yesterday I heard the latest data – have reached a minimum level of 5,11% and we are already approaching a level that is normal and where credit can still be obtained. In addition to other laws, the long-term elimination of resources to create these major negative differences in our budget is important. I usually mentioned three or five large outflows that were coming and that brought us into this situation. One is our big mistake, where I will always point out that the underlying error was caused by a central bank that allowed loans to be granted with bonds or shares. We've done a lot of damage here, and we're going to have to cover these claims for a long time. We threw about a billion euros out of banks every year through a window. We have really committed ourselves to banking markets in Europe, we have spent so much money, we have actually reduced the budget gap by about a billion, and then the expected profitability of our companies, I hope, will change completely in the second year. I am talking about these three laws, which we have adopted in some way and will finally come into force, this is a bad bank law that will prevent further action in this way and will allow banks to start again dealing with lending the economy and not only with the bad claims that the state will in some way take over and allow them to be used differently and thus help businesses. There will be a need for lower additional recapitalisations for banks, no more write-offs of these bad claims. I hope that more successful business will be ensured in state-owned companies, where we have seen poor results, mainly due to the negative results of the banking system itself. In short, a whole series of things, and last but not least, the Constitutional Court judgment and the withdrawal of the referendum initiative at ZIPRO have put Slovenia in a completely different place, for all citizens much more optimistic, the situation for the following years and, of course, it is much easier to talk about what we will be doing in the coming years. We have a lot of work to do, and this observation to our budgets is always the same, that too little money is spent on investments and incentives to the economy. It is true that little money is spent on this, but it is primarily that we do not make new commitments, that we do not impose new increases in public debt, that we reduce in some way the price of these debts. If this is achieved, it is possible to invest more in new investments, new programmes and so on. For once, this is the first phase, which will allow the country to become more involved in cooperation with the economy in future stages, and this will also lead to a better situation. The biggest problem is that it is not possible or we do not have some start-up in creating new jobs. In fact, some important steps will have to be taken to create more jobs, and unfortunately this is always the same. Public spending must be lower, taxes must be lower, interest must be lower, credits must be normally available, at normal prices, and this is what will attract foreign investors, which will encourage domestic companies and, last but not least, affect that we will be able to start again, especially young people, because it is too bad that they are leaving our country. We're on the right track, and I'm glad we made it. I would congratulate all of us on being able to make so much wise thinking and conclusions that lead us in the right direction that we have interrupted a destructive debate on financial issues in this National Assembly and elsewhere, and I hope that we will continue to do so in the coming years. Once again, in the National Gazette, we will support this minimum change and hope that this trend, which we have set with public finances this year, will continue to be followed by the following years, and that the time will come when our competitiveness will improve, our economy will improve and that the number of unemployed in our country will be 117 thousand, and an increase will begin to decline, because then it will be easier for everyone. I know that these things should not be necessary, I have warned very loudly a year ago, for example, when we adopted 22,6%, we increased the minimum wage during the crisis, there 2008, 2009, because I saw on my own back what this means for businesses and what this means for the state budget, because all these taxes and spending from the state budget based on these things have increased. It's just one thing, and then I said it would bring at least 40,000 to 50,000 job losses in one way or another. And that's what happened. These jobs will be very difficult to get back. However, it is right, as we have seen in Cimos, that the country, as far as it can and as far as it can, does not want too much, simply prevent unnecessary large-scale bankruptcy and greater closure of firms in difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, esteemed colleagues, good afternoon! Today, it is likely that the biggest debate will revolve around whether this proposal is a classic budget rebalancing or just a certain part. After all, it is not that important, especially given that only a few adjustments are made to the current situation. It is not negligible that we have adopted the current budget rebalancing in early May, and it is perfectly normal at this time that some extraordinary events have also occurred since then. They were not so high as to require a rebalancing of the entire budget, as they are derogations within the limits allowed, so today we are only correcting the accounts of financial claims and investments and the budget financing account. If I start with those smaller amounts, the poor half-million euro we still owe to Greece in view of the commitment made in 2010, we need an additional 25 million euros to pay our obligations under the state guarantee scheme. At this point, we recall that in the previous mandate, we have warned many that State guarantees for commercial loans are less effective without certain safeguards that would encourage these banks to recover claims and not so much to fully passively use the right to repurchase the State guarantee. The fact is that neither the Government nor the Members have any influence on this item. Credits granted under this legislation all have a certain degree of risk to be ultimately covered by the State. We can only hope that this will be as little as possible. In achieving this goal, what we have been repeating for the past year is that over-indebted and poorly liquid companies can only solve the burden, a more favourable business environment, so that the entry of strategic partners with fresh capital is not even mentioned. In any event, only state guarantees under the guarantee scheme are not sufficient. Here is the legal basis for the possible recapitalisation of Cimos. It is true that the state recapitalisations have already burned several times. Not just in the banks, we'll remember Elan and Adria lately. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that we have learned at least something from the past, especially that in the future we will also have to look at what the recapitalisation money is intended for, but not that the newly recapitalised firm is in the same critical financial situation as it was before the recapitalisation. That is why the talks about Cimos took place for so long. However, it is important to note that the immediate sale of a State share would be virtually impossible or that the situation for such a transaction from a financial point of view is extremely unfavourable. And if sales are not smart, then the country, as a responsible active owner in a company with proven potential, not only for survival, but also for further growth and development, must make the only logical move and participate in providing fresh bridging resources. Therefore, we support this recapitalisation in the Slovenian People's Party, not only because of the 3 000 employees directly and directly, although the social aspect is very important here, but we also look forward to a real recovery of this company and thus to a concrete increase in the value of the country's share in the company. The additional €2.8 million to the Ministry of the Economy to implement financial support measures for businesses by means of financial engineering instruments, or simply put, we want to increase access to money for micro and small enterprises. You do not want these companies to become the bearer of the Slovenian economy in the future, so we welcome the efforts of the competent ministry to raise funds for small businesses at all ends and places. In the case of current unemployment and the financial crisis, such an incentive is crucial. Finally, we are left with that essential part of the changes considered, a loan from the state of Nova Ljubljanski Bank amounting to EUR 320 million for the payments of the so-called Coco bonds. Although there has been a lot of ink around this spill, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, all too little is presented in the broader aspect of the whole story. As is already known to the general public, at the beginning of this year we all knew that some banks have problems. We all underestimated these problems together, and the moment of truth came at the end of June. At that time, the deadline for which the European Banking Agency requested a minimum of 9% capital adequacy for systemicly important banks in the country expired. Let us recall that at that time a very active approach was made to the search for a strategic private investor or at least a co-investor, and in any way we have tried to avoid a new payment of state money to our largest bank. Unfortunately, the agreement was concluded with the second largest owner of the KBC, it failed just before the present, and the minister and the coalition had to find a solution in a few hours. Today we can reopen the debate whether the move was right or wrong. But I strongly reject the claims that the responsibility for the NLB situation is solely in the current coalition. We all know a lot about the huge loans that NLB has made in the wake of a flood of liquidity in the financial markets prior to the crisis. That was irresponsible. Many approvals were even outside all business practices and risk assessments. But when the crisis came, someone should also deal with the bank — and it is not. For once, we have invested the new EUR 400 million, and that was it. While other countries have actively intervened in their banking systems, the situation has only deteriorated during the crisis. It is therefore unfair to accuse the current coalition of making CoCo bonds exactly the opposite of what it promised, at least in this place, if not even double-faced, because in just a few months this bank could not be recovered, at least not to this extent that it would be of interest to any of the serious investors. Now we can blame ourselves on everything on average, and that's why the NLB hole won't be any smaller. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we expect the investigating and judicial authorities to do something about finding responsible culprits for this situation, while it is the task of our politicians to solve what they can. With the implementation of the Banks Financial Stability Act, we now have a legal basis. Personally, I find it interesting the contradiction of the biggest critics of this move, namely the CoCo bond payment. Let's make up your mind. You want us to recapitalize the bank, but don't you? Because if there is really a mandatory conversion into equity in 2013 – otherwise, we still hope that the sky will happen – then this will become a classic recapitalisation. So exactly what part of the opposition has been demanding loudly all the time is wrong again. To conclude, in view of the situation in the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased with the implementation of the consolidation of the budget and all of today's changes seem perfectly logical and even justified. With a very ambitious objective of a major reduction of the budget deficit, we have come very close. We heard yesterday that this is not a success, but a duty. All right. It was probably much easier to talk about this sometimes when the state cash register was full, or you simply owed two, three billion euros. Today, when these happinesses or opportunities, thank God, we no longer have a challenge, the challenge is so much greater. We will, of course, support the proposed changes to the budget balance group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u9	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a warm welcome to all present! There has been a lot of talk about the matter that we are dealing with, so I will read the brief position of our Group. We are considering the proposal for a rebalancing of the Financial Claims and Investment Account and the 2012 State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a proposal for the B balance sheet of the budget, which represents a mere harmonisation. In order to ensure the stability of the banking system, the State carried out a recapitalisation of NLB in June, as well as some other measures in support of the economy and international obligations which were not fully foreseen in the budget rebalancing this year. The Ministry has recapitalised NLB with a loan that is still in the bank. Since no private investor was found, it should now be shown in the Financial Claims and Investment Account. According to the Minister of Finance, this will not increase the difference between budgetary expenditure and revenue. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the opposition's statement that the money given by the State in the form of a loan by NLB has been written off does not hold back because if a private investor is found early enough, they will get it back, otherwise the ownership share that the Government will also be able to sell in time. Otherwise, a total of EUR 402.2 million, or an additional EUR 348.5 million, is earmarked for loans this year in the Financial Claims and Investment Account Proposal. This amount, as has already been said, includes EUR 320 million of NLB loans for the payment of convertible instruments or so-called Coco bonds, plus EUR 478 000 for the fifth tranche of loans to Greece and EUR 2.8 million for loans to public funds for financial instruments, to encourage entrepreneurship and EUR 25.2 million for the implementation of the country's guarantee obligations under the Guarantee Scheme Act. A total of EUR 161 million or EUR 20,5 million is planned for capital investments and investments as planned with the balance sheet adopted this year. On the one hand, EUR 20.7 million is foreseen to maintain or increase the value of the State’s assets by recapitalisation of companies, the recapitalisation of Cimos is envisaged, and at the same time a capital report to the US Development Bank will not be implemented. The country must be drawn forward and we will support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u11	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! In these last December days, when the mood of the people also creates the density of holidays, traditionally family and state, several decisions have been made for the Republic of Slovenia, which could be a tectonic shift in the realization of the efforts to get out of the crisis, including a shift in the urgent process of changing our thinking that would offer the right answers for the modern society of the 21st century and for a completely new economic order, which must be based on the idea of a common good. In December, the most prominent institutions of the Republic of Slovenia sent extremely positive messages to the Slovenian public, as well as to the European public and the financial market, with their decisions. In New Slovenia we welcome these decisions, we are convinced that they are good for Slovenia and we can be pleased. In my mind, however, I do not just have the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of important decisions taken, including by the votes of the opposition, which is also an important message. I also have in mind all those citizens and citizens who voluntarily realize traditional Slovenian values, such as compassion, solidarity and assistance to people in distress. In the area of solidarity and assistance to others, Slovenia has shown its broad heart in various ways in recent days. Therefore, the National Assembly must offer recognition and thanks to all the organizers of the gathering of assistance to people in distress. In New Slovenia, we want this Slovenian spirit of solidarity to be preserved so that, on the one hand, the country, with its budget and its citizens can, on the other hand, together, help those who really need help. This is how we see the social state in the broadest sense. We also want to make this very clear and send another important message from our last meeting of the National Assembly this year. This is that we have not exceeded the budgetary framework set out by the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia, which was the first major project of this coalition or government. Although we have significantly burdened the economy by reducing income tax and by increasing tax incentives to invest in research and development, on the other hand, by reducing consumption, we have achieved and proved that the 2012 rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia's 2012 budget has been realistic and achievable, now the goal has been achieved. Although some wrote and drew black fiscal scenarios for the end of 2012. While we have no reason for euphoria, we are still spending 1 billion euros more than we are producing. I can commend the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, but here I must express my thanks mainly to citizens and citizens who understandably bear the burden of the current crisis, which is a harsh one, and this means, for a longer period, a contribution to the balanced budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is our goal for 2015. At the time of its term of office in February this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia faced deteriorating forecasts in gross domestic product growth estimates. Such forecasts have also been accompanied by an increase in the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia over the past years and a deterioration in the conditions of indebtedness in international and domestic financial markets. An excessive budget deficit control procedure has also been introduced by the European Commission. The Republic of Slovenia was obliged to reduce the general government deficit by 2013 to below 3 % of gross domestic product. The first measure in 2012 was the adoption of a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is expected to reduce the deficit of the State budget in 2012 to 3% of gross domestic product. In order to achieve that objective, the overall volume of budgetary expenditure had to be reduced by the 2012 State budget rebalancing. To this end, the Public Finance Balance Act has been adopted, but not only has it reduced public expenditure but it provides some measures to increase budgetary revenue. At the end of the financial year in Nova Slovenija, we are pleased to note that austerity measures have been taken, as well as measures to increase public finances, with a view to achieving the intended objective. According to the 2012 budget balance, the government deficit is maintained at a rate of 3 % of gross domestic product. The aim of public financial policy is therefore the right one and must be continued and maintained on this path. This path will be steep and leads to the desired goal of stabilising public finances. For the next two years, the budget already adopted foresees a government deficit of less than 3% of GDP or more precisely for 2013 of 2.8% and for 2014 of 2.5% of GDP. The long-term objective is to fully balance public finances. This is essential in particular in terms of ensuring a stable and sustainable domestic macroeconomic environment, as well as in terms of accepted requirements at European Union level. Today's proposal for the balance sheet B and C of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 is, we can say, of a technical nature. The proposal for a rebalancing The financial claims and investments accounts and the financing of this year's state budget increase the amount of loans given in 2012 by EUR 348.5 million. This amount includes EUR 320 million of NLB loans paid for convertible instruments or so-called Coco bonds. In addition, the liabilities of the fifth tranche of loans to Greece, loans to public funds for financial instruments to promote entrepreneurship and the implementation of State guarantee obligations under the Guarantee Scheme Act. In order to ensure the coverage of these additional obligations, no new debt is foreseen. The state of assets in accounts will be reduced to EUR 364 million, which is based on the country's indebtedness over the past years and has not yet been used. It is therefore essential that the total amount of revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2012 does not change with this mini-rebalancing. And once again, this is the achievement of all citizens and citizens of this country who are willing to bear the burden of the crisis with good will. And I'm closing with a forecast. In the New Slovenia Group, we announce support for the Proposal for a Balance Sheet Financial Claims and Investment Account and the Funding Account for the State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Your Honor! Yesterday for the first time, and today the second time from the Minister of Finance, I heard that we could be happy that we were doing business in line with the balance we had adopted. So far, I have come to understand that this is the duty of every minister and every government and not luck if anything succeeds. "It will not be necessary to come to the National Assembly with a new budget rebalancing for this year, although many pessimists have predicted it." The words of Janez Janša, December 14th this year. Today, if you take a good look at the state budget balance for 2012 adopted by the Government on 12 December. On December 14, we received him to the National Assembly. And on the same day, our President of the Government is talking about the fact that there will be no rebalancing. Does anyone else understand that? Our Prime Minister, Janez Janša, also said on the same day that Slovenia will, for the first time since the start of the crisis, achieve, to a large extent or almost entirely, the public financial objective it has announced with its strategic documents or budget. In April this year, the government announced in the stability programme that this year the country's sector deficit under ESA 95 will amount to 3.5% of GDP. At the end of October this year, our country, in its deficit and debt report, has indicated that this year's deficit in the country's sector under the same ESA 95 methodology will amount to 4.2% of GDP or 20% more than you announced in our strategic documents. 20%! This should mean that, to a large extent or almost entirely, we will achieve the public financial objective announced by Slovenia in its strategic documents. Can anyone else understand that? However, if it is necessary to convert these so-called Coco bonds into capital this year, you will generate deficits for an additional percentage of GDP, which means that our basic target of 3.5% of GDP – this is a deficit – will exceed 50%. But as you like to say at the Ministry of Finance, time will show what will happen or come true in the end, and very soon. In Positive Slovenia, we are still aware that the situation in our public finances is serious and we always say that. We are also aware that saving is also necessary. We never denied it either. But we're certainly not for the way you've handled it. What you're doing with our country today is no longer saving, it's destruction. We also tell you this over and over and over and over again. Your way of solving the crisis only leads us further down. Economic activity is lower from month to month, unemployment is increasing, and people’s discontent is increased every day. Where are you going to lead our country to find out you're not on the right track? When we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act in June, we asked a number of questions in Positive Slovenia and warned about many things. I don't know, I can't talk about it, I don't know, because it's temporary solutions, I can't talk about this data. At that time, when we passed a law that allowed us to deal with Coco bonds, we did not get a clear picture. However, anyone who knows at least a little about public finances and the laws governing this area should have, or it was clear that prior to the signing of the CoCo bond purchase contract, this should be provided for in the State budget. It wasn't. Moreover, on the question whether the Government will propose a rebalancing because of this deal, we have heard the strong response of Dr Krusca, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, that there will be no impact on the budget when this bond is issued. And what are we doing today? We are doing exactly that, with the impact of the Coco bond issue on the budget. It is clearly an influence of almost one percent of the gross domestic product. 3.3% of the total budget, 320 million euros has this impact on the budget. Now you've finally come to realize it, and so have you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe you know that this rebalancing should have been adopted before the Minister signed the bond purchase contract. Yesterday we could hear on the board that we had to do business practically overnight. Why? It is only the Minister who, just the day before the signing of this bond purchase agreement, has ensured that another strategic partner will pay this part. The fact is that this balance sheet should be accepted before the CoCo bond purchase contract was signed, and the fact is that the Minister broke the law when he signed the contract because there was no funds available for purchase in the state budget. Does the minister realize he broke the law? I don't know. But I do know that, as Minister, he has sworn to respect the constitutional and legal order of our country. What a minister who violates the rule of law of our country should do is probably not to be interpreted. It is also somewhat unusual that the national budget balance should be adopted three days before the end of the year, at the end of the financial year. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to know what we'd do if this rebalancing wasn't adopted by chance today. That'd be interesting to see. However, there is something interesting about this rebalancing – as of today, the obvious balance of the state budget can be worked out in parts, "per partes". We choose the part that needs to be changed, we complete it, and we change it, and we only send that part to the National Assembly. Perfect news, new parliamentary practice: budget per piece! Today we have the so-called balance sheet B and C. Balance A, the most extensive one, we have to do ourselves. Although the purchase of bonds also affects the A balance sheet, if so, as the Minister said yesterday, that the State budget also receives interest from this business. Where's the interest income? You won't believe it in balance sheet A. But obviously you explain a lot of things in your own way and in many ways you introduce a new parliamentary practice, which will also apply to all the following references and governments. And there's something else that needs to be highlighted. At the same time, with the balance, we have also received a notice in the National Assembly that our country will be in debt for 38 million euros more than is foreseen. I'm not going to talk again about how this government of borrowing is supposed to end. But the fact is, you should have seen this 38 million in the balance if you've done it before. Indeed, the law on the implementation of the budget makes it possible for the Government to make an additional charge of EUR 70 million, without a balance, if this is not being prepared. But if you have prepared a rebalancing process, you should include this 38 million in the balance sheet and provide us with such a complete representation in the National Assembly. On the same day, we received a rebalance and notice of additional debt in Parliament. Here we are again, budget per part or budget per partes. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support this balance in Positive Slovenia. But today you will confirm the balance that will somehow legalize what the minister has done wrong. Even if it was necessary, even if the crisis is, even if, the Constitution and laws in our country still need to be respected, as this still applies to all [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u15	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are looking at the partial balance sheet of the so-called B balance sheet budget and this represents an account for the financing of claims and investments and this is nothing unusual. As we know, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is made up of three balance sheets and if there are no such changes in other balance sheets or in balance sheet A that a balance should be made, then this is simply not necessary. We know, as we have all been informed, that 70 million changes can be made by the Government itself. However, this balance sheet, as has already been said today, relates to 320 million loans. This is a conditional replacement of the so-called Coco bonds with which the New Ljubljana Bank is to be recapitalised. This is supposed to give Nova Ljubljanska Bank first-class capital in the event that its capital adequacy is reduced below a certain limit – I think it is 7%. This means that in such a case there will be a change in the loan to the equity share, and this will make Nova Ljubljanska Bank appropriate capital adequacy. In addition, the amount of guarantees, in particular those received by the SID Bank, is also subject to this balance sheet or the B balance sheet of the budget. We are also talking about the recapitalisation of Cimosa, which I think both the opposition and the coalition agree on, and this change is intended to encourage entrepreneurship through this budget rebalancing, as certain loans are intended for the Public Enterprise Fund. All together, it represents about 1% of the gross social product, the potential liabilities of the state budget. On the one hand, we can say that this is large, and on the other hand we can find that it is still only 1%, or around €360,370 million, depending on the overall budget and the total amount. In short, it is a potential commitment of the state. The essence of this budget is that balance sheet A does not change, that part of the state budget that speaks or relates to the revenue and expenditure of that country does not change. In other words, this means that planning was relatively accurate in May when the budget rebalancing made by the previous government was adopted. Secondly, according to the indicators and the indicators relating to the reduced public deficit, the financial situation of the State has improved. Here I must join those who say that it is the people who have accepted the fact that the expenditure or expenditure of the budget has decreased and that this also reduces some of the rights or certain benefits that people have actually received. I believe that people understand the difficult financial situation in which the country is. Today, we can say that the country is in a better financial situation than it was six months ago or one year ago. Finally, a deficit of 3,1 % of the gross social product is being reduced. In other words, this means that the policy "consuming can only be as much as you actually create" is right and that this policy will also have to be counted on in the future, especially in the 2013 and 2014 budgets. After all, this is one of the elements by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia came to this National Assembly. The second element, which is also important, is the rehabilitation of the banking system and I think that this recovery will actually start in 2013. It will also begin because there will be a special law for the rehabilitation of banks with which the banking system can be rehabilitated. Here, in my profound belief, it will not be any sale or divestment of any shares held by banks, in fact, it will be the fact that banks will in some way shake off bad claims and instead of these bad claims receive bonds with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which means a much better investment for them – we can also talk about first-class investment – which means that the additional money for recapitalisation means that this money can be earmarked for additional lending. Whether someone wants to accept this fact or not, this is a real mechanism by which the banking system will be repaired, which is part of the government's concept to get the country out of the crisis. This can talk about evaluation and so on, but it will eventually be under the control of the European Commission, so there are some changes that some irregularities cannot occur. In fact, it will also be determined how valuable state banks are. State banks are worth as much as they can sell, and we'll probably be some, or you'll be surprised at the value of state banks if we're talking about having a buyer on one side and the seller on the other. In fact, it is part of the budget or part of the whole policy, which means that the country will come out of the crisis, including better asset management, because it is known on the balance sheets or on the country's budget. The current asset management was certainly not satisfactory. It was not satisfactory to find out how much dividends the country had received from its own property, from the companies it had. And if we can figure that out, then we can see that state property is being mismanaged. I believe that the change in legislation in this area will contribute to better asset management and will also lead to better returns. However, the budget, which means real spending, has an impact on the ratings given by some foreign financial organisations in Slovenia, Slovenian banks and Slovenian state-owned companies. This means that the state will make it easier to recover existing debts with new debts, it is said that the possible debt in foreign markets will be cheaper or that they will have those most obsolescence bonds of the country, the 10-year bond, the lower interest rate, which affects the lower price of the money at which we will be indebted. These three segments, which also appear financially in the country's budget, are not all. After all, we can also talk here about the much better conditions that entrepreneurs today have and already have in the market. These conditions are reflected in some of the lower taxes that will be shown mainly at the end of the year when the balance sheets are made and profits in individual companies will be determined. For small entrepreneurs and small businesses, flat-rate taxation is what should encourage them to create more and to expand and generate more revenue on the market. Certainly, however, we cannot be satisfied with perfection. After all, the forecasts made by Umar and other organisations, including the European and the International Monetary Fund, remain negative. However, these measures are in both financial, banking and management areas that will change negative forecasts in positive forecasts. I strongly hope and also wish that this will happen in the second half of 2013, it is said that we will come into positive economic growth from negative economic growth, which means that we will be more competitive, that we will create greater added value and, of course, that we will also work more. Given that we believe and already show that these are the real steps that still need to be taken in full, we will support this budget balance in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u17	And on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the Group, we point out that achieving a balance between public finances and excessive savings without economic growth is reflected in the harmful consequences, particularly in the way we face job losses and economic contractions. For this reason, the Social Democrats have always warned that the problem in Slovenia is the over-indebtedness of the economy and over-indebted loans from banks that have not been followed by deposits from businesses and natural persons or by the recapitalisation of the state, if there is not enough. Unfortunately, we note that the government only reacts when it is in a hopeless situation. The balance of the budget that we are considering today is also such. Otherwise, we welcome the decision to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank with 320m euros and to provide 20m euros for the recapitalisation of Cimos. However, the proposed second balance of the 2012 budget indicates that the Minister of Finance was forced to propose a second balance of the budget due to events he did not wish to notice earlier, but is now legally forced to do so. The issue of CoCo bonds and the recapitalisation of Cimosa indicate that funds had to be provided in the budget before the events took place. I reiterate that we welcome and correct the provision of EUR 20 million for the recapitalisation of Cimos. The Court of Auditors will deliver its opinion on the accounting of CoCo bonds in the final accounts for 2012. The Minister of Finance still seems to think that the loan to the New Ljubljana Bank of €320 million will be returned to the budget. However, the fact is that it is likely or much more likely that 320 million euros will turn into the capital of the bank, which in 2013 will mean an increase in the country's deficit of 320 million euros. And that's just because the minister didn't want to make a direct recapitalisation of the bank in the first half of 2012. We see the reasons for such behaviour, not least in the human resources policy of banks. On the contrary, Nova Ljubljanska Banka has convened a 20th meeting of shareholders, where two alternate members have been elected to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, both coming from abroad, one from France and a lady from Norway. It is common to all these candidates to come with experiences which they have mainly as investment bankers. So it's about the experience of selling banks. This is something that we are extremely concerned about in the Group of Social Democrats. We cannot explain otherwise why the Government is proposing to the supervisory council of foreigners who can act in the interests of mainly foreign owners, from whom they come to our banks, but not in the interests of the State or Government and the National Assembly, if you want, who should decide in a different way than it did in our country. And if we add that, at the time of the appointment of new representatives from abroad, the National Assembly has not yet completed the procedure for the appointment of a new CEO of the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments, it only indicates that there has been a silent attempt to avoid responsibilities in a manner where the National Assembly has not appointed in due time the perpetrator of the Agency's duties, who may have had voting rights in the matter of whether a foreign is appointed to the Supervisory Board or not. The fact is that if the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank occurs, we will lose our information base in our economy and it will be available to all those who will want to open up the market in Slovenia or to win the market that our companies have abroad. We would therefore like to reiterate that it would be more appropriate for us to talk today about whether we need our national bank to recapitalise at least one billion euro and thus conclude the debate on whether we need our system bank or whether we need our national bank, or whether we will still be in uncertainty about who will manage the assets that our savers and businesses in these banks have in the future. While we are talking about this billion, it is still necessary to say it peacefully once again, and I am pleased that some parliamentary groups have already found that the banking system at the time of exceptional economic growth was not exactly consistent with the principles of banking. Indeed, loans to the non-bank sector increased from 12.8 billion to 33 billion between 2004 and 2008. At the same time, these loans were not followed by deposits. In 2004, these were still 14.7 billion, which is still 1.9 billion more than the loans, and in 2008 these deposits were only 20.6 billion more. This led to a 15 billion-dollar debt increase in the banking system during this period. The measures followed by the previous government have reduced the indebtedness of banks, mainly abroad, by €4 billion. So in 2011, the next situation was, the debt was still 33 billion, and deposits or deposits amounted to EUR 24.2 billion, so the difference between loans and deposits was reduced by EUR 4 billion to EUR 8.8 billion. This trend should continue in this mandate, but unfortunately we do not meet these trends and recapitalise banks only and within the limits, as much as is necessary to ensure international banking rules. In addition to inefficient bank resolution – which will certainly not be successfully implemented through a bad bank – the bad bank will, we have to say it out loud again, make it possible to resell private companies in particular, and in no way will it fix the banking system and not save our over-indebted companies. That is why we believe that the government should set other goals. The goals she has set are also visible through the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding. There has a priority of denationalisation in one billion euros, and if today we make a comparison of whether we really need to in a year, two finalisations of denationalisation in the amount of one billion euros, whether it is better to recapitalise the bank and enable economic growth and gradually solve the denationalisation problem later. This is a question that has not yet been addressed in this mandate or as it is now, in our view, inappropriate because we want to give priority to the rehabilitation of banks and the economy, and then to resolve these obligations in the process of denationalisation. And when we talk about what is simpler or cheaper this moment in the economy, whether it is to let businesses go bankrupt or recapitalise – I think that now, and earlier this year, the data clearly show that bankruptcy is significantly more expensive for all of us than the recapitalisation of businesses. It is not only a financial impact if the company goes bankrupt, but mainly an extremely serious consequence for all employees and those who lose their jobs and face the problem of the labour market, because they can find that jobs are shrinking. Many of those who have worked successfully in companies today have a problem of ensuring their social security. In addition to the financial aspect, bankruptcy is extremely cruel to those who worked in these companies and wanted to create their future with their work. That is why, in the previous mandate, we have helped the social democrats with € 1.6 billion in subsidies to the economy, thereby preserving a number of jobs and reducing the trauma we are experiencing today in Slovenia. Even in these situations in which we are, the Social Democrats propose that it be necessary to set up a restructuring fund for businesses in order to recapitalise businesses. And if, in the previous mandate, we were solving two regions that had an average unemployment rate, that was Pomurje and Pokolpje, which includes Bela Krajina and Kočevska, the government has taken concrete measures; the law in the case of Pomurje and through the Law on Harmonised Regional Development, including the Pokolpija programme to promote economic growth, accelerate the construction of infrastructure and thus solve this problem. Unfortunately, these two regions are joining several other areas this year, including those that have not previously met with the unemployment rate and the decline in economic growth. This is mainly the Primorska area, which has lost a lot by bankrupting both the construction company Primorje and Zidarje, and these are problems that could be very quickly uncontrollable for this region if this rebalancing did not recapitalise with 20 million Cimos. However, the damage to this environment has already been affected, and we add a warning coming from Radeč. In this Posav municipality, 12% of unemployment per night was created by 19% of unemployment, and this area also joined Pomurje and if you want Kočevski. These are the data that are worrying and cannot be attached to the coalition's findings that they are satisfied with how the 2012 budget is being implemented. This is this weakness, which I have already pointed out in the introduction, the government has simply set itself too low targets for economic growth and the biggest problem is that it actually achieves these objectives. Therefore, we believe that the government's rapid and large-scale austerity strategy should also be seen as a bad way of doing things, because it is over-saving and it would be more appropriate, however, that it is not enough that we are liked only by the European Commission and capital owners and the financial market, that economic growth should also be pursued. In particular, the so-called ratings will not only go up because we are reducing the deficit, but we will be getting worse if we do not adequately ensure the recovery of the economy as the largest guarantee of stability for the current existence and further development of each country. With regard to the measures we face in this rebalancing, I can reiterate once again the recapitalisation that we believe will also have to take place in the New Bank of Ljubljana, as well as the recapitalisation of Cimosa, but unfortunately we cannot support this proposal for a budget rebalancing, because it is a legalisation of the facts that have been carried out, and we believe that this is, however, the responsibility of the coalition to shoulder the burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing, this is about the general work, the specific work and the development agenda plan. First, the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Minister Šušteršič spoke first, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members! Thank you for presenting the views of your parliamentary groups, which I have listened to very carefully. Allow me to comment on some of the substantive issues relating to the balance sheet itself. Before I go to this, however, I would like to say that I was personally hurt that the Ambassador of Positive Slovenia used the phrase: "The fact is that the Minister broke the law." So far, I have been convinced that the fact that someone has violated the law in this country is noted by someone other than the MP of the National Assembly. And I hope that this is not some new parliamentary practice that you want to introduce. From this point of view, the opinion of the Social Democrats, who said that whether writing was right or wrong, would be given by the Court of Auditors, much more correct, and by the Court of Auditors the authorities responsible. In view of the fact that I have already been accused of unlawful conduct in two days and that I did not act against myself because of illegality, I would remind you that, as a positive Slovenia, you once announced an intervention against the Minister of Finance in the summer, and then you did not file it. Here we can then ask ourselves if you have just now found that it is illegal, or perhaps you are not doing your duty as you should. The other thing I'd say, and it's just as personal, is that it bothers me that you're talking about not knowing anything, or that there's something only a minister knows, or that you don't know if the Minister of Illegals is aware or not. The Minister talked a lot about all these things, even about this illegality I spoke to the committee yesterday when I answered your questions or your debate – you were there, you were listening, that was the impression – and I think it is wrong to say that you do not know what the Minister thinks if the Minister tells you what he thinks. You can say you don't believe him, you can tell him why you don't believe him, I can never convince you. But if you don't know that I said something when I said something when you were sitting there, then I don't know what it's like to say anything — either at the meetings or at coffee or at lunch. So much for that. As far as the substantive issues you have raised are concerned, I would say first - it is true that every minister and every government has the duty to act in accordance with the adopted budget or the adopted balance, but it is also true that we have always had, especially in crisis years, a practice when the government has repeatedly proposed new rebalancies because it has not been able to operate according to the existing one. We have successfully avoided the rebalancing of that crucial A budget balance this year. And in this sense, the words you quoted by the Prime Minister are completely correct. The government did not propose a rebalancing of the state budget, but only two of its accounts and only because of so-called one-off events of loans or recapitalisations. In this regard, I would also say that the expectation that this money will return to the budget that Mr Weber mentioned and marked as unrealistic – is true that he did not return this year. The question is whether he'll be back next year. It is possible, of course, that he will switch to equity if the capital adequacy of this bank falls next year. At the same time, however, I expect that, because all these recapitalisations — not only those carried out this year, but also those carried out in previous years — will, of course, be state aid — that the European Commission will also act in the way that it has acted in other banks receiving state aid during the financial crisis, if our country has not yet done so to impose upon the bank that, once these state aids have become profitable again, all these state aids will be returned to the State, as the NCBs had to do by yesterday. The new Ljubljana Bank, to reassure you, at least temporarily, currently has no foreign owners. When you talk about this, Mr Weber, to whom the Supervisory Council serves, let me tell you that, in the practice of corporate governance, the Supervisory Board is primarily concerned about the interests of the companies it oversees – their development. The Supervisory Board is not there so that the owner can call them and impose some operational decisions on them. The supervisors you like to talk about are also suggested by the bank, their supervisory board. They were intervened at the AUKN when the AUKN was still in full or complete capacity and received appropriate confirmations. If I continue to achieve my goals. The figures of 4.2% deficit or 3.5% deficit – these are some when we are talking about 4.2%, the estimates that were made mid-year by the Statistical Office and these are not some final figures. What is particularly important to us and why we speak very confidently and peacefully about everyone recognizing the achievement of fiscal targets is that we are achieving an adequate structural adjustment of the deficit, about a percentage point and a half a year. This is what this country has long committed itself to with the programmes sent to Brussels under the excessive deficit procedure. We are the first government to take these commitments seriously and meet them. As for – let me put it another way – the issue or payment of Coco bonds and the fact that the Minister does not have a clear picture of what is happening and so on, that action has taken place overnight without being foreseen. No overnight action is ever possible unless you have a pre-prepared B scenario. We had this B scenario ready. That is why we have proposed in due time amendments to the Banking Act, which has allowed the issue of these contingent-exchange bonds to banks, to any one not only one, and we have legislated this. It is clear, however, that when we proposed a rebalancing, this law or these legal provisions, which allow the issue of contingent-exchange bonds, did not exist. And since they were gone, we couldn't have foreseen this in the balance, because then we would have foreseen some expenses that weren't legal, and that would probably be illegal. I do not take the point that we should have taken action overnight, why KBC is the last to withdraw from recapitalisation and so on – I have often interpreted publicly, even at a closed meeting of the Committee in the National Assembly and would not have repeated this. [[...]] Who doesn't know what I'm talking about? With regard to the need to make a balance before these expenses — of course, that is not true. The Public Finance Act makes it very clear that if, during the year, there is a need for some expenditure that has not been foreseen, either because the National Assembly has adopted a new law, and such a new law has been adopted – the amendment of the Banking Act – either to adopt a decree, and such a decision has been adopted – in the National Assembly, a decision on the disposal of the State's capital investment in the New Ljubljana Bank has been adopted, or for some other unforeseen reasons, the State has the possibility to redistribute, to use the funds available, and if this cannot be resolved within the framework of the reallocation, within the available resources, to propose a rebalancing or to present it with a final account, and that is what we have done. Inside the B balance sheet we have provided funds for the loan or recapitalisation from the funds that the country has already had in the accounts and from the funds, and now we have proposed a balance sheet of that budget that talks about it and will have to be rebalanced in view of the fact that these funds have not yet been recovered. [[...]] This is the whole story, and I don't see any illegality here, I don't realize it, and I don't know what it's based on. Also, the fact that we should propose a balance sheet A balance sheet because in A balance sheet we will receive interest on Coco bonds is also not true. The Budget Implementation Act gives the Government a very clear mandate to additionally owe up to €70 million to the implementation of the budget; we have taken this opportunity at €38; we have adopted an appropriate decision by the Government. When we at the government found out what this deficit was, we accepted this conclusion, we also took into account the expected 10% interest per year on Coco bonds. So these numbers have already been taken into account, we have taken such a decision. This is also stated in the explanation of the decision and we have notified this decision, as well as the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of Veleva, the National Election. This is the whole story, and there is nothing illegal and no violation of the procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Good. I will now open an application to discuss the general part of the balance sheet. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. A fellow Shirtzel said that people understand the difficult financial situation. It is probably understood by those who do not have the means for basic necessities, in fact, to live a normal life, even more so than we who are sitting in this hall. Therefore, the reference to people when something is done quickly and above all illegally is unhygienic. Let's just pour some pure wine once and tell ourselves the truth about what's going on here. Minister Šuštersič said in his introductory explanation that it is a great achievement if you are doing business according to the budget or the balance. I mean, what a profound conclusion! Otherwise, otherwise, everything is illegal if it is not done as it is in the budget, and in fact, it is a problem and I see this pain as very great. The fact that it is a violation of the law when it has signed a contract to purchase Coco bonds without covering the budget is its great pain, but now we are trying to cover the elegant illegality of the truth back there. What are we doing today? Today we're doing a so-called face saving operation. We'd translate: how to keep your face clean. The Minister is trying to keep it because he signed in June or at some point a treaty for which he did not have a basis in the Budget Act, and we also cover this good face with the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who, when we received the budget on the table in this National Assembly, said in a vehement manner that he would not have to come to the National Assembly with a new budget rebalancing for this year, although many pessimists had announced it. I don't know if we were pessimistic, because it turns out we were the only ones who knew what we were talking about in this National Assembly. It is interesting that the President of the Government said this in Brussels – even before the international public, he lied that there would be no budget rebalancing. And that's why the right half of the political spectrum, if you want to, along with the National Gazette, began to refer. Today we have – I am 22 years old, I am the oldest Member of this National Assembly, now that Borut Pahor has left, and Mr Janša has gone to be President of the Government. We are talking about, watch the terminology, the partial balance of the budget, the minimum budget balance, the technical balance of the budget, the change in the B balance of the budget, adjustments, changes in the budget. This is news, my dears. You're bringing news into this political space. It's either a balance sheet or it's not there. Either it's a balance or it's not a balance! So I would ask you to do this face-saving operation by your customers, convince yourself and lie to yourself about what you are doing. It's not a mini, Max, but it's a balance, or it's not a balance. In some ways we clean up, or we keep this face-saving operation clean with 320 million, with which we actually recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank. You didn't want to recapitalise it for a simple reason because someone else suggested it because the Positive Slovenia suggested it because the Social Democrats suggested it was one of the ways. We're talking about B and C balance. The minister himself says we'll get interest. I am indeed a graduate teacher, I am not an economist, but throughout all these years I have been taught that A is a balance sheet, and that is what Mr Shircelj said today, a document, part of a budget that talks about revenue and expenditure. The minister is talking about getting interest in the A balance sheet, but we're not changing the income. Where do we have written down to get interest in the budget? Then why didn't you fix the A balance sheet? Not to mention what colleague Alenka said before. Look, in this erosion of democratic standards due to your cleansing, your bad news, from the theft of referendum signatures, to the legalization of the illegal work of a minister, as far as signing contracts on Coco bonds and government is concerned, I don't want to participate. I will vote against this balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, for her mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we can have coffee every day, we can have lunch, but that doesn't mean that when you make a mistake, as a member of the National Assembly, I'll be quiet. If that's why you're invited to coffee, then you're very wrong, you're very wrong. The fact is that it is necessary to have coverage in the State budget in order to assume commitments. Everything else is a violation of the law, and you know it, and that is why such an arrogant response to my presentation. You know very well, and I believe that a number of professional services at the Ministry of Finance have told you that. Here we are not saying that the contract for the purchase of one coffee was signed or I do not know what, but for 320 million euros, without coverage in the state budget. And with this document that we have before us today, you admit it. You provide additional spending rights, so it is said not to say money for buying Coco bonds – where was this when you signed the contract, the respected minister? - and it's a violation of the law. Once again, I don't know if you're aware of this, obviously you're not -- what reassignment is, I'm not teaching you today. You take one item and you put it on the other, not to simply turn what we had on the banks as state budget deposits into a deposit day. Because the document we have today puts you in front of a lie. Today, with this rebalancing, you provide additional spending rights, additional resources to have a contract that you have signed, where to book and not end up hanging in the air. Apparently, at the end of the year, the Ministry of Finance's professional services were able to convince you to do it for the devil, because you're going to have an even bigger problem. Budget by piece – this is really new, and this is for you too, Mr President. Budget composition and financial plan of direct budgetary users, Article 10 of the Public Finance Act. The budget shall consist of an overall part, a specific part and a development programme plan. It's OK up here. The general part of the budget consists of – because I think we are now talking about the general work, right? – the overall balance of revenue and expenditure, the financial claims and investment account and the financing account. This consists of a general part of the budget. How can we today discuss the general part of the budget if it is a little short? But it's simple. It's just that, like I said, you imagined it, and that's what you did, and that's what the law says. Mr. Secretary, I don't know which court you want us to put you in, because you said that illegality is determined by the courts, but I'll say that every minister should know what it means to break the law. Once again – remember what you signed, you can see yourself when you took an oath as Minister of the Slovenian Government. If you're now telling me to file an interpolation and then for two days we're talking, although you're going to have a slightly bigger problem because it's going to be a concrete violation of the law. [[...]] Your President or the President of the National Assembly and your party said that there was no concrete violation of the law with Minister Gorenak. Here, and by what you're doing today, you're proving to us that we had when we said you needed a balance, right, and that we're right today. I'm not explaining anything else to you, and it's not only for Minister Šuštersič, but it's for all the ministers of this government. If I know anything, respect for the laws also applies to all citizens and citizens and ministers, there is no exception to that, Mr Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Minister Šuštersič spoke, then Mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I took the floor mainly because we have just received data from the Statistical Office on the government deficit in the third quarter and I would like to inform you of this information because you have been referring to them all the time. But before I say anything about it, just two brief comments. We use terminology and expressions that match the content of what we do, and this is a mini-rebalance, technical rebalancing and so on. Why is that, and we've been explaining it all along. Secondly, yesterday on the board, Mrs Bratušek, I did not refer to our professional services at the Ministry because I did not think it appropriate to refer to them. However, since you yourself have been citing or asking yourself or suggesting something — I hope that it was the assumption that you no longer know what they are saying to me, as I know — but I will say it. Before we signed the contract and before we agreed on the issue of CoCo bonds, I had all the professional services in different departments – and you know that, just as well as I did – asked two questions: how does this book as a deficit – in this regard I got the answer to be published when the conversion occurs – and the question of whether we have to go to the rebalancing. They said we have to get back to the balance if we don't get it back by the end of the year. And that's what we're doing now, and they didn't convince me yesterday, but that's something we always knew we'd have to do if this conversation didn't happen. At the time the Secretary of State explained this, we had good reason to expect and we finally proposed a decree on the sale of the State share in order to recover the funds from private investors. With regard to this, it was once again said that due to some extraordinary income, the A balance sheet – Balance A balance sheet – should be proposed when the expenditure is exceeded or when the deficit is exceeded. We will not exceed the expenditure nor will we overcome the deficit allowed. So there's no reason to suggest a balance sheet A. Even any other revenue has come, then the rebalancing should have been proposed when, according to the government's mandate, I raised the excise duty on petrol, and then, according to your logic, I should have proposed a rebalancing at that time – because we did not fully anticipate it in the rebalancing to get more money with the excise duties on gasoline. Now, what did the Statistical Office say today? The Statistical Office has published its data or estimates of how the deficit of the state sector has moved in the first three quarters. Let me tell you some important things. One thing that is very important to me and that shows that the government is actually doing what it predicts is that for the first time in the history of the crisis, public sector spending has fallen nominally, which, according to our assessment, you may not agree, is necessarily done in a time of crisis. Just as citizens have reduced their expenditure, just as companies have reduced their expenditure, the country must, in the first quarter by 1.1%, in the second quarter by 4.2%, in the third quarter by 4.8%, each time compared to the same quarter of 2011, when another government was in charge of budgetary policy. In the third quarter, for the first time during the crisis, we reduced the country's material costs by 3.1%, reduced the expenditure for employees by 1.3% and reduced the expenditure for social benefits by 1.5%. This too must be done in a time of crisis, and this is what some Members have said before, that we can be happy and grateful that people understand that such an adjustment is necessary in a time of crisis. Never before, although the crisis has lasted since the end of 2008, this has not been done. Secondly, the country's deficit in the first three quarters of this year was 776 million lower than in the same period last year, 776 million lower deficits in the first three quarters than in the same period 2011. The single cost of recapitalisation of loans to companies, and so on, was reduced by 354 million in this same period compared to the same period last year. The country's consolidated debt increase at the end of the third quarter compared to the end of last year is EUR 263 million. This is practically nothing compared to what has happened in recent years. When the Statistical Office has published the deficit in the first three quarters without any single expenditure, it is said in our case that I would like to stress in particular that this year the only one-off expenditure taken into account by the Statistical Office is the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by the Court and Kad. It does not consider the single cost of paying CoCo bonds, which confirms what I said earlier, that Coco bonds will be recorded in deficits when and if there is a conversion to capital, otherwise they would already be recorded, as the recapitalisation by the Soda and Kad, which was carried out, I think on the same day – but if not on the same day, was one day of difference. That proves it. The deficit according to the statistical methodology did not increase when we paid CoCo bonds. Without these unique effects, the deficit is 4.2% of the gross domestic product in the first nine months. Last year, the same period in the first three quarters was 5.7% of gross domestic product. We all know that at the end of the year, if I recall correctly, around 4.5% without a single effect, it has been reduced in the last quarter. I hope to predict that this deficit will also be reduced in the last quarter as we have some extraordinary revenue, and in particular, as I said earlier, we have been limiting expenditure. We have not created any additional deficits on A balance sheet or any excess expenditure on A balance sheet. If we are now at 4.2, we will probably be somewhere at the end of the year under this and we will be very close to the goal we set – 3.5% without these unique effects. And we are about a percentage point and a half lower than you were last year in the same period, and we will certainly be at the end of the year with at least 1.5% lower than you were last year. This is the structural adjustment that I hope at any time in Brussels, at home, in America, if necessary, to say that we are meeting what the Government has set and we are meeting our fiscal goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u27	Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Dear Minister! You haven't heard me talk about how this affects the deficit today. It's true, it'll affect when there's a conversation. And it is clear to you today that this conversion will take place, and today it is clear to you that if this does not go well this year's deficit, it will go short next year, where you have set yourself an even more ambitious target of under 3% of the country's sector deficit. The IMF, which is mentioned many times, is already predicting more than 6% of the deficit today without this. That's a fact and that's facts. I'm glad you told me about the deficit figures in the third quarter of the year. Yes, it is 2.2% lower than last year. If we apply this by the end of the year, you are exactly 4.2% of gross domestic product. 6.4%, as was last year, minus 2.2%, if this is to be maintained, is exactly the same as Slovenia, even if you want the Statistical Office, although until now or until now the current year of evaluation has always been the Ministry of Finance – I do not know what has changed, but exactly – even if this is an assessment by the Statistical Office, I think it is more right than what has been announced in the stability programme and this is confirmed by the latest assessments by the European Commission, the latest OECD and the latest IMF evaluations. But as we say, time will tell, and very soon, which one of us is right in this case. That we have to work on the balance, but time has already shown, and now you're saying that unfortunately, whatever you want, we had the same time. And a few more ministers, and then I'll finish because I've given up so much to convince you. The balance is made before the deficit is too high and before the expenditure is too high, not when it's all gone. There are only as many ministers and the whole government as you see in the budget, in the balance sheet or wherever you want, and these 320 million have not been and are not yet in the state budget. You will be assured when the coalition accepts this balance, the mini-rebalance as you mention it, even though I do not find this term anywhere, not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the ZJF, anywhere. You introduced a new term, a mini-rebalancing, so it would be interesting to hear, I already said yesterday what the Legal and Legal Service had to say about it. We accept something we don't know at all, but okay, the coalition has decided, introduced a new parliamentary practice, and so it is. You must not assume an obligation until in the budget, the rebalancing, the mini-rebalance, if you want, this is not written down and this is a fact – a fact that is enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u30	Presidents, honourable Members and Members, Mr Minister and Secretary of State, a nice greeting! In fact, it is difficult to discuss today's adoption of the budget because we are talking about things behind. I personally think that the minister acted unlawfully, but it is true that this is probably how all the opposition and the opposite thinks of the coalition in this National Assembly. There is a political debate here, and we cannot get to the bottom of this. However, I would expect something else, Mr Minister, and this is – and a similar statement from your party president – that if those who can find out that you have acted unlawfully, this is the Court of Auditors, and if they find that today you are very open and clear that you are from that moment forward a former minister. This is what I expect you to do in the course of today. Second of all, from your instructions, the distinguished minister, you can see how very different we are. You state what a minus is in the state treasury and similar numbers, while in fact some are even questionable. What I'm interested in is something completely different. I am interested in what happens to the economy, economic growth or economic decline. Mr Minister, somehow I would like you to mention also these figures, what happened at the end of 2011, what information, when you have access to early data from the Statistical Office – the Statistical Office is talking about these numbers. Perhaps you may mention, Mr. Secretary, what is happening to unemployment in this beautiful country. And that, too, is why I will once again vote against this change in your budget, but it is that you have a completely wrong assumption. Your assumption is that the country is too indebted. Some of us know that this is an assumption that is intended only for some strange public, not for the professional. Always forget to say the following: our country, according to projections that I know, will be €19 billion and several billion at the end of the year, will be in charge of 50 per cent of the domestic product. The average developed countries of this world are in charge of 100 percent and a few percent. America broke 100 percent this year, Germany is moving somewhere between 90 and 100, and I think it's still, but very mild, debt is rising. The problem, the well-respected minister and the well-respected coalition, we all have somewhere else together. Not that we're too indebted as a country. It is foolish for a country that aims at the current state of the economy in the world, Europe and Slovenia to reduce debt – the problem is elsewhere. The cost or margin or interest, however you wish, is substantially too high. Here I must remind you, although this is an extremely sad memory for the state of Slovenia, that up to three referendums, which some of you are parties to, not all, the current coalition with the support of trade unions with such joy produced that by then the cost we had with our debt was somewhere near Germany and Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were still in those times, our budget would be better somewhere for €500 million. Or, to put it more simply, your demagogy, the demolition of reforms at this point in Slovenia at the annual level costs half a billion euros. This is your expense that you have hung on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The 2012 budget is history. It was almost realized as planned. If only we were looking at the 2012 budget, we would congratulate everyone who has done so, the Ministry of Finance and the Government. However, the budget needs to be viewed for a longer period, not as a cut-off year, and trends need to be identified. In one year, you can make budget good or bad foundations for the following year. What the Government has done is urgent measures, but not sufficient to improve the economic situation. Above all, €1.4 billion from European funds is foreseen in 2013, and we will see how this will be known. 0.3 billion 300 million is for agriculture – the better the supply – and 1.1 billion remains for investment and for regional development. The €1.4 billion from European funds represents as much as 17% of the 2013 budget. As many times as you told us when we proposed economic investments, where the resources are. The sources are different and sufficient, and these 0.5 billion loans from EB must be mentioned; the European Bank, which will allow the investment of projects of 3 billion. From all this branch some optimism for 2013 but the forecasts for 2013 are extremely poor. All stakeholders reflecting gross domestic product are negative. Private consumption is negative, especially in the case of a private consumer, it is worth mentioning that the investment of citizens and citizens in Slovenian banks is lower and what is happening to us this year to make these investments run to foreign banks. Here we did not take advantage of the opportunities that we mentioned at the beginning of the year in order to motivate citizens and citizens to make use of this investment money for some investments in Slovenia, such as the restoration of thermal insulation facilities and so on. State consumption is this year and will also be negative for the second year, but especially at the expense of reducing investment. In 2013, exports should be further encouraged by at least 20% in order to compensate for what domestic companies will not be able to produce more growth due to the less money available in Slovenia for investment. Each budget should be extremely economical. The results of the budget must be reflected in economic growth, which allows for the balance of public finances, investment, employment and prosperity of all. If we want to quickly offset revenue expenditure within one year, we are cutting, reducing investment activity, money for development and research, education, promoting competitiveness – this has been seen when the Minister of Economy gave up and gave 2.5 million euros to redistribute in this 2012 balance – we do not stop the decline, the bankruptcy of businesses, we do not keep existing jobs and we do not risk creating large economic investments, the spiral of economic and social situations is deteriorating. The inability to credit the economy, which is also truly over-indebted, and worse still, two thirds of companies do not innovate, do not improve their products, the right service or products, leads to increasing non-competitiveness, poor financial power, non-employment, non-crediting new technological processes or leads to an economic disaster. The almost planned 2012 budget, with all that has been mentioned, is an extremely poor basis for the 2013 budget, with more unemployment forecasting, as many as 10,000 people, negative economic growth, less money for public spending, less purchasing power for the population, non-crediting the economy and so on. From the part of the Government, the policies and guidelines adopted by the budget and, lastly, the legal framework, there must be more optimism, risk and desire for positive economic growth. When we read and hear that a lot of expenditure will be carried over to January, say in health care and so on, I don't know how this affects the budget, probably not well. I want a happy and successful financial year 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. After such a Stank conclusion, it would be best to remain silent, however, respectfully, today must be positive and optimistic, because it is a time of pre-new events, and when I first listened to the Minister, and then the representatives of the parliamentary groups of the position, I was very concerned. To talk about how everything is good in this Slovenia, how the budget will work out, not look at the street, not look at the economy and not look at the Employment Institute and then pour real pictures, but it seems in some way irresponsible. If everything were so good and all so beautiful, I believe that our people would not be so hard to live from day to day, but enough pessimism on my part. I am concerned about the conduct of the Government and the conduct of Minister Šuštersič. Why? His predictions, his predictions in the last few years, as I've been following him, have always been wrong. Everything he predicted didn't happen. Everything he said he should have done didn't work out, and that's why the situation is the way it is. However, I will confirm with the words: two years ago, you said that the bad bank was the worst option for dealing with bad claims in banks. You said that as long as you are a minister, we will not recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank with tax money; more than that, the day before the so-called Coco bonds, you said that the foreign owner or KBC would recapitalise the bank – it did not happen. Not to mention that you said a month ago that you will not have to adopt the 2012 budget rebalancing, and see, on today's date, two days before the new year, we have an extraordinary meeting. I am concerned about all this because this is not what one Member is saying, it is not just one minister who deals with another segment, but it is said by the Minister of Finance, who is one of the most responsible ministers in this country, and I must say that he also has the most difficult task. Even because of all this, ladies and gentlemen, we want or do not want to admit that we are losing our reputations in Europe, and we are also annoyed by the irresponsible statements of ministers that I am not talking about the President of the Government, as Alenka Bratušek has already said. The second aspect, which I am extremely afraid of, is generally the complete economic policy that this government is leading. Despite the savings, despite the reduced costs, we still have the biggest decline in GDP in Europe this year. It's the biggest fall! And we made the ZUJF, and we passed the laws, and I don't know what we're doing, and there's nothing we know about reviving the economy. I have to say that I'm afraid of this and I really just want what Stanko said, we just need luck because we probably lack some kind of knowledge in the government. I do not know why we have not learned in Slovenia from the mistakes we have made, including my government and other previous governments. Years ago, because of our economic policy, we destroyed engineering throughout the country. When that wasn't enough, we went to destroy the textile industry. When that wasn't enough, we destroyed the wood-processing industry. Then we quickly destroyed the construction work, and what else do we have? By the failure of the Government, which says it will systematically save everyone in this country and I have had the opportunity to call on the Committee on Economics and Finance to save one company with 300 employees, this is Radeče Paper. Members who know everything said, "No, Matjaž, we will systematically solve this." The year is over, 320 people will be on the stock exchange, slowly, January and April, they will be left with funds from the Employment Institute and we will have a social bomb in Radeče municipality, and there are many such municipalities in Slovenia. Where is this system framework to save the economy? He's not here. If Minister Šušteršič's predictions were correct, then the rebalancing would not be necessary because he then said we would sell the bonds within a few months and the matter will be resolved. We didn't, and that's why we had to accept them today. We're going to have to take a rebalancing. The only thing that is positive and I welcome this and I must say that I am a little confused, whether I vote against or should abstain, you will help Cimos and thank God by recapitalising 20 million we will not destroy, at least in this coup, this auto industry, which is the engine of the economy in Slovenia. That's why I'm probably gonna hold on to this balance, because at least it's something good. We will keep jobs in Primorske and throughout Slovenia. Mr Šušteršič, just one question, let this seem hypothetical. Why hypothetically? Because I know that the government coalition is doing well as far as the votes are concerned. What would happen if the balance of this budget were not adopted today? Would this mean that in January, February, March, we would probably extend the country's payment deadlines by 30, 60 days? What would be done in this case? I know that the government coalition has to work and must vote as you agree, which is clear to me when it comes to democracy – but what would happen if this balance were not adopted? Because it would be very easy to accept the rebalancing immediately in August, or after the vacations sent, and today this extraordinary meeting would not be necessary. So I have to say, I'm worried. And then today I read in Finance, when Mr. Arhar, who is also one of the culprits for my notions that there has been such a credit crunch, says that in foreign banks in Slovenia there are cheaper loans and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have been engaged in the economy for five minutes know that foreign banks do not lend to the Slovenian economy, even reduce credit and are no more expensive. But if you want to have a project today, if a young entrepreneur wants to succeed and comes with an elaboratory, there's no hero, there's no such labo to get credit at any bank, and there's no foreigner. So I hope that also because of Slovenia, some of your forecasts will come true and that next year will be a little better. But I'm afraid not, because we're going to have to cross over these Coco bonds next year and there's going to be GDP or a 1.5% deficit. So we don't get what we all want together. I'll see how I vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! "The worst human problems begin when they can do what they want." These are Thomas Henry Huxley's thoughts. Warnings from Members, colleagues and colleagues are coming, I think in this direction there would be no problem. The actual budget is not enough to lose words, for one of the professors said that talking about the executed facts of the budget is similar to picking up the dead behind the curves — without a particular effect. We need to define — what some debaters have already said — what happens before the facts are carried out. And since municipal budgets are also an integral part of the state budget, I would like to draw attention to one major threat. With effect from 1 January 2013, the government is expected to release the prices of municipal services. As early as December, the municipal councils of many municipalities adopted conclusions where utilities, water, garbage disposal and so on increased by 300%. Here I have a Decision of the Municipality of Radenci, which, as from 1 January 2013, says and writes, increases the price of water by about 300%. Do you know what that means? That is why I call on the Minister, the Secretary of State, and also on the position. Indeed, in many of the letters written by citizens and businesses as well, companies point to the problem that this could be a disguised way to provoke protests against the government. If a municipality raises prices by 300%, we can rightly expect it to be a revolt. And that's not the only congregation. Here I have, and you have also received – I know that an e-mail received one of the ministers – where exactly the annexes are. Then we have a so-called water refund. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in Decision 21. 2011 accepted that the water average is 0.0555 euros per cubic metre. This Decision is still in force. I have a document accompanying me that the company, a company from Radgona or Radence, which operates the water pipeline, has increased the water average by ten times. This means instead of 0.055 is 0.555, that means ten times. Instead of being for some household on the 1.11 euro line, it's 11.11. Do you know what that means? That we live in a country that I've already warned about, where almost everyone does what they make up, and what's interesting, the citizens have already warned about it. Nobody's reacting, nobody's warning. And the wild dance of the price of municipal services, if the government does not accept the so-called reference prices or if it does not temporarily freeze prices on 1 January, it will continue. By doing so, what the Government wants to achieve with the budget is to balance public finances in order to increase the competitive economy, so that, to the extent possible, we can make life easier for the inhabitants. That is why I believe that there is a real responsibility in the Government, and today is the time to take a decision at the letter meeting to suspend the price rise because it is a wild impossible dance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I find that the first list of debaters is exhausted and ask if anyone else wants to discuss it? I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Check-in is on. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Earlier, fellow Member Matjaž Han, who also president of the Committee on the Economy, welcomed the assistance or recapitalisation of Cimos so that an important factory in the automotive industry in Slovenia would not fail. I'd like to join him on my own. It is right to recapitalise and to help Cimos maintain the knowledge that this company has and to maintain the jobs in this factory and in all other related companies. It is certainly a matter of many jobs that will be preserved and maintained in this way, knowledge and production in this factory. Of course, for the economic success of this government, we cannot count the failed builders, and I would therefore ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance or Government why they did not choose to help the construction company Primorje of Ajdovščina, the only major construction company left at the construction site in Slovenia. See, there would also be a need for approximately EUR 20 million of aid or recapitalisation in Primor. From the flow created, it would be very easy to service the falling liabilities and survive. Some data; before bankruptcy, this construction giant had an unfinished production of € 140 million and about 2.4 billion of contracts already signed for new contracts. The loss for the banking sector is much greater than the loss of banks and perhaps the state of Primorje to the capital sector by sending the company to bankruptcy. Here, too, the social costs of the country are very high, and in view of all the above, it is necessary to ask whether the Government will finally listen to such opinions and warn and whether it will also start to save businesses and jobs. Nothing was done in solving the construction company Bežigrad, Kraske zilarnik or Papernica Radeče, but I have highlighted Primorje on my own, and in Slovenia today an Austrian company is building on a large scale, which is actually working somewhere even below the price and creating a monopoly position on the Slovenian construction market, a company which, according to the data we have, has been saved by the Austrian state or has encouraged it to enter our construction market now. So that if Cimos could be helped and it is right that this has been done, the country could also help other companies to preserve the knowledge we have in Slovenia. Today, no construction company in Slovenia has a reference to build tunnels. This is very worrying and certain knowledge is also being lost here. I would like to ask the representative of the Government or the Secretary of State, what is the difference between Cimos and Primor, why the state here did not help why the banks did not help. On the one hand, we have a solution and on the other hand, we have a huge downturn, and in fact, we could save both companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u40	The Minister of Finance referred yesterday to the 41st Article of the Public Finance Act on the basis of the reasoning of this rebalancing. He says: If, after the adoption of the budget, a law or decree establishing new commitments to the budget is adopted, the Government shall include these commitments in the budget and shall determine the amount of expenditure for that purpose within the framework of the higher expected revenue and the extent of the commitment established by the budget or by reallocation of funds under possible savings. This article was referred to by the Minister on the argument that the operation for the purchase of bonds called Coco bonds at the time we carried it out in June of this year was legal. He also referred to the Banking Act, which we have amended to introduce as a possible instrument in our restructuring and rehabilitation of banks. This would therefore be the argument that there was a legitimate basis on which the Government approved its operation at the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank on 27 June this year and voted there in favour of the conclusions allowing NLB to increase its so-called authorised capital. In all, we must therefore find out; for the first time, that the Banking Act has allowed only an instrument, not a concrete instrument, not a concrete action by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or this country, but the possibility of any business bank, through the institution of authorised capital, to ensure the payment of a loan that can be made, under certain conditions, by this law, specifically, into capital. In the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, such a condition is laid down that if the level of first-class capital of Core Tier 1 falls below 7 %, the loan paid shall be converted to the capital of the Bank and an appropriate increase in the ownership of the State on the basis of the bonds of the New Ljubljana Bank purchased by the State. The Banking Act has provided only the legal basis for such an operation, but we have not decided by this law to do so. The National Assembly then adopted a Decree on the availability of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Ljubljanska Banka. There we have mentioned three possible ways in which the state can help the bank to ensure its capital adequacy. At that time, we said; for the first time, recapitalisation, and only in the annex, by the way, and not in the text of the decree, we said that the Republic of Slovenia, as the largest shareholder, would propose and support the assembly conclusions on the basis of which an increase in core capital would be made, including a possible increase in investment. As far as the approved capital is concerned, all possible recapitalisations under the laws governing companies and banking may take place, and those involving private capital may take precedence. If I return to the 41st paragraph on which the Government is to ensure the reallocation of funds in order to make a payment of €320 million for the purchase of New Ljubljana Bank bonds – the loan that the Minister is talking about today. Article 41 of the Public Finance Act expressly provides that those obligations must be for which the law or decree so provides. We must find that in this particular operation it was neither the law nor the decree that will say: The Government or the Republic of Slovenia will pay so much and so much money to purchase the bonds of the New Ljubljana Bank. You did not provide such a legal basis and therefore the payment of these bonds was based on illegal conduct in June 2012. Unlawful conduct that you try to legalize by adopting a balance sheet called Balance B Balance or Claims and Investment Account. That's it. I think it's a fire operation just before the end of the year, when you're trying to provide a basis for illegal conduct in the past. As a comparison has already been made in public between the Court of Auditors' call for the resignation of former Finance Minister Francet Križanič, let me say, however, that there is a significant difference. At that time, the Court of Auditors imposed corrective measures on Minister Križanič due to the errors that occurred during the first Janša government. According to the Court of Auditors, the implementation of the remedial measures was too slow, the remedial measures were not implemented in a timely manner and was therefore called upon the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to propose the discharge of the Minister of Finance. In this particular case, which we are talking about today, it is an explicit recognition that illegal conduct has been committed and that the resources of the state budget have not been used in a legal way. By the way, the opposition at the June meetings of the Committee on Finance and also of the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the Decision on the availability of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank made this clear. In the end, I would also like to join the words spoken before me by Samo Bevk and Matjaž Han in welcoming the recapitalisation of Cimos. This is an extremely important Slovenian supplier in the automotive industry, and this recapitalisation is an example of how to deal with similar cases. Yesterday's Finances provided information that banks have a claim of EUR 2.9 billion in bankruptcy of Slovenian companies in bankruptcy. This is a worrying information, and I propose that as one of the first measures to recover the economy, we understand the objective of not allowing any business to collapse anymore and that the maximum of our efforts should be invested in maintaining these businesses and maintaining jobs. For there is a illusion that the empty space of the failed companies will replace tomorrow something new, better, cleaner. In some cases it does happen. The Maribor experience of the collapse of large industrial giants, where there was also a lot of good and new, but it shows that we lost our business process, that we lost references, that we lost new jobs that we never replaced in many forms again. I propose that we take these experiences as lessons because we do not have to allow the collapse of every company. The Primorje case is illustrative, a 20 million-dollar recapitalisation would be needed to ensure that the company improves its capital adequacy, more accessible resources in banks and thus the possibility of realising EUR 2.4 billion of contracts signed. On the other hand, because we have not done so, we have caused a big hole in the banking system for 120 million euros. Here again, I call for us to dissigmate recapitalisation, because it can be an effective measure to save businesses and, most importantly, to save jobs in these companies. Therefore, I should also like to welcome the decision that the Republic of Slovenia will buy 22% of the shares of the Belgian NCB banking and insurance group in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. But in this place, I suggest that the government make a dot. This transaction is made, according to publicly available data, in a favourable way, for a low price, and I suggest that we hold this property, including the existing share of the Republic of Slovenia, to decide to recapitalise in this country, explain it and present it in a clear and transparent manner to people, to say that we are protecting the preservation of the national accumulation in Slovenia, thereby protecting the Slovenian system banks, because it is also a guise, to say the Icelandic case is a solution to Slovenia. The situation in Iceland in 2008 and the situation in Slovenia in 2012 is quite different. And the same measures, even if romantic and for me as a socialist or a social democrat, are not sustainable. They did a similar operation in Iceland, as we did in the early 1990s when banks were being rehabilitated. At the top of the three large banks, three state-owned banks have set up to retain domestic operations, service the needs of the domestic population and the domestic economy, which have taken over domestic operations of the failed banks. So it is not true that they simply left the banks bankrupt, and it is not true that they simply sold these banks, which means that the state has engaged in a specific management programme, that the banks have saved and today these banks represent one of the strong foundations of Icelandic recovery. I propose that we do the same with the recapitalisation of state banks in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In particular, I will focus on the content of the act, which we are actually dealing with or slightly modifying today, this is the budget balance and the part of the budget that is presented here, the so-called balance sheet B, which provides additional loans for investments, both in the banking sector and in the business sector, and precisely because of this, as my predecessors have said, the increase in investment also increases the added value, ensures greater stability of the banking system and thus creates new jobs. However, something else is important. Here it is important that there is no need to correct the budget of so-called balance sheet A. This balance sheet A was adopted by – this government proposed it in May, at the same time as a special law that reduced so-called expenditure, in particular those that provide social security for residents and residents, people. And the fact that balance sheet A doesn't change is to say hello. This means that the state consolidates public finances, that the government consolidates public finances, much as I mentioned earlier, in an acceptable way. For it is not possible that the economy alone bears the greatest burden of this crisis. It is not possible to increase expenditure in the state or public sector. Nor is it possible that in a market economy where the country's share in public finances is almost 50%, which is among the higher, approximately 48.9%, the country's share is increasing especially if the country is indebted. With this policy, the government has interrupted the previous path of borrowing and spending money, namely spending that money that was not actually created. Today we can talk semantically and talk about whether we are saving or not. We're not saving again. We'll save when we actually have something left. In fact, we're just spending less. We spend, we adapt to the consumption of what we create, and this trend is to be welcomed. After all, this trend is also welcomed by international markets. Also, the international financial markets, on which the price of money we need to rent this money, need to rent loans primarily in order to remedy past debts that have been made if you want to, in the last 20 years. This price of money is falling, but it does not approach Austria, Germany and this price of money was never as much as Austria or Germany had before. I don't know where that data came from. I highly doubt they're right. Interest was increasing for Slovenia and therefore had to be more costly than some neighbouring countries. This means, on the other hand, that a framework is provided to make money cheaper in Slovenia. Public financial stability also provides the conditions for money to be cheaper and therefore the economy to be more competitive. Here is now the issue of the country's role in this economy, and I believe that the role of the country is primarily to create competitive conditions for the economy. For the economy, so that the economy knows, above all, what it is worth to produce or what services it is that are actually worth actually doing, so that this economy can be competitive, that it will be competitive and that it will expand, employ and so on. I think this is the economy in particular, and the economics are the ones who will see it. So far it's still been like this. Where the state was that generator in some of the already forgotten semi-systems, in those systems, more or less failed, there may have been some debris left on the ground, but these systems are no longer. However, today we are talking about a market economy where the country can play a larger or smaller role. When we talk about the state starting to consolidate public finances and that it has taken certain measures in the area of banking, property management, pensions or pension reform in order to prepare labour market measures, everyone will go into a more competitive economy and also to solve certain problems, problems that have arisen in recent years. And that is why we are speaking today, if you want, as colleague Han said, positive about this or with optimism, because this is one of the measures that actually provides the basis for other measures. Why should we today talk about pessimism and hopelessness, which is contrary to optimism? Why? I don't think that's why it doesn't mean that we don't know what the real situation is in this country today. Today we know that unemployment is a problem, and today we know that the real income of the population is falling, that consumption has decreased by 5% and that real incomes are falling. However, these measures, which are also based on fiscal consolidation, ensure that this direction of development is reversed. To turn positive to the fact that this country will not have negative growth next year, but will reverse this negative growth. As a result, we can tell someone that he had the wrong plan or plan. Great, if he was misplanning negative growth and actually going to be a positive growth, because that would be good for people. We can't take it here without admitting that things are going in a positive direction. This is said to lead all these actions in a positive direction, which is also recognised by foreign markets. It's definitely some kind of criterion. Speaking of which, my colleague Stepišnik talked about wanting us to have a happy financial year 2013, we certainly don't have to look at him with fear. With fear, it is completely pointless to look at it, but to look at it with the hope that it will pull the wagon up. And last but not least, if we're talking about happiness, happiness is usually on the brave side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. My conclusion that no one wanted to discuss it again was not correct. So I gather you'd like to discuss it further, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u44	Interesting situation, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about a balance sheet. The Minister's not here. I believe he's busy. He's not answering. Nobody's answering. That's an interesting situation. I believe that, too. Today, in the National Assembly, we are talking about a rebalancing, whatever you call it, about something being done after what has already been done, and I cannot agree that the poor understand that the situation is difficult. Believe me, no one understands that this is a difficult situation. But they know, they know the devil well, and it is up to us in the National Assembly, and it is up to anyone else to do less, to do less, to do something, to make the tribulation smaller, to not just have charity and everything else that we do and to thank that is happening. This is a fundamental question that we have not received an answer to today — the answer to what we are going to do in the economy, in companies such as jobless predictions or employees. I can agree that we are consolidating public finances in such a way that all the things we were proud of will die with this consolidation; above all in research, in development, in new jobs with added value. This is what we are actually doing, because once we consolidate public finances, everything we were proud of and tried to do in Slovenia as a social state will no longer be. Therefore, the question is what will we do in Slovenia. This question, however, would be expected and I support that we went to the recapitalisation of Cimos, but something should be done. When we warned a bunch of companies, such or other, that something had to be done there, the answers were very flat-rate, they were non-chalant, so they could appear. However, we could find a way together in this National Assembly, which companies, what companies, how to help, recapitalise and from all this, what we are trying to prove on the opposition side. That is why I think it is infertile to debate and to point out that this is not the way it is done. We don't even get an answer. If the minister tried to answer at first, then he gave up and left, and that's not right, and that's why I'm simply protesting here. This is not how we do things, this is not right, it is not good, it is not democratic, but of course we can talk about someone from the position explaining what we are doing, we may also expect the answers of those who have sent the rebalancing to the National Assembly, and this is the Slovenian Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much, very good-bye! The budget rebalancing came very quickly. In the discussion on the previous balance, I wanted to reach a second balance, or already in the 2013 and 2014 budget, as soon as possible, in order to reach a more development-oriented balance. To such a balance that would rekindle people's hope and trust. What we are doing today is actually a correction of what has already been agreed, but not on a formal and legal and legal basis. It is therefore necessary to consolidate these matters today, to correct or entangle them in the legal tracks, if I say more kindly. Today we read about the Slovenian logistics holding company, what we would do with Slovenian railways and Luka Koper, how we would connect two things, one with a plus, another with a minus, and which version of Luke Koper or whose pier would be the most convenient, then one of the brighter lights, buying 22% of the shares of the NCBs in the NLB at the price of one euro per share. The developmental orientation of the budget or the rebalancing would be necessary. Today, we are not talking about big projects, but I hope that all the things that are being rectified with the rebalancing lead to a rapid recovery in 2013 that will mean the third development axis – on Thursday, the State Spatial Plan for the first section, that is, the construction of the third development axis, the southern part. That this means, although yesterday, the Secretary of State said: "The promotion of economic activity cannot be compared with how much investment, state investment the government and the state are investing in certain walls, bridges and so on." This is not a promotion of economic activity. I do not think that this is true, and this also means promoting economic activity. That is why I want us to get to the 2013 and 2014 balance as soon as possible after this rebalancing, where big projects will have an important role to play. Why? Not to come, as colleagues have already said today, to further sad situations in companies, such as the sad situation of Primorje. This company could carry out these major infrastructure projects. I'm sure someone will be doing them now. I'm sorry it's probably going to be foreign companies, among other things. The positive direction that colleagues have been talking about on a competitive market economy – even this path will not be enough to read that the Ministry of Economic Development has given so many and so many calls if we do not help businesses to eliminate credit crunches. I would like to hear from the Ministry of Finance how these recapitalisations or such aids that I support, including for Cimos, will be brought in and what vision the Ministry of Finance has with the early resolution of the credit crunch. Indeed, companies do not feel sufficient obedience to the banking system in order to relaunch the economy. As our colleague mag says. Stepfather, economic growth is the one that will save us and economic growth is the one that will stop the resurgence of unemployment, without it we will not see a reduction in the rate of unemployment. Programmes such as the aid programme to Pomurje, Pokolp and other areas that have now been reopened and newly perceived as essential will not be sufficient if the banking system is unable to service businesses, including small businesses. What aid does the calls for, where it is stated, that so much and so much of the company's own share or co-financing in the investment cycle must be provided if they are not able to obtain it or are not provided by the banking system? I will stand by myself in this rebalancing, because there are some things I absolutely support, but I am not sure that this is already what leads to the bright future or what is the key to success for the 2013 Happy Business Year. I ask the Secretary of State to provide me with answers on how he sees the resolution of the credit crunch and, in this connection, to start the economy, because I believe that bridges and construction of infrastructure projects also mean a light for the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Zivkovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! Maybe just a few responses to the past discussion. As regards the legality of the proposed balance sheet, the increase in the budget balance due to the so-called convertible bond or the Coco bond. Here I might appeal to the Members themselves to somehow put themselves in the shoes of the Minister of Finance when this manoeuvre took place. We are talking about a manoeuvre, a bond for which Slovenia had no legal basis at that time. We introduced it with the Banking Act. In fact, we tried to save the main Slovenian System Bank in a way that would be acceptable by the European Commission and that would save the bank in the absence of systemic legislation that we did not have at the time when we were talking about the Bank's Stability Act, and that was the only way to help such a system bank not to go directly to recapitalisation. As you know, it is a convertible bond, which means that it is converted into capital under certain conditions, which means de facto recapitalisation. This means, in fact, what you constantly appeal to by opposition Members and Members of the opposition is the recapitalisation or resolution of Slovenian banks through recapitalisation. If the bad bank law had been passed earlier – we know how long it had been adopted and why it had taken so long to take it — systematicly, through the manoeuvres of a bad bank, we could have acted in this bank and the conversion of this bond might not have occurred and perhaps not be discussed today. When this manoeuvre was proposed by the Ministry of Finance, as the Minister has already mentioned, it was not even known how the matter would affect the national accounts themselves. In fact, it was unknown and this was the first time in the history of Slovenia. Slovenia did not know such derivatives, at least not from the point of view of national accounts, so it was very uncertain at the time. At the time, it is said to this day, to the proposal for a rebalancing, we have somehow tried to clear things up and this proposal for a rebalancing has come to light. Once the final account is made, it will be compared to the proposed balance, and this is what the Court of Auditors will find out in my opinion. It will also identify the content behind this, and not only in fact, the technical records of individual laws, regulations and interpretations of these laws and regulations. Because if the Ministry of Finance were to act in this way when the biggest Slovenian bank was being saved, we might be in the programme today. This is about Coco bonds themselves or the balance sheet itself. As for the evidence that the opposition, both by the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia, has long been talking about how to go to the balance. True, but at the same time, what a rebalancing the opposition has been saying is going to happen. The opposition spoke about going into the budget balance, the state budget A balance because it is expected that more than 100 million will be spent on public sector salaries. Here was the reason that some of the Committees of the National Assembly cited it as a reason to go into the balance. And not that we have a B balance sheet on the table today, for a completely different reason, because of the convertible bond. Talking about someone hitting what's going on — it's not. Actually, I'll say it at home, miss twice. As far as recapitalisation is concerned. There is a lot of talk about how many businesses need recapitalisation, and there is much talk about how many jobs these recapitalisations will save. Relatively little is said about how many jobs the recapitalisations have saved in the past, what happened to these companies, how much money went into these recapitalisations. And even less talk about where to get the money for these recapitalisations today. Is it by raising taxes that we increase the burden of the economy to raise the burden of the population, reduce their income available, the weaker the most vulnerable, and come from a position that the state knows better where to allocate money than the economy does? If we think we are smarter than where to give our money than the directors of Slovenian companies who are not dependent on the country know, but pay taxes, then we can do it. However, if we think that Slovenian companies will be better able to allocate their money than we would know with higher taxes and additional burdens on these companies, lower their competitiveness, lower export potential, and then we can go to further unlimited recapitalisations, raise taxes so that we can finance these recapitalisations. Most likely these recapitalisations will not save businesses for a long time, given that we need structural reforms in this Slovenia, but these are two options. To speak only of the fact that the State must give some money for the recapitalisation of some firms in difficulty, on the other hand not to say that this means an additional debt in foreign markets that we cannot carry out at this time, or that this means an increase in taxes, but in my opinion it is irresponsible. This money has to be obtained somewhere, and there's a long way to go when we can print it. We can't do this today. Another matter that is very important in this case is how good the money will be in this case and in the case of state investments that are supposed to start the economy – on the other hand, I agree that these are important, because of their primary intentions, infrastructure and so on, but I find it difficult to agree that these investments are important to increase the demand for private market work. These investments are important because of the infrastructure they provide, because of the positive externalities they provide to the economy, but not because they increase labour market demand. In this case, such investments are not effective because Slovenia is an open economy. You know that the very economic theory and empirical research itself suggests that the placing of state money just to increase demand on the labour market means that all this money is being shipped abroad and that this effect of fiscal stimulants in Slovenia is not on the gross domestic product or is even negative. This is even more true for high-indebted economies with high interest rates, which Slovenia is also. And when we talk about whether or not we are in debt, I will say that fighting is a little important to look at just the structure or the debt, it is the right state of debt in relation to the gross domestic product. They were mentioned in the United States and other countries and so on. The only indicator of whether we're in debt or not is just how much we have someone from the outside, a foreign investor, willing to lend us money. If someone is not willing to lend us money at 6% interest rate, then we are over-indebted with 20% public debt. If someone is willing to borrow at a lower interest rate to a country with a 100 % public debt, then he is not indebted. This is the only indicator of over-indebtedness that Slovenian public finances and the Slovenian economy must now consider relevant. And when we talk about the impact of government representatives, ministers on "spreads", on interest rates on Slovenian government bonds, on credit ratings and so on. The day the Constitutional Court banned the referendum on two laws, which would mean that Slovenia would not have to go into the programme, not to solve banking problems and not to solve fiscal problems, "spreads" fell dramatically on international markets for the Slovenian bond. I think that this is a clear indicator of what international markets consider a relevant and important measure for the Slovenian economy. Perhaps you are aware of the situation in Italy because you know that under the technical government of Mr Monti, its popularity has fallen dramatically over the entire mandate. But if you go to look at the graph of the fall of its domestic popularity and the fall of "spreads" in foreign markets, they're almost the same. So we know that some of the measures are not the most popular, but they need to be introduced and implemented for the stability of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I find there's still interest in the debate, so I'm opening the list. Please sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that, as the Secretary of State said, even in Slovenia, we have been forced to take measures in the National Assembly that have not really been and are not popular and it is therefore perfectly normal for the government and the coalition to fail to support the public during a period of time. But here we are not for this, I am talking at least about New Slovenia, so that in any way, out of any desire to rule, we will remain in Parliament and gain popularity. We are here to take measures that are good for Slovenia for citizens and citizens of this country who deserve a better life than they do today. Colleagues and colleagues, given that, after all, this is the last meeting of the National Assembly this calendar year, I think that there should be a little more hope in our discussions, a little more optimism for the period ahead of us, and especially on the basis of what we have achieved together, including the opposition, and what we have achieved together with some eminent state institutions in these December days. We have to. Politics needs to get their trust back. No one but us can get it back. Probably also in this way, and exclusively in this way, to make Slovenia a re-legal state. This means that for the situation we still have, we find the culprits and sanction them. Under the rule of law, he's calling a lot of people. Not just citizens and not just civil society. We were at the top of the economy, at Brdo pri Kranj, where around 500 eminent Slovenian economists, as a first request to parliament, made the government want a legal state. Interesting, isn't it? They didn't ask us to give them more money from the budget or anything like that, first of all, the rule of law. This is a policy task, perhaps too little is said here about the third branch of power, which is an autonomous branch of government and must do its own homework in its own house first. We have a lot of work to do in the future in the labour market, and here we have great anomalies. Our regulation of the market is extremely rigid, we are not competitive, we have dropped dramatically on the competitiveness scales, and we need to fix this. On the one hand, we have a part of the employees who are privileged and highly protected, perhaps also because of the excessive and powerful role of trade unions, and on the other hand we have many more capable than those mentioned earlier, who do not find regular employment and seek jobs under different contracts and so on. This, colleagues and colleagues, is not a just solution. Companies should have an easier opportunity to forgive, as a healthy company, a real manager certainly knows and everyone in this house knows that human capital is the most valuable. People in companies, capable, educated, good, hardworking are the biggest capital. You can't just buy these, even if you have a basket of money. As far as the budget deficit is concerned, we are on the right track – I will not repeat it because I said it in the position of the Group of Members earlier. I think we are on the right track, which shows that in the future we have cheaper money in the financial markets, including for our companies. When I recently spoke to an excellent Slovenian economist, who exports the bulk of his products, he told me that in the National Assembly we are talking and pushing on the Government, which is also the right thing to open public, large infrastructure projects as soon as possible, so that our companies can start working and so on, and that this is all right, but that we have not enough to build an open economy, that we are in the European community and that companies are not prohibited from exporting services and goods. It is also true that Slovenia urgently needs a new vision at this point of its development and that we must all get rid of the surviving economic ideas together as soon as possible. We need to move away from a given system and realize that so in today's world it is simply not possible to function as we used to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, this year certainly wasn't a simple year. The legacy received by this government coalition was not good, all trends were downwards and in fact needed to be held tightly and worked in all areas. I think it is commendable to the Government that, without speculating, what is right and what is wrong, it has been preparing measures that have turned trends in the right direction and that provide opportunities to continue the implementation of the budget, to continue implementing reforms in other areas as well. There must be a difference between coalition and opposition. In this mandate, I have not experienced any opposition party making any proposal that would be restrictive, which would be restrictive, which would reduce national consumption or public consumption. We have not experienced this proposal in this mandate. In the previous term, despite being the biggest opposition party, we proposed measures that went in this direction. On the other hand, as it is said, the coalition was the one, or the coalition was the one that had to propose the necessary measures, whether they were liked or publicly liked or accepted or not. It is necessary to propose measures that are necessary and we have actually done so in this mandate. Some of these measures, which were proposed, were also agreed with union partners, with economic and social partners, the pension reform was supported here in the National Assembly with a very large majority – also supported by the opposition – which shows that the government has used partnership mechanisms in key law, as well as labour market reform is going through a similar scenario and in a similar way, and I hope that this package will be before us next month and that we will find similar agreement on these solutions. Unfortunately, two, three key laws, which are important for the functioning of the State, did not have the appropriate agreement. Perhaps in the beginning, when the government was established there in February, in March, and then the enthusiasm for the support of certain solutions that were then operationalized through the laws – such as the Bad Bank Act or the Slovenian State Holding Act – has waned and the support has retreated and eluded. However, these are key solutions, because something needs to be done on these two segments. If the management of state assets was better last year, in 2011, then it would probably be significantly higher to pay dividends to the state budget and significantly less to recapitalise from the state budget and, as a result, probably a significantly lower toll on the budget. Here it is necessary to know that the state property was not well managed in 2011 and has not been well done. The dividend was around €34 million and financial recapitalisations were made by around €507 million. In short, 15 times more recapitalisations have been made than dividends received in the budget. With this difference of around 470 million, the balance sheet in the budget could also be different, perhaps it could be fermented in a different way, perhaps it could be used for other investment purposes, if not for less credit. And here it is necessary to take one important step forward with the management of state property, otherwise the property will only be a burden. As for the changes or the necessary balance, I think that criticism is largely unjustified, to a large extent unjustifiable. If we were to take a rebalancing to correct a mistake made by the government in the system, then I'd still understand. But primarily the rebalancing is needed to save national pride or recapitalise national pride, this is the New Ljubljana Bank, and to provide funds for some critical recapitalisations to important Slovenian companies. We accept this rebalancing on purpose, that is to say that what is supposed to follow is the so-called national interest, which is highlighted by some throughout. I think that the Government has made a good decision when it has decided on such types of recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and also the proposal for the recapitalisation of Cimos and beyond, I think it is not bad because it ensures some stability in the business of the company, it retains a lot of jobs and this in some segment that is perspective. For some good things, it is also clear that somehow we are shown that the Government has bought a very cheap share in the New Ljubljana Bank. About 20% of the share was EUR 2.8 million, which is said to have paid about one hundred and twenty times less for this share than was sold to the NCBs. What will happen next with these assets – this is a question, and it is probably only necessary to know that those who act as real owners do not manage their property as political owners. The State is certainly the political owner of any investment, and I hope that further, when we consider capital investment management, when we adopt the strategy, there will be sufficient wisdom to put the matter in the right direction and that the country will have something tangible from this asset, not only what we are accepting now, but also the urgent intervention recapitalisation that systems can even exist. It seems to me that all these discussions are about how bad everything is, how critical everything is, how nothing is right and nothing timely is slightly depressed. If I look at it globally, we're actually talking about numbers that are for the decimal. This is said not to be a big deal, but it is important and I hope that wisdom will prevail among all those who vote around the balance today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I find that there is still a desire for debate and I am opening the list. Please sign up. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It really bothers me that the Secretary of State has so much to say about some theory that state money is not possible and cannot help the economy. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State, what about state money? Is state money from the real economy? The only question is how economic you are to spend it uneconomically. What bothers me is saying you can't help businesses with this money. You can't act like it's your government money and you can do whatever you want with it. It can, but the results are greater unemployment, non-crediting the economy, underdevelopment, non-competitiveness, higher costs of the country than competing countries, bankruptcy, poor social conditions, negative economic growth, non-investment, poorer exports and so on. These are your results, your responsibility, government. If you do not feel that the economy needs to prepare competitive, business, tax and other conditions, then you are not thinking or doing the right thing. Please reverse this theory and try to participate in symbiosis with the economy. Government money is real-economy money, as the government has 85% of fixed costs available, only 15% of certain money, which, together with European funds, somehow turns it economically for further economic growth – that is all we want to change. You know, there are too many people who imagine and think about how to share from this common trough, we used to say how to distribute money. To this stage, to this small extent, money needs to be transferred to this state budget and this needs to be thought forward. That is why I said earlier that the 2012 budget can be very good; as in the company, you can make a balance sheet very well for one year, throw it a little bit, move some accounts forward and so on, but in two, three years trends turn around so you have nothing more to do. And today is the time to change that. The establishment of one job in the economy represents an enormous human, financial, economic effort. Those who are in government services and who have come directly from school benches and have never been in the economy must understand that the establishment of such new jobs is an extraordinary effort for management in companies and it is not just about shifting money from one pile to another. See, I was in the economy and it took about half a million euros each year for our company's salaries. 55% of this money was for taxes and contributions. That's what it says. It wasn't ours, from the company, but we gave it to the state. Less than €225 000 remained to pay workers, of which 20% went to VAT when they purchased certain materials in trade and so on, again to the state. I was very interested in how the country cared for half a million, for which each euro of 275 or 300,000 euros had to be provided each month. What's he doing with them? Whether in the company we may be entitled to get back part of this money that we have paid to the state budget for development eloquent with European funds. It applies mainly to such companies, which are export-oriented, with strong human potential, which have a strong developmental research activity, and if you know anything about the real economy – I feel that you are far from it to live in [[Incomprehensible]] The world or somewhere, as I explained – of 180 people there are 70 graduate engineers, 7 doctors of science. Then you know that we are not just a company dealing with a product that has very low added value. I know damn well what high added value is. The high added value is 55% of taxes and salaries to be collected together each month or if you want each year. And I don't care when you say, as a young expert, but probably you've never seen a company inside, dirty yourself or done anything — that the economy doesn't have to be helped. It is now necessary to assist the economy, especially the export economy, in order to increase its volume of business, to the extent that domestic businesses do not have enough work. This is what we want mainly with the ideas we give, how to do it. But don't act like state money is your money. State money is the money of everyone and the state, and the government has to distribute it economically in, I stress once again, economic growth. If we had a billion deficits every year for spending wages, spending, that's fucking wrong, we could have a billion deficits for new investments – that's the risk you're taking in the company. When you are in a poor financial situation, you take the risk of starting to produce competitive new products for high-tech, high-tech, high-tech, high-stakes knowledge and research that you have invested in for three or five years before, these are investments that you have invested, and the country must also help such companies in this area to make European and domestic money that is very scarce available almost nothing – now we have got 0.5 billion from the EIB to trigger it – we are actually releasing it into competitiveness and enterprise development. Please don't act like the state can't and can't help businesses. No one wants to give money for their wages, as it has been done in the past. This is really wrong, but it must help, for example, to transform the financial structure of businesses, the ownership structure, because companies are indebted, the banks are over-indebted, and today it has already been mentioned that an agency is being made. You even have this written in article 11 of the Bank's resolution that the State, through the SID of the Bank or the Agency, can assist in restructuring, financial restructuring, the equity restructuring of enterprises by converting the credit that companies have into equity if companies are willing to do so. This equity is then sold by the agency a little later to the same company back, if it comes out, had enough money, or sold on the market, or found a strategic partner. You have to understand this second step. I don't know how you don't understand that. If we don't do this, we won't have 40 bankruptcys per month, but we'll have 60. And instead of 440 thousand people working in the real sector, as we used to have 610 thousand, we're going to fall to 350 thousand. And these are the chickens that lay golden eggs for, if you like, the state budget. Those chickens that lay golden eggs are less than a year old. They're taxing existing jobs with new taxes, but I'll tell you that the next tax that comes will drive all the people on the streets. Because with 700, 800 euros you can't pay any more bills, and if you come back with a new tax, people will lose their freedom to live. Please speak differently about the economy and behave differently, if not, but come work for one year at a company to see how new jobs are being created, how they are being exported and how people are fighting from month to month for realisation to gain that income. However, it is not difficult for them to have a month, two or three to reduce their personal income by 20, 30%, especially those on individual contracts and others. And today there is such a real situation in all companies. He's poking all over the seams, even from Gorenje to I don't know where. Young, small and micro enterprises easily transfer capital and activity to another better business environment, while medium and large enterprises transfer only part of the activity elsewhere. This is probably what you read every day as part of a business activity is transferred to other business environments that are more business-friendly. We simply cannot work anymore because the burden on the product is so great that nothing can be tolerated. Nothing's invested, it means one big stagnation. Slovenia is in a zero situation and this needs to be put through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Zivkovic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Member Stepišnik, I don't know why you took my discourse so personally. I do not think that it is necessary to react too emotionally on these matters, but primarily to respond with a sound mind. I would like to say that I have never said that companies do not need to help, and all too often, by the opposition Members themselves and my colleagues, we face you trying to put words in our mouth, reading magnetograms and so on. Personally, I find this unnecessary, trying to do my job and perform my job mainly professionally, regardless of the political function, by law. However, I am trying to do it on a substantive basis, mainly professionally, and today I am primarily advocating these measures from a professional point of view. As far as helping businesses is concerned, once again, I have never said that there is no need for companies to help. On the contrary, the government is here today, at least as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, in particular to ensure that we launch this economy, not to impose additional burdens on it. Tax reform and decommissioning of the corporate part of the economy have also been adopted in this National Assembly, and you are talking about where tax policy measures are. This is where they got in. As regards the policy appeal to be taken by the Government regarding the allocation of funds, state resources, recapitalisations and similar matters. A practice that proved to be wrong and produced results in the reality that we are looking at today. Such a policy has been a policy since 2009. In 2009, GDP fell by 8%, a deficit of 1.7 billion euros. One year later, GDP fell again, and the deficit increased by an additional €1.7 billion or €1.5 billion. The country owed 19 % of the public debt to 44 % of the public debt. When we came to the Treasury, I didn't see that money in any deposit. No one saved him. There's no money like that. That money went somewhere. Where'd he go? He went to promote the economy, as you call it, and went for public sector wages, went for private consumption and went for investments. And these are the fiscal stimuli we have witnessed since 2009. What fruits have these fiscal stimulants produced? I don't know. When we arrived at the Ministry of Finance, we faced a deficit, as you know, of 6.4%. We have faced the fact that we have had a bunch of recapitalisations of companies in the past, which we are still saving today and are still in even worse economic positions than they were then, and I do not know, in fact, I do not know who is aware that this policy, which you are promoting and which you are discussing and discussing a number of times, is simply at this time and in this public financial situation and does not bear fruit in this economic situation. The economy is assisted by burdens; labour costs, contributions, taxes are burdened. You know, you've also pointed out that the cost of work is too high. This relieves the economy, increases the competitiveness of the economy and increases exports. You can't talk about the government raising exports. The government has nothing to do with exports. The government can't increase exports. We don't have a monetary policy anymore. How should the Government increase exports differently than to burden the economy of taxes and contributions and thereby reduce the cost of work? Otherwise, he can't. This is done through reform, pension reform, labour market reform, tax reform and tightening public financial spending. That's the way it's done. On the other hand, you cannot talk about the Government raising exports and doing something for the economy, and additionally, it should charge it with additional taxes and place these taxes on recapitalisations of companies that may go bankrupt in five years. Here you have to have one consistency, and you can recalculate things and look a little longer than just one step. However, as for Mr Stepišnik, my experience in the economy, I would ask that in the future, when you wish to have a personal discourse, you call and ask about them and show you that you have actually gone very blind in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Stanko Stepišnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Sir, the Secretary-General! Thank you very much, President for your word. Why are you converting words? And you know we're from the economy, too. I've been a director for 30 years, and I know demagogy and psychology, and I know everything. I worked in a large company, EMO Celje, when strikes were on every six months, and we managed this very well. How can you say that I said that the country would increase exports? The state doesn't have any company. What's he got? It can cause more than one disaster, or such poor economic conditions for exporters, so that the second year can be counted into just one or two more hands. Don't you know there's 40 bankruptcys every month? We are all trying, and we want to help you to stop this and also in insolvency law, bankruptcy legislation, and so on. Don't convert when the cameras are and make us look like fools, like we don't know what this is all about. You probably made yourself when you said the country was supposed to increase exports. The State can only help export companies to have competitive conditions such as Austrian, Italian, French, Hungarian companies to export their products, products or services to foreign markets. However, if exporters do not have or do not have the same conditions in Slovenia, this is very difficult. If they do not have the same credit conditions, if, as you say, the country of this part of the sector does not burden enough, then these export companies – the first thing that happens, as I told you earlier today, do not modify their products, which is a disaster, that is to say they do not invest enough money in research, development of education, training and so on, they do not have enough scholarships, if you want to, and so on. Secondly, when these companies stop renovating, then the competitive ability to stop investing is impaired and these soft forgives are no longer available. Young people are staying at the Employment Service and the country needs to see this. If the state does not see this and if it does not ask or establish such conditions with exporters as companies in competing companies in Austria, Germany, France, Italy, these are the countries in which we are most exporting and they are looking for cheaper suppliers every year – we are Slovenians one of the major suppliers of semi-producers to these countries – then they find another subcontractor in Turkey because it has better conditions. You know, today we need to put on the market as soon as possible for as low a price as possible. These are three elements on the market that each company must accept. That is how companies have to look down on themselves – and the country – to see that they do. I said we need to create conditions and that with our opposition, and if you want coalition ideas, when we're trying to help the government, it's going to happen as soon as possible. But it did, it didn't! I've written a program, a rescue program, and I don't know what else it's done! [[...]] And it has to be done in January if we want to draw on the money if we really want to make a better economic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I note that there is still a desire for a debate, so I am opening an application for a debate. Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you. I would like to respond to the debate by the Secretary, who has taken the view that the only saving position he sees in Slovenia is the position of capital. Of course, capital wants it to have as cheap a workforce as possible, I would prefer it to work for free. When that final objective was achieved, however, the fact is that the economy is already reminding us that saving in public consumption without serious calculations, what consequences this will have for the economy, is a very reckless act. [[...]] Today, in Slovenia, we are faced with the fact that the Ministry of Finance and, as a result, the Government has decided to reduce spending on those 3% of gross domestic product, as much as is desirable in good times, and does not wonder how it will achieve this or how it is clear that it will drastically reduce public consumption, while honestly speaking, the solution is only and only privatisation of everything we manage through public services in Slovenia. This feeling that there is not only a market interest in Slovenia, but that the Constitution also speaks of the social state, social rights, pensions guaranteed, that people have the opportunity to create their own and solve their problem – especially the state must have the sense to balance these interests. If these interests are not balanced, then there is a situation that we have today so that we do not talk more than we had to talk during the previous government when the global – I emphasise – global – economic and financial crisis also occurred in Slovenia. We have repeatedly heard that the previous government has caused a crisis. That's not true. This crisis is caused by the interest of capital at global level. This, which is why we are having discussions today, is due to the interest of capital at global level. However, how we solve these problems now in Slovenia, it is now clear that GDP could already be significantly higher than we have today. Exports could also be higher, rather than recording a drastic decline in exports if measures within the country were not so drastic in reducing public consumption. A simple economy in Slovenia has also found that it needs people working in public administration who receive suitable salaries to buy those products that the economy makes. And there's something else that's clear. People in the public sector tend to spend the most at home. So they have a direct impact on what economic growth will be and whether the economy will shrink or expand. What you want to tell us all the time during this government is that what really matters is that someone really concentrates their capital to privatise everything – I think it's easy to see that these people spend very little in Slovenia, spend most of it out there. That's what this is about right now. We point out in particular to the Social Democrats that such a policy as is currently being pursued is indeed a school case of neoliberalism. This is an unbalanced solution to the problems in Slovenia, including the solution to what we have in the constitution. We are a social state, and I hope that Slovenia will remain this way. This capital must also serve the social state, and that is all it is. Whether you understand it in this way or not, it is different, but the fact is that when we subsidized both working hours and businesses in the previous term to come out of the crisis, we maintained jobs. I'll just say it for a second. If the pension reform and the measures proposed to abolish work in black were adopted at that time, so that we could have little work and that students could have the opportunity to be paid into their pension system by then, the situation today would be balanced. This balance did not occur because this experiment, which was necessary, was misused and because people had not actually felt the crisis the way they did at the time. This debate is different today because people feel the crisis, and we must be aware that people are telling us that they are not responsible for the fact that this crisis has taken place in Slovenia and that the measures taken by the Government and what we are taking in the National Assembly have a great responsibility to balance these measures, to the extent that we can tax the economy, to the extent that we can then devote those taxes to public consumption. That's all this game is about. We're saying that you're overreacting here, that you're overreacting too much into the social state, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u61	We still have time to discuss. Any other wishes? I'm opening the application. We've got two reports. The first is Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really didn't intend to apply for the debate, but these last two debates that I listened to, Mr Stepišnik and Mr Veber, may be a bit over the edge. Of these two parties, we listen to two things all the time. Firstly, we must not save in this country because this reduces public spending and so on and so on. They are doing everything they can to do that in the area where it is absolutely necessary – if we want to create better conditions for the functioning of the economy, we need to start saving once in this country because we are spending 30% more than we are producing. We're spending 30% more than we're producing. Now you tell me how it is possible to create excellent conditions for the functioning of the economy under such conditions? How to take from the budget, if 30% is already in the budget in one way or another, so that we can cover the opposites necessary for the country to function. If we want to find a balance, it's perfectly logical that we have to first create the conditions to spend as much as we've created. I don't know if I understand if there's something wrong with me. And when I talk to my citizens and citizens, they all feel the same way that you can't spend more than you can produce. This can be done in the same way as in the previous mandate of 2009, 2010, 2011, when we have committed ourselves beyond any measure of normal. And one more thing, today Mr Stepišnik spoke about how important it is for businesses to be helped by the state to help businesses. I'm sure I absolutely agree. However, certainly not in this way when practice was in the past. Look at these big construction companies. What was going on in these construction companies? Let's open this up for once. Why were jobs falling? Why were these companies falling? Because they applied for a 30 % invitation to tender. Three agreed, raised the price, the 30% of the money that was in the state budget, instead of investing in new jobs, in new technology, put these workers abroad and then throw them back at the Employment Institute. What long-term, short-term benefits did this country and the citizens and citizens who agreed at the Employment Service? I'm asking you! And what benefit do we have from these recapitalisations of banks, what benefits, tell me? Somebody tell me what good it is. You know the benefits we have: that on the one hand we have the situation as it is today in public finances and in this country, and that on the other hand we have dozens of thieves who have stolen the whole country have emptied banks. This is when you say that we must continue to invest, that they will continue to steal, that individuals will empty everything that is possible in this country. What does the Slovenian people have to do with this? What does a Slovenian worker get out of this and so on? These are fundamental questions. On the one hand, we must create the conditions for us to spend as much as we produce, and only then, I am sure, will there be appropriate conditions for us to be able to create an economic climate that will be competitive in the global markets. However, I am absolutely sure that the economy needs to be helped, but in the way that European legislation allows us to do so, because we are not Slovenians in the Balkans. We are Slovenians, a union in the European Union, where the rules apply, when, under what conditions and how the country can help businesses through the budget. How then, Mr Stepišnik, who has been an economist and director for so many years, and I don't know what, he doesn't know that, and here he says such things that you want to throw up. How can he say something like that? Besides, I know a lot of people who give their workers money in envelopes — entrepreneurs who want to sell our minds here, how to work. Instead of giving the country the 20% they should give through what the country belongs to, they give the workers money in envelopes. You know what that means. You know very well what that means. Ordinary people in Slovenia know what this means. And they would like to tell us how to function and operate in this country for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much for such discussions and thank you very much for those people who are trying to teach us in this way, and on the other hand those who are doing exactly what should not be done in this country. Believe me, I do not claim that one of the Members and Members of Parliament is one who does this. But I say this is what's happening in this country. I hope that those economists who talk about how to work will also first comply with these rules that we are talking about here today and will not blindly attack without any argument. They know exactly what instruments the state has in place to help the economy, businesses, craftsmen and large businesses. They know exactly, and therefore I am very sad to hear such debates, which are really without any real argument going to pure demagogy, into pure demagogy. [[advertising from the hall]] Dear colleagues, when you spoke, I was completely silent, but I didn't say. So I would ask you to allow me to conclude in the way I imagined. So, I am sure that the current government is looking for everything that is possible to create the right conditions, that the future of this country will be better and better in the future, and that we will not have again than now 115 and 120 thousand unemployed in the Employment Institute. If you remember in 2008, when the government came together, the government of Janez Janša, how unemployed they were – I think there are between 55 and 57 thousand. When she took over the country's leadership, there were 100,000 of them, and now that the government has taken over the country's leadership, there were once again 120 thousand and more. These are the arguments that tell us about each individual how and what his qualities were when he led this country. But my interest was not to talk about it, my interest is to talk about what we're going to do for today and tomorrow. People live off what will happen today and tomorrow, not from what happened in the past, because we can no longer change what happened. I would expect all those who were there to realize today that there was also a lot of wrong and that we are not doing it again and we are trying together to find solutions that are in the best interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I assume Mr. Stephnik has a wish for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Stephnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u64	I don't have the habit of replicating, especially to people I respect deeply, but to throw up because of what someone says, then you can throw up what you say out of your mouth. Because what I say, I say with my conscience and with what I've experienced in my life. I didn't say anything like that that I couldn't do myself. It's always in the company, or wherever I've been in my life, and everything I've promised people, on sentences or anywhere I've done. But what I couldn't do, and I didn't promise. I always try to help, at least from what I say, you understand that I'm always trying to help. But I'm not used to getting into these fights because I think we're both too old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u66	And I'm not too old. Sir, with the conclusion of the debate, I agree with Mr Pojbič in essence. Let us see what went wrong, and let us learn from this that we will no longer make mistakes. History, as they say, is the mother of wisdom. Thank you very much for the Latin saying, colleague Franci. Look, I think we have some experience in Slovenian history that we need to learn from. To begin with, in view of the discussion by the colleague of the State Secretary and his question, how can the State encourage exports? To learn something from this experience, we can encourage exports. The State has mechanisms to promote exports. During the first period of the Janša government, the country apparently also forgot this function and, therefore, exports increased and imports increased. Slovenia has become a state of so-called structural dependence. During the time of the government of Borut Pahor, we fixed this relationship. Imports stagnated slightly and exports increased and Slovenia produced more, exports more than it imported during this period. By the way, when some people like to talk about how we spend more than we create – this is also the wrong assumption. This applies to public cash registers. This applies to the State budget. However, it does not apply to the Slovenian economy and the economy as a whole. At this point, according to the latest data we have, we generate 2 billion euros in surplus. We are creating more for 2 billion euros than we are spending in this country. Not in public cash registers, but in the economy as a whole. And in this respect, we are no longer a structurally dependent country. I would recommend to the Government, which claims that the country does not have the tools available to encourage exports, to read a possible textbook on this subject, we are building some on this. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u67	Mr. Franguez, time's up. Time has run out for the SD Group, but not for everyone else. We still have time to discuss this. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. The first thing we need to know when we talk about economics and when we talk about consumption is that, in accordance with the Constitution, we have a market economy with us and not a state-owned dirigist economy that we may have once had, and some at that time had a very large and larger role, especially when it came to redistributing money and therefore they were much more reputable in that environment because they were able to redistribute it, and perhaps to someone with a stake after that time. Today we have a market economy where supply and demand work and on the other hand we have globalisation. Unfortunately, at a time of globalisation, it is not possible to go to a domestic economy where it would determine to someone what and how to buy, especially if certain products are not such as to meet certain standards, both in terms of quality and price. Which means, in other words, that we are now living and spending goods produced in different environments in different countries and buying these goods – as my colleague Weber used to say that people in the public sector are buying more domestic goods and so on. You know, we all shop in stores where, once again, we have different goods, and that's at a time of globalisation. When we went to the European Union, we said and agreed with one basic concept of the European Union, this is free movement of goods and services. And here we have to, if we come from this, create and the country is the one that has to create the conditions for Slovenian companies to operate competitively. Of course, what it means to create conditions, something has already been said today. If we are talking about creating conditions, then we can say that this National Assembly adopted measures in the first half of the year setting out 100 % of the R & D facilitation. This encourages long-term businesses to allocate more resources for R & D – here I am thinking mainly of larger businesses, perhaps even a medium-sized company – and that this will be tax advantageous in this sense that they will also be competitive in foreign markets. Investment facilitation has increased, which means that companies are expected to invest more. And here's another basic question: who's the one who knows where to invest? A company or a country? Certain theories say that it is the country that must encourage this and this company and so on. The State must ensure the coordinated development and comparative advantages of individual industries or activities, if any, but for everything else the entrepreneur is the one who knows better where to invest than the Prime Minister, as any minister, as any mayor or sub-district, as any official. Here is the basic dilemma or perhaps a fundamental breakthrough in that perhaps still – because sometimes they said: no, the country is the one who knows the most, the country will be the one or not who will determine where to invest. Just like the export. If companies are burdened with certain taxes, and this is also where this year this government has changed the income scale, setting out the professions – these are the professions that create greater added value – burdened, then created favourable conditions for this or more competitive conditions for businesses. And this has happened here, although some say that these corporate measures may be too much and perhaps this is why the social state suffers. Probably due to the facilitation of research and development, due to investment incentives, probably also because the corporate income tax rate has decreased by 5% and gradually, the social state will not suffer and will not suffer. And if we're talking about spending, we're talking about spending the country or the public sector. According to the economy, depending on the vitality of the economy, this public sector may be too large or underorganised or too poorly organized or all these people and the population may receive too little services for what they are actually paying. It is also about improving the quality of these services; it is not just about having so many and so many employees in the public sector. In some other systems 50 years ago, there was full employment, but they put a man on every step of the store to watch people walk the stairs. This is not how employment is created, so we cannot go in this direction. If we are talking about government measures today, not just the budget and public finances, then we must also talk about these measures, which have already been adopted and which will be adopted. But another is the trust that investors will have in this country. This trust increases public finance measures, and we probably all want these investors to come. But these investors, if you want, foreign capital or domestic capital, will want to have the appropriate conditions that are comparable, and will have it in the market economy after paying taxes, with the profits it will create in Slovenia. We live in a market economy and live in globalisation, which is actually our situation and our place in the European, global economy and home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Earlier, I would just like to explain that, in this available time, we will be discussing the specific part of the budget, the development programme plan and then the full balance. No matter what, there's still time if you want to take your word for it. Anyone else in this general line of work? Mr. Stephnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to add a few more. In fact, we have free movement of goods and services, but we must not forget that with development, research, knowledge, training we can set entry thresholds or barriers for all products at a quality level, quality level, ergonomic level, food level, ecological level if you also want a safe level. And that is what brings the additional money we invest in knowledge and prevents products from entering our market that are not adapted to us by these high-quality classes. In fact, the state does not know where to invest, which company, since in my opinion no one is stupid enough to demand that the state say that it must invest in an undertaking precisely this part of the process in order to have an improved product and additional employment. The state invests in state infrastructure investments, which we all need, namely railways, roads, ports and so on, and businesses have entrepreneurial investments because they invest in a well-known part of the technological process that they have previously explored and developed to a higher level, increase their competitiveness and risk that they will achieve more returns on the market, more money and that this will also bring more prosperity. Now, for a short time, in the time of the Janša government, the economy was in debt for about eight billion — justified or somewhat unjustifiable — and in the time of the Pahora government, the state invested for eight billion. Both in Janša's government and in Pahor's government, this is some kind of over-indebted state, over-indebted enterprise. But the situation has so moved that we could not do so with the scale of the business, because of the crisis, by bringing it back. This over-indebtedness, both in the economy and in the country or if you want the banking sector, is a common problem and we need to solve it together. It would be nice, it would be good, it would be wise to save it at the same time, because this is the only way to start digging into positive economic growth and improve public financial conditions, improve public finances and improve the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? If not, then we are concluding this debate on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. The vote will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing, and I ask if anyone wants to discuss this work? I do not see any desire for discussion, so we conclude this part and at the same time note that no amendments have been tabled to this part of the rebalancing. As in the previous work, we will vote on this part of the proposal for a rebalancing in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today. We continue to consider the development agenda. I'm also asking here if there's any desire for a debate. There is no desire to discuss and we conclude this part. As with the previous two, the vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held today in the framework of the votes. We are now moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a rebalancing. Maybe there's a desire to discuss this part? Your time is up, I'm sorry. There is no wish for the discussion of others who still have enough time to discuss. The vote on the proposal for a rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting, as well as others, today in the framework of the votes. And by doing so, we also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a school food law. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law supplementing the School Diet Act, which is proposed by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, and the Proposal for a Law on School Diet, of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth decided, in its debate on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly would be guided by the draft law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. First of all, it's the government's turn. I ask the Secretary of State, Mrs Mojco Škrinjar, for an introductory presentation and explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In front of you is the School Diet Act, which systematically regulates school nutrition, even in a better and fairer way, includes many more children. Food is extremely important for children's development and intellectual work. At school, food has been regulated in various ways so far. The biggest shift took place in 2008 when very much money was given to this area and thus all high school students received a free meal. Later, this money was distributed to elementary school. Of course, we have also been involved in the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which has mixed matters slightly, and also in the Law on the Balance of Public Finances. In doing so, it is necessary to highlight some technical matters which are of great importance. In the elementary school, lunch is considered a small meal worth 80 cents. This is about a little snack served in the middle of the morning. In high school, however, this meal is much more calorie, larger, and richer. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has expressed the view that the current School Diet Act, which was later adopted by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, has amended and replaced part of the provisions without at the same time repealing individual provisions or harmonisation, has consequently become fragmented and very opaque and makes it very difficult for the users of this Act to understand the regulation and the necessary steps to enforce rights. With the new School Diet Act, we follow this opinion and the school diet in a comprehensive and transparent manner, while at the same time removing some administrative obstacles. In the transitional regime, we are regulating the possibility of using the additional funds adopted in the 2013 and 2014 budget. In the new law, the right to a school food subsidy is linked to the already acquired right to a child supplement. As the beneficiaries of the child supplement are inappropriately more than the beneficiaries of the school-food subsidy, the class and pupils range is growing considerably. The proposal extends 100% of the subsidy to the fifth grade of the children's allowance, which means about 88 000 pupils, allowing the acquisition of 100 % of the subsidy for lunch to an additional 14 000 pupils in primary schools belonging to the first class of the children's allowance, which has always been exposed to the most pressing problem. The proposal further provides a full subsidy for lunch for 13 thousand 300 pupils up to including the fourth grade of the children's allowance, a 70 % partial subsidy for 12 thousand 200 pupils, the fifth grade of the children's allowance, and a 40 % partial subsidy for 8 thousand 800 pupils. In addition to the recipients of the child supplement, the law also allows for the acquisition of a grant to full-year students who no longer have a child allowance, but are recipients of a scholarship and students who do not have these scholarships. The law also regulates the right to a lunch grant to a special group of young people who are in education institutions for children and adolescents with special needs and who are trained outside them. The proposal is procedurally regulated and coordinated with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in terms of obtaining the right to grant for future new beneficiaries. The social work centres will, on the date of the entry into force of the Act, issue, on an official basis, a decision on the right to a subsidy for lunch or lunch. The beneficiaries of the applications will not have to be sent. This law therefore solves the problems that arise primarily from the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and which have not been adequately addressed by the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. The government has listened to the demands and the law that we are proposing today is the fruit of a few months of reflection on this problem, and it is also the fruit of discussions with a view to making the National Assembly [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] can provide as wide a support as possible. [[...]] Today, the text is on your desks and I sincerely want it to be adopted today, so that it can be put into effect as soon as possible, especially in the interests of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the bill. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u74	Your Honor, very nice to meet you. Slovenia is still facing an economic and economic crisis that is known practically in all segments of society, and especially in families. What may be very painful for us is the fact that in 2011 the risk level of child poverty for the first time in the history of modern Slovenia exceeded the overall level of risk of poverty. Alarming information from schools, civil society organisations and also the media has started to come to our attention that the situation of children in 2012 is further exacerbated by reduced access to school nutrition. In our view, in 2012, two legal amendments, namely the amendment of social protection legislation, the ZUPJS, which, in order to prevent the accumulation of aid, imposed a series of social protection rights and thus taking into account all revenue as a basis for calculating the eligibility of higher order rights – school nutrition is the sixth right by type – and even more so the implementation of Article 141 of the Public Finance Balance Act, which abolished a school nutrition subsidy of two-thirds of the price of a meal for all children, except for those of the poorest families. Research has shown that in our society, children who could be placed in lower-middle families are also severely at risk because they are above the eligibility threshold for a few euros, and they are in a worse position than poorer children who are helped by society to resolve their social distress. Something that can be reflected in child hunger is unacceptable for a modern social state, as hungry children cannot develop their potential and work equally with their peers. The task of the social state – and the name of the social state – is also to act Slovenia – by its measures and not by means of charitable initiatives and solutions to allow access to school meals for children from those families where the cost may be a major problem for them. For children are part of the family and share its destiny. That is why we prepared a supplement to the School Diet Act in the SD Group more than a month ago. We propose extending the cycle of children who will be entitled to a school diet subsidy. In changing the law, we were led by the desire to provide all children with access to at least one meal a day at a time of learning and to do so in a way that will not be additionally burdened by social work centres. Therefore, we have proposed that the amount of the subsidy for lunch should be linked to the child supplement classes, in order to maintain a maximum of 100 % of the subsidy for children whose income per family member does not exceed EUR 412, 83% of the subsidy for children belonging to the fifth grade of the child supplement and where the income per family member does not exceed EUR 520 and 67% of the subsidy for children placed in the sixth grade of the child supplement or their income does not exceed EUR 630 per month. We can say that, with such a change in the School Diet Act, we do not grant new rights, but we are only restoring the right to a meal subsidy for most children, but not for children from families they estimate to be able to do so to the level that the School Diet Act 2010 has imposed. Only with the adoption of amendments to the 2013 and 2014 budget of almost 24 million proposed by members of the opposition, the Positive Slovenia Group and the SD, and supported by the coalition in the decision-making process, were the conditions and sufficient means to implement the law, as we have prepared. Even though our law will not continue to be supported, we are pleased that the Government's School Diet Act summarizes the key substantive solutions that we have written down in our law. This issue is not an issue of prestige; it is a common understanding that too much damage has been caused in this year's implementation of the way and regulation of school nutrition, more damage than the benefits of moving in the wrong direction as soon as possible. Since everything shows that we will unanimously support the proposed solutions, I also welcome this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u76	Your Honor! I also wish all of them a very good greeting on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which, at its 20th emergency meeting on 20 December this year, was discussed by the Group of Members and Members, signed by Dr Andrejo Črnak Meglič, and the Proposal for a School Food Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Rules of Procedure allow the possibility of considering both proposals at the same time in such a case, which the Committee decided and decided after the introductory debate that the follow-up procedure would be guided by a law of which the Government is proposing. A key argument for such a decision was that this law also regulates the issue of lunch, which is of particular importance to children. Finally, following the adoption of about 10 amendments, two decisions were adopted to confirm the text of the amended amendments on the basis of the Government's proposal for a School Diet Act submitted by the Government, and that the proposal for a Law on Supplements to the School Diet Act by the members of the group and Members is not suitable for further consideration. All decisions concerning the amendments and both final decisions were taken in the wake of the obstruction of SD and Positive Slovenia. In view of the obstruction in this case, and in explanation only that an initiative had already been announced on my part at the outset to try to reach consensus, it was probably rejected at a given time by the poor experience of the applicants, but it was later clearly achieved in the negotiations and, on behalf of the Committee, I propose that such an updated text, together with the two amendments proposed today by the signatures of all parliamentary political parties groups, should also be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that in the National Assembly, despite all the bad and insurmountable events that have taken place in recent times, we can conclude 2012 by considering a proposal for a new Law on School Diet, whose solutions will make many students, students and parents at least partly attract a smile to their faces. And why is that? The proposed School Diet Act follows a solution from the budgets adopted for the next two years, after which there is an additional €23.7 million on the budget line Food for students, students and students. I am pleased that, in addressing this point, Members can show whether we come from a coalition or opposition, that we are willing to cooperate and together look for solutions to the issues that improve the situation of our citizens, in this case of our greatest wealth, this is a child. We have already shown this in the adoption of the amendments to the budget, when we have decided to devote more resources to school nutrition, and I am sure that we will also prove this today in the vote, both with regard to the amendments tabled and, of course, with regard to the bill itself. Let me return briefly to the content of the proposed law. The essential changes that this entails therefore relate to the area of subsidisation of school meals and lunches, since, according to the new free lunch, every student will be entitled to a benefit where the average monthly income per person found in the Children’s Supplement Decision does not exceed 53 % of the net average monthly salary. In the case of students, on the basis of the proposed amendment of all parliamentary groups, a full subsidy up to and including the 4th grade of the child supplement or up to 42 % of the net average monthly salary is proposed, for the 5th grade of the child supplement a subsidy of 70 % of the meal price and for the 6th grade of the child supplement a meal will be subsidised at the rate of 40 % of the meal price. In practice, this means that in a five-member family with three schooling children or adolescents, monthly income can be around €2 000 and all children will still receive free lunches. In the event that all three children are still in primary school, the monthly family budget can be almost EUR 2 000 600, but all children will receive free school meals. In this case, however, students will be excused for the partial subsidy of the meal, which will bring financial burden on the parents of some 13 000 600 students in the 5th and 6th grades of the children’s supplement. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, this saves an extremely large number of Slovenian pupils and students, including those coming from the so-called medium-sized population, thus ensuring equal conditions for the development of learning and other skills and improving awareness of the importance of healthy nutrition. The proposed subsidy scheme also increases the number of free lunch beneficiaries in primary school, to which almost 17,000 pupils will be eligible after the new one, while the proposed law also grants full or partial grant to about 11,000 full-year students who receive a state grant and who are not entitled to a child allowance. As a positive solution to the proposed law, it should also be pointed out that the right to a subsidised school diet is to be determined on an official basis, since the Social Work Centres will issue decisions on the basis of a decision on a child supplement or a decision on a state grant. Reinvestment of applications with the exception of those which do not have one of the above-mentioned decisions in order to make it necessary. As I mentioned at the outset, I am pleased that we are concluding the year with a hearing, and I hope that even with the unanimous adoption of a law that will give our citizens something to our children. Let this be a good year's journey to show that politicians are willing to step together and find common solutions that help our citizens, especially children, at least partially to improve the quality of life. Let the adoption of the new School Diet Act be our New Year's gift to all those who need our help and attention even more in these times. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone, Secretary of State in particular! I would like to shorten the small position of our parliamentary group, because both Madam Secretary of State and Mrs Črnak Meglič have moved the law in detail, as well as Mr Prevc has touched on all the essential issues in detail, so as to save a little time. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance of healthy eating habits in early childhood, and we therefore agree that in the light of the healthy development of children and adolescents it is essential to find solutions that will allow at least fundamental, equal opportunities for all children. Member States and Members of the DeSUS agree that it is imperative to regulate the current unanimity of primary school and student nutrition, allow all students and students to have access to school meals, especially those coming from socially weaker environments, and eliminate unnecessary administrative procedures. And all this present law, the marriage text brings. Given that school nutrition funds have increased significantly over the next two fiscal years, it is also appropriate to use this money for these purposes. The adoption of new legislation allows for nutrition for a much larger number of pupils and students, this has also been detailed. It is important to increase the number of beneficiaries of lunch subsidies in primary school and to allow full-year pupils to benefit from subsidies. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that, both in primary and secondary schools, such conditions should be provided for the provision of lunch and lunch, which will not lead to further deliberation and that all basic and equal opportunities for healthy development are available for young people in education. That is why we will support the School Diet Act in the DeSUS Group. We will also support the amendments of all parliamentary groups, and I would also like to add here that I am pleased that we have drawn species together in this area and that we are all of the same opinions that this law needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! The diet of children and the growing youth has more specialities, and this is why they devote a lot of attention to it in all social systems, including us. Slovenia is one of the countries in the world that devotes special care to the school diet of children, which we support in the new Slovenia. The School Diet Act regulates the right of pupils and students to a school food subsidy, the amount of the subsidy, the conditions for granting the subsidy and the supervision of the implementation of this Act. This bill will further improve the school food subsidy scheme introduced by the Government in 2008 and has received positive responses mainly from parents and professions. We will also correct the mistake of the former government, which has made the system worse. In the broadest sense, all meals, breakfasts, lunches, lunches and afternoon meals offered by schools are regulated, with special emphasis on the lunch which the school is obliged to organise for all students. Schools should take into account guidelines for nutrition in educational establishments that define both educational and health aspects of school nutrition. The law also obliges schools, institutions for the education and education of children and young people with special needs, student homes, student homes, and centres for school and school activities to take account of the guidelines. In Novi Slovenije, we expose a number of managers, professionals and teachers of Slovenian primary schools who constantly care and warn parents about the possibility of subsidising food for their children and invite them to report their children. The system allows subsidies for a wide range of beneficiaries and we are responsible for ensuring that there are no hungry children between us. Let me add the experience of field visits by the New Slovenia Group when parents and teachers remind us that in many cases students and students reject the food offered by the school. We also have to deal with this problem, including schoolchildren and parents. In New Slovenia, we also welcome the agreement of the parties of the Social Democrats and the coalition on the solution of the law, which is proof that we know and can work together. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Jožef Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! That in our country, children are hungry, not since yesterday. For some time now, this problem has been highlighted loudly in many organizations and institutions. However, despite warnings and opposition from the opposition, the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act has led to a number of anomalies in all areas of the social state and thus increased the poverty threshold. Instead of addressing the causes, we must now deal with the consequences of wrong government decisions. In Positive Slovenia, you are constantly reminded that investments in knowledge and development can lead us out of the crisis, that we need to adopt laws to speed up the investment cycle and thus create new jobs, which would accelerate economic growth. You, however, continue blindly and deafly to save in all areas, and most acutely in the field of education. If you really cared about people, children and youth in the coalition, the budgets that had already been adopted, without the voice of Positive Slovenia, would be different and would not break the public education system. With the adoption of the opposition amendment to the budget, we have only mitigated the consequences that would further affect the university, science and research. With the adoption of the amendment of Positive Slovenia for school meals, we have opened the possibility that today we can even consider the proposal of the School Food Act. With the money provided in the budget, we can ensure that children and young people are not hungry at least in school. But it is sad, but truly, to know that in Slovenia we have to adopt a law to prevent hunger in the 21st century. It's an alarm that there's something really wrong with us in our country. Many children, and these are more from day to day, can't wait for school lunch because they come to school hungry to not even talk about lunch. School management and school staff in various ways manage to provide children with food, but within the scope of the opportunities they have. They have less and less room for manoeuvre because the financing of schools is not as regulated as it should be. While the Ministry covers the costs for employees' salaries, this represents the largest item, it also covers a large part of the costs for programmes, not in full. And that's why schools and parents have to cover the difference between individual programs. However, the material costs and maintenance of the facilities will have to be taken over by local communities and this is not properly regulated by law. Schools are still too dependent on the good will of mayors and municipal councils. There are many cases where schools do not provide sufficient funds to cover material costs, delay grants, and require administrators to act as managers. Because of this school, they do not have the means to deal adequately with the nutritional problems of those families whose parents cannot afford to pay their meals. In Positive Slovenia, however, we still believe that many more children are hungry at home than at school, because parents still somehow afford at least lunch and pay programs so that their children do not get off the average. Then there is a shortage of funds for adequate meals at home. During the growing-up period, healthy, varied and energy-efficient rich food is extremely important, but many families are unable and unable to provide their children. That is why school food, lunch and lunch are such an important member of the youth feeding system during school hours when the burden of the child is high. It is therefore essential that we take into account in the proposal for a law the fact that there are increasing numbers of families whose payment of food for children in school, lunch and lunch represents a cost that greatly affects the family budget. By adopting the amendment with which we have earmarked 23 million for food, we have the opportunity and the opportunity to extend and increase the range of those eligible for free lunch and subsidised lunch. In our country, we must not allow and allow children to suffer hunger. It is only acceptable that someone does not like a meal or lunch and rejects it or that any day is less, but we must not allow children to be hungry because of the poor social conditions in the family. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we are pleased that you, the Government and the coalition, have listened to the opposition's warnings and prepared and have aligned with the opposition two amendments to extend the range of beneficiaries to free lunch and subsidised lunch. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we will give support to the Proposal for a School Diet Act only if the amendments mentioned are also supported. Although we are only considering this agreement for two fiscal years, it is still somehow acceptable for us, but of course we cannot talk about the system law, because the system law would solve the matter for a longer and broader period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill and the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Where there is will, there is also a way to go, and this law is proof that, in the event that there is really an attempt to find solutions that are primarily for the benefit of our children, it is appropriate to write down the right solutions. It is not true that this law solves the problem of our children, that they are hungry, as our predecessor stated, because the School Diet Act was passed in 2010. It means that we have already had food in our schools, but on the basis of some other laws that have also been passed, this system has introduced inconsistencies and some anomalies, which have caused injustice and possibly less access to food in schools for social purposes, notably the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which was adopted in 2011, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources. These two laws were then the reason why certain solutions or provisions had ceased to apply, and also the rights under established certain rights were no longer regulated in this way. Moreover, since 1 September 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act has made this area even more transparent and fragmented, making it difficult for users to understand the arrangements and procedures for the enforcement of these rights. These were the key reasons why we now have here a new School Diet Act regulating the rights of pupils and students to a school food subsidy, the level of the subsidy and also the conditions for granting this subsidy and the supervision of the implementation of this law. In the first part, the law defines the diet provided by primary and secondary schools to pupils and students on the days when education takes place and is necessary for educational activities. In a broader sense, all the meals offered by schools are regulated, with special emphasis on lunch, which the school is obliged to organise for all pupils or pupils. In the second part, the law regulates the subsidisation of school lunches and lunches. From the State budget, funds are provided to subsidise one meal per day to a student or student who is regularly educated and comes from a socially less stimulating environment. Income limits and other circumstances for determining eligibility for additional subsidies are laid down by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the regulated diet of children and the growing youth is extremely important and should be given special attention, because this is a long-term investment, because if our young people, of course children, and even after puberty, adopt healthy eating habits, then, at the age of proper nutrition, there will be significantly fewer health problems, which this irregularity also brings. That is why we will further regulate this area by means of this law and will also support the amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, both signed by the opposition and by the coalition as well as by the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Ambassadors and Members of the Social Democrats have long been concerned about the social distress of the growing work of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We are particularly concerned that poverty is also growing in the most vulnerable group, this is among children. We have therefore warned the government of the inadmissible phenomenon of hunger among them, as also reported by NGOs. It was obvious from the coalition lines that this is left-wing propaganda and the pigeon sting on the plate is just as unacceptable as those about zombies at demonstrations and coaches at the national elections. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has also held its head in the sand for a long time and, in response to parliamentary questions and discussions, claimed that they had sufficient leverage in schools and social work centres to intervene if necessary. However, this did not convince us, so we drafted a law by the Social Democrats, which was imported to the home committee because a government law was introduced into the legislative procedure. This is supposed to be a system law and a better solution than a proposal. By the way, it should be better because the government has free more information and professional backing. So we have a system law ahead of us following an emergency procedure. Members and Members of Parliament and the Legal and Legislative Service were given only 24 hours to study the law, and the amendments were only given at the express request of the opposition. It revealed that their only intention was to ensure that the articles were open for second reading at a meeting of the National Assembly. The Secretary of State, however, ensured that the law had been born since September, but why such an urgency and non-compliance with business regulations. Social Democrats are strongly opposed to such behaviour. Why did the government not foresee an increase in school nutrition funds already in the draft budget? Why did the opposition have to force her to do this by introducing amendments to the budget and bills? The proposed law actually follows the 2010 law and gives nothing new. The proposal also followed this, and not with the ZUJF amended provision, by changing the range of beneficiaries and fixing the subsidy tied to the categories of recipients of the child supplement. Not only in this law, but in a series of laws, the Social Democrats point out that the urgency cannot be an excuse for the absence of thorough previous analyses and simulations of effects. No government, no coalition majority can admit that the ZUJF has included those they claimed would not be deducted. Let me remind you that even in 2008 the law adopted in the 2009 budget did not have the resources foreseen for the increased scope of rights and it was then necessary to provide for a rebalancing. He did the same for the 2010 budget. We do not deny that the Law on the Exercise of the Rights of Public Resources has also abolished any transfer to whom or caused delays in the allocation of social transfers, but it should be pointed out that preventing the accumulation of social transfers when the aid of the State has not reached the most eligible and the aid is due to imprudentness, has received general support. We are therefore waiting for the analysis prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to be followed by a proposal for amendments and a supplement to this law. However, we do not agree to an attempt to shoulder the responsibility of this law alone, because the Public Finance Balance Act has reached wider and deeper. At the Committee's meeting, we tied support to the law to the adoption of the amendment to Article 14, which would extend the range of beneficiaries. The amendments of all parliamentary parties to Articles 25 and 26 have now been tabled, which is a nomotechnically poor solution, but our objective has been achieved. In particular, I stress that the Social Democrats do not express any particular great joy at the time of the adoption of this law, because a responsible and smart government would ensure that such a law should not be admitted to the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič is also on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u90	Your Honor! With effect from 1 January of this year, two laws have been in force which are new to regulate social transfers in Slovenia; the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. The aim of the laws adopted is to introduce a more transparent and user-friendly system of social transfers, which will allow those who really need it to receive assistance while preventing the exploitation and abuse of the system. The public has already pointed out some of the negative consequences of this social reform, which are particularly reflected in the higher risk of poverty for pre-school children, schoolchildren and students, and in the lower for students and older people. ZUJF also contributed to this. It is certainly time to make a thorough evaluation of the effects of these changes and find answers to questions about who is worse and who is better, what are the actual net effects on the state budget and on income distribution in society. While we do not yet have these evaluations, we can correct those segments that in practice appear particularly attractive. One such is the subsidisation of school nutrition, which has been specifically exposed and duly amended in the adoption of the 2013 and 2014 budgets. This is how we are considering today the government proposal for the School Food Act, which regulates school nutrition in primary and secondary schools in a comprehensive way, with the aim of enabling access to quality school meals for all pupils and students. The solutions offered to both students and students from socially less stimulating environments provide free or cheaper meals. Thus, up to a full subsidy for lunch in the coming year, half of all primary schoolchildren and a third of pupils will be eligible for free lunch. In the Civil Gazette, we support the bill mainly because the law systematically regulates the organisation of school meals and allows free or subsidised lunch or lunch for all those students and students who really need it. At the same time, the National Gazette estimates that we have a very complex system of implementation of social transfers for beneficiaries and beneficiaries. Therefore, we will continue to strive that parents and children will be able to exercise their rights in a simple and transparent manner, for example, in a similar way as this has been done in income for a long time. According to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, comprehensive solutions in this direction are already being prepared for all social transfers. Since we are committed to cooperation and patient dialogue in the National Gazette, we are particularly pleased that we have shown unity and great willingness to find an acceptable solution to this content, both by the Government and by all the Members. This time, we all had a common goal, and this is to provide subsidised school nutrition to those who need it most as soon as possible. My colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that both the amendment and the bill will also receive your support. They have this support in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. On the table, you have the amendments to the three articles, to the 25th, 26th and 30th articles, and I first put to the debate article 25 and the amendment signed by all the coalition groups of Members, as well as both opposition groups. Just a moment. I can see that the desire for a debate is great, so I'm opening the time for an application. [[...]] Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support both the law and the amendment of almost all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, coalition and opposition, so my procedural proposal in this respect will be that we have forgotten or perhaps you have forgotten only by mistake or because of the time-consuming difficulty of inviting the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities in our National Assembly, because I believe that Members of the National Community will also support this law. So that in the future, when we are so united in a matter of course, we invite all 90 Members and Members to a proposal, and I hope that this will happen again, so that we can come together and start to solve the problems more unitedly in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. On the so-called non-ideological themes, after we were awakened by protestors, people – I stress people – can be united and that is good. If this is the law governing the diet of children, it is so much better and, of course, more beautiful. In one of your performances, if you remember, here in front of you at the budget and the fight for the amendment that he returned or gave money for the diet of the children, I said that, as an opposition MP 20 years ago, I was able to negotiate then the majority of Demos to support the student diet subsidy. Even today, of course, I am grateful to the then Higher Education Minister, Mr Wenceslas, and to the then Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Peterlet, for having listened to the requests of the schooling children and their parents. Even today I am in some way grateful for the benevolence of the ruling coalition, that it has nevertheless listened, not only to the people out there, but also to the opposition here inside, and that it has signed or that we have signed the amendment together. The sad story is that if you remember those children from the Primary School of Livada, where it was in 2011 – I think that the principal was at the time saying – 247 decisions on the free diet of children were granted and because in my opinion we introduced that law and censorship and all the social assistance of the parents were included in the price in 2012 out of these 247 children who had free nutrition, only 17 children received this decision. 230 children stayed outside, and then teachers from the lunch line had to bring out the children of those who had not paid for lunch. And I am therefore pleased that today's amendment is going in the direction that this censorship is rising – I think from 43 to 52 or 53% – that it is a progressive scale. Still, I think it's nice that these kids can stand in line now, and they can have lunch. President, I will be happy to support the amendment of all parliamentary groups of this National Assembly and the amendment of the School Food Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u96	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members, representatives of the Government! And I'm gonna say it myself, and I'm gonna say it at this point, and I'm gonna support the amendment and the marriage. I just want to remember – I will not say anything ugly, nothing to fear – that we Social Democrats are the third Friday in November, this is the day when an action called the Traditional Slovenian Breakfast takes place in Slovenia, and this is the day that is also marked as the holiday of Slovenian food, we have put into the process of amending the School Food Act. The goal was to ensure that there were no hungry children in primary schools. At that time, the Social Democrats, as a very positive signal, understood the opinion delivered by the competent Minister, Mr Andrej Vizjak, immediately upon our submission, that the Ministry also knows that the problem exists and that we will seek a common solution. Our message was simple, too. We don't insist on our own form of law. We don't care what law is going to be passed. We just want there to be no hungry kids at school. At the time of the budget negotiations, this happened one night when we negotiated with a coalition party and negotiated additional money for school meals, we knew that things were going in the right way and that we had tabled all the parliamentary groups today, except for the minority that we had forgotten – here, too, the apology on my part, was very urgent – shows that we understand at least one part of what the social state means. The social state does not simply mean that children are not hungry. It means a lot more. This action today, the well-respected coalition, gives us some hope that we will teach you about what a social state is in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I will uphold the law myself and all the amendments to this law. The amendment to Article 25 is a compromise between the opposition proposal and the government proposal, but more than that, it is important that Slovenian schoolchildren and students obtain a solution. Everything good for Slovenian youth should have the majority support in this temple of democracy. Other added value of these amendments are administrative burdens. What the administration already has, don't ask citizens to do. This was the thesis introduced in the Slovenian public administration by our President, Dr Virant, and with these amendments we are also doing this in practice. Let this law also be an incentive for us to find compromises and common language several times with the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We're still at Article 25. Does anyone else want to discuss this article or this amendment? Here you go, Mrs. Janja Attack.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! And representatives of the government, welcome! Under Article 81, 21, paragraph 7, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education and on the basis of the School Diet Act, funds shall be provided for the subsidisation of school nutrition. The School Diet Act, which was adopted in 2010 as a complement to and extension of the 2007 Law on the Subsidy of Students and apprentices – by the way, almost all the discussers of the opposition voted against this law. So I can't talk about some degradation of the social state and I don't know what else. This Act is amended by virtue of the provisions of eligibility for an additional subsidy, which relates to the already authorised right to a child allowance by the adoption of the ULJF, and has been reduced for some families. Now, as a result of the change in censorship, the subsidy beneficiary base is expanding. The number of children has certainly increased in these difficult situations. That is why the Ministry has not remained insensitive in its consideration of the proposal by the Group of Members and Members to amend the law. In a way, we can say that the voice of the street has been indirectly heard, as we can monitor the promotion of the spread of the social state and the increase of funds in all areas over the past month. Up to a general subsidy of a third of the price of lunch, 72.7% of primary school students and 77.6% of high school students are excused and that these are also limited to the public budget, and we are all aware that this behavior would also be truly understood, and I think it is a little less. By amending the law, if adopted, funds will be provided for 2013 and 2014 in the Ministry's financial plan of EUR 23 000 700, which is a good amount to alleviate the social situation of children in the most unpredictable households, as well as to reduce differences between children. In doing so, I would like to pay a little more attention to the culture of nutrition and modesty. I would like to point out "modest" in relation to the importance of the relationship with responsible food treatment. There is also one interesting thing that I would like to point out – the original meaning of the word modest is one that is kept within the framework, restrained, one who knows borders and frames. This also reflects our responsibility as an individual and also as parents to the use of public funds, which is the responsibility of parents and honesty in the exercise itself and, last but not least, in the feeding itself, in the act itself and in the rational conduct of children in educational institutions. This also flies to the observations of teachers, professors, food organizers and so on when parents, in their absence, cannot contribute through their education and intervention during the act itself. In addition, I would like to point out when we are already in control that school has to check the satisfaction of students or students and their parents with school meals at least once a year. This is probably linked to day-to-day surveillance. My question is if it is possible to abolish the subsidy when it comes to finding a longer irresponsible treatment of food in a particular student. At this point, I would also like to share with you a philosophy with the motto "Good, clean and fair". The so-called "low food" movement, founded by Carlo Petrini from 1987 in Paris. The move points to the need to preserve local traditions, regional culinary traditions that serve local crops, thus promoting sustainable development with small producers. I would like to point out only that we are aware of the responsible treatment of food. We are all aware that some children are hungry, but there is no need to exaggerate. It is important to be aware of this fact about the modesty and responsible treatment of food, for the earth also has its limits on the resources it gives us. On earth, we produce 12 billion inhabitants of food, even though there are only 7 billion of us, of whom billions are hungry. This is said to be 45% of food thrown away and poor, which is said to be a source of loneliness, alone, does not mean to be modest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u101	Look, Mr. Han, you haven't discussed and you can't have a replica, so we stick to the agenda. You can't just replace the replica for procedural – I think we can be so respectful. First of all, I'm going to give the floor to the Secretary of State who asked for it earlier. Here you are, Madam Secretary of State, and then we will proceed. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I would like to say that there is actually a need to highlight here all the lunches that students will receive. I said in my presentation earlier that we have two kinds of meals; the meal in high school is much more calorie or larger. And so with this solution, when we bring lunch to primary school, we really help those most at risk. In doing so, I would also like to express my satisfaction over the whole course of the matter, as I mentioned earlier, how much the School Diet Act has changed, how this system has changed over the years and through the difficult circumstances of the crisis, and today we are here where we are. I am pleased that today the budget is richer for this money, which we can devote to children, i.e. students and students. I am also pleased that we have managed to achieve such a level of debate in the negotiations and in the professional discussions, truly professional discussions where some prestige withdraws from the profession, where the sense of the real needs of the people withdraws, so that we have found a nice professional dialogue with the opposition. That is why I would like to have a conversation today, although in my modesty I should not interfere with your conversations in the National Assembly, but I would like this conversation to be conducted today in a spirit in which we have successfully started for a joint, good project that will bring all good things to our children. So it will be my best feeling today, if this law is passed, and as the conclusion of the work of the National Assembly this calendar year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Mr. Jew, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u104	Because I was talking about hunger and I have a feeling that the Member of Parliament was talking about data that I did not tell myself. Perhaps despite all of this — there are many things that we can make up in this National Assembly, but not all of them. At the moment there are 7 billion people in the world, I am talking about official data from the United Nations. Seven billion people. According to official data, there are billions of them hungry and in one part of the world, and Europe as the richest part of the world, we throw about one third of the food into the basket. And now, honourable Member, please explain to us where we produce 12 billion food. In no data, I quickly remember the numbers because I love them, in no data so far in my career of 45 years, I have not read that we produce food for 12 billion people on earth. How did you get this information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakič, you also have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear young fellow Attack, I would just like to say that my colleague Lisca, who tweets what you have said publicly – you do not listen if you do not know what this is about. The Law on the Subsidy of Diagnetic Nutrition was in this Parliament twice, in 2008 and 2010. I left Parliament in 2004 and therefore you cannot tell me that all the debaters, the opposition discussers we spoke about – I suppose only from Positive Slovenia spoke to me and my colleague Kavtičnik that we voted against the student diet subsidy. You can, you'll take the word and you'll prove to me who voted for and against. But the basic law, 2007 and 2010 — I was not and cannot take responsibility in the National Assembly. However, I am the one who initiated a student diet subsidy and I have been fighting since 1990 to ensure that students and students and children in primary schools receive free nutrition, in order to devote themselves to what they are doing in school – learning, not waiting with big eyes for the main break to ring and see whether they can go to lunch or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Now I ask who else wants to debate, because we are going to open a new round of debates. I think it's more of a wish. I am opening time for discussion, still on Article 25. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u108	I would not lose my word on the law, which, I am sure, would not have been in this National Assembly if the Social Democrats and the opposition had not started this action, as Mr Židan said, on the day of food in Slovenian kindergartens. [[...]] And it didn't matter to us the Social Democrats who was signed under this law, but that this law came into practice. That is why we are pleased to find this morning that our Andreja Črnak Neglič has managed to align in some way with the applicants, in this case the Government. I know very well that the representatives of the government said a week ago that the law should be withdrawn, that the government should pass the law. That is what the Social Democrats would have done to achieve, and this is the enforcement of this law. And once again, Mrs Attack, in 2008 or 2010, the Student Nutrition Act – none of the Social Democrats' Group voted against, none. Thank God there are documents for that, so I'd like an apology from your address. We didn't vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. If, at the beginning of today, it showed that the matter was really harmonised and that it would go like a running lane all the time without charges, without throwing the pollen under the feet, obviously we are also not able to accept it on a peaceful path without discussion, without pointing the finger at each other and without acknowledgment for unnecessary, I don't know, great achievements. I say that it is the responsibility of the policy, all 90 of us sitting here in this National Assembly, to support, without further discussion, such laws as are good for our citizens and citizens. You will remember – I am sorry that I do not have a magnetogram from the session when we adopted the 2013 and 2014 budgets. That's when you tried to convince me in every way in the SDS that there are no hungry children in our country. Some of you even made fun of my discussions. By 23 p.m. in the evening, we discussed the meeting where the opposition Members fought to show you that the situation in the field of hunger or nutrition in schools is serious. By 11:00 p.m. tonight! It was good that the next day the street happened because you might have listened. Hearing that there are times when it is good to do things differently than you are generally sure of. And you know when a member of the government's coalition is trying to convince me that today it's good to talk about modesty in food, in dieting children. That's when I seriously wonder about common sense. We have data, I will provide you with data; in Slovenia there are particularly vulnerable children or when we talk about vulnerable groups of children, the data shows that the difference between rich and poor is significant. 17.3% of children in single-parent families are disadvantaged, 32.9% of children in lower education and 43.6% of children in single-parent families, where both parents are unemployed. I will not talk about official data, the level of poverty in our country, more than 13%. Poverty is forecast to deepen further and figures are expected to be around 20% in the second year. That's the data, the social council's announcements. And when we, when we are all united, coalition and opposition, have to adopt changes in the field of school food subsidies, someone in this House says that we must all learn together about modesty in nutrition, you know, and then I don't care. When we adopted the 2013 budget, I told a story that was officially published on Val 202. The story or desire of this mother who presented her life story or the story of her family — she has three teenage children who go to school. Her only wish was for her children to have at least one warm meal at school. Will you also teach this mother about modesty in eating? No, it's not right. I don't think it's right for us to get out of the way. The facts are such, the facts are different and the facts are that laws such as these today, which are not least aligned with the opposition and the coalition, should be adopted without further discussion. I also really didn't want to hear from myself at this point, and I will absolutely support both of these amendments by Articles 25 and 26, because they are coordinated among all the parties in Parliament. I believe that the representative of nationality or minorities will also support this amendment or both amendments, so I hope that I will not need to advertise further. But it was true that I was lifted up by listening to Lithuanians about modesty in nutrition and, on the other hand, we are dealing seriously with poverty in Slovenian families.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u111	Can I help you? Do you have a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President. My procedural proposal will go this way, as the honourable colleague concluded the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that without a vote you vote on my procedural proposal with a gesture or whatever, that we conclude this debate today. We've done something good with this law. In this atmosphere, let us conclude this year’s work of the National Assembly. After all, we all have our children and our homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much for an extremely constructive proposal. Even so, the list is still open. I can't lock her up and I won't. I am opening the way for a debate, but here I welcome your proposal, Mr Horvath. Anybody else want to discuss this? The next one would be mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u114	Hello, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I will support the marriage and all the amendments for the children. I am pleased that a consensus has been made, but I must say from this place that I liked the proposal of the SDS Group, namely their proposal in article 14 of the law, more than the one in the government law in article 25. Why? Since this Article regulates the systemic issue, the government law does indeed regulate the financial years 2013 and 2014. Well, that's not the same. The financial years 2013 and 2014 and the school year differ. But I'm glad we got the consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja the Attack.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps I can only say that, as a young Member, I feel the difference between young Members, the thinking of young people and longer-term Members, because I did not talk about it or wanted to electrify the situation any more and so on. I don't know who this debate is intended for, then, to talk about hunger, about consumption, about the two fields we are talking about and so on. And it is not disputed that the amendment would not be supported. Thank God that we will make some circumstances easier for some children. I didn't expose lakota to make even more of a crease, but I did expose only cases, as you say, that children barely survive. I believe that some people are like that and that this system does, but we need to know that there are children on the other hand who are making a literal fool out of food. That's all I wanted here. And, Mr. Jew, I basically summed up this information in the same segment as I said that billions of people in the world are hungry, 7 billion, and probably should then have from [[....]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know, I don't have a specific reference, but I have 12, 7 and 1. So, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u117	Good. This is not a free debate between the two Members. Mrs. Attack, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u118	That's all I wanted, and I don't want it to look so uniformly at these things just because maybe I've exposed a little more provocative things. I didn't want to electrocute the atmosphere. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would return to the constructive spirit in which we started, and I would also express great satisfaction at what we have developed together, and that in the end all Members, the coalition and the opposition, will adopt a solution that, within given options, represents an optimal solution. I would also say that cooperation and negotiation have been very correct, very professional, and that is why today I am very upset that some people are misrepresenting the reasons for the situation in which we are in and out of the picture. In my opening talk, I made it very clear that we have two reasons why something was coming up, so that it was totally unnecessary. Let us conclude this debate with satisfaction that we have been able to achieve some good solution in dialogue, in anticipation, I will say, next year, that we will be able to achieve this in another area, which today appears to be total nonsense and we should have overcome it a long time ago. I'm referring to paragraph 143. And in my name, thank you very much to everyone I've worked with.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u122	Thank you. I consider Parliament a place of reasoned debate, so I think it is a call for us not to debate because we have homes and our own private lives, but inappropriate because we should not then go to the polls for such work. The argumented debate also requires evidence of what we claim. I can accept the thought of my colleague's assault on modesty, and there she gave some very interesting starting point to measure modesty by whether or not you recognize the framework. Well, now I'm going to come to that law in 2008, which was the Law on the Subsidization of Diagnostic Diet – colleague Attack, you certainly know the literature well and remember Don Quixote and who said that whoever leaned on a good tree would be covered by a good shadow. You just leaned on a bad source of information that told you that when the law was passed, the debaters voted against it. That's not true, you know. On April 24, 2008, the 28th regular session was held and we voted on the Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet. This is the law we are now discussing. And there wasn't one vote against, one vote. It is true, however, that during that term we also passed some law on student food subsidies and that the outcome of the vote could have been somewhat different. But now I would like to tell you why the adoption of the law in 2008 was carried out with very clear antagonisms; because this was a pre-election period because in the 2009 budget there was no provision for an increase in the amount of subsidised diocese diet, because the implementation of the law was linked to mandatory warm meal distributors because penalties were provided for those schools that would not have introduced a hot meal and could have told you a lot more. The things that were then improved by the law in 2010 were many. Among other things, it was no longer prescribed that a meal should be warm, but there was talk of a healthy meal. And now I could develop a whole theory of healthy nutrition, and I won't. But it is also the case that, at the time, there was also a report by the Court of Auditors, which identified the inequities in the management of public funds intended for subsidisation. In fact, there was a lot of food left unsplit, and food did not always find room in the stomachs, but elsewhere. But look, this law that we're talking about right now is not a law that solves the problem of pressured and food-oriented young people, but is a law that speaks about those who actually lack food, let alone enough healthy food. And we're solving this problem with this law. In fact, it was not our intention to take on a prestigious position, but to arrange what we thought needed to be settled, and the government or the ministry did not at the right time show enough attention. I can tell you that you will see how we did that already on the 2008 budget, then also on the 2009 budget, Members and Members of Parliament have tabled amendments for school meals, and the then coalition has not accepted them. During that time, the Programme Apple for Health also expired. The European Union has allocated resources for healthy nutrition. I have also achieved that, according to the Austrian example, we have begun to take more flexible public procurement and to allow for integrated and organic food to be ordered. And there's a lot more to say. This then continued in a healthy breakfast and more. I can also say because I have written both amendments, Dr. Slavko Gaber and I have tabled amendments for school meals. Here, if you wanted to tell yourself what was offered and not accepted, it would be a long story. For many, I believe the goal is most important, but for me, the path is as important as it is for Cankar. There must be no lies and misdirection on this path, and this is important. When we talk about these things, I believe that you are excited about what has turned out to be today, that the amendment has received universal support and that it will also be given by law. However, this makes it unacceptable to forget what business provisions are, how laws are adopted, what respect for the procedure must be, and in particular not to be misled when it comes to how someone has voted and tried to disqualify them. In any case, once again, it is not only an objective, because they say that it devotes resources to the objective, but it is necessary to maintain understanding and respect the arguments when we go towards that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. At the same time, I would just say that Mr Horvat's proposal, which has also been joined by Dr Črnak Meglič, was absolutely not taken as a restriction on the possibility of discussion, but as one very constructive and well-meaning proposal. Of course, we respect the Rules of Procedure. We still have time to discuss this. I suggest we move on to the following article 26, and ask if anyone wants to discuss it? Is there anyone else who wants a debate on the 25th? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I think there's some unnecessary circus from regulating this area of work. I think that there have been many opportunities in the history of Parliament, in which I am participating alone, that is, since 2000 onwards, for these things to be handled better or otherwise, as they have been regulated until then. We haven't been the largest coalition party for a long time, very little time, but all this time, when we were working in Parliament, we've put in some of the laws of both students and students. The law on improving student diet, on subsidising student diet we filed in 2003 and was rejected, and it regulated student diet better than the law in force at that time. The coalition of the week rejected him smoothly, and some Members of Parliament are here as well. Even in 2008, when I first signed the Law on Diagnostic Nutrition, there were many very strange debates. Some MEPs, who are now pouring ashes, then verbally attacked this approach, and then for the first time in history the diocese diet was regulated by law. Until then, the diet of the diaphragm was completely out of order, and it was gone — except for twenty minutes or half a day’s rest. And at the time, I was having a major seizure, so you can look at the magnetograms. Some of you had a lot to say about this bill at the time, including Mrs Žgajner Tavš and Mrs Potrata and some of the other Members who are sitting here today. I was accused of giving candy, of giving candy, of not having it, of not being the other, of not being the third. Then, with that law, which was then passed in April and introduced far ahead of the electoral time in February – it was also adopted much earlier because it was enacted on September 1st – there were very many unpleasant debates, very many unpleasant debates and attacks with all possible and impossible reasons. This was a well-meaning law, which was the first time that high school nutrition was regulated in this country. For the first time, to ensure room for a warm meal and so on. By 2008, the secondary population was the only one with a mandatory programme of six or seven hours a day because they had a six-hour school programme, additional activities of interest, many of them were drivers and were thus absent for ten hours or more from home, without a guaranteed hot meal or even a meal. I don't think that's necessary. The Act, which was later adopted by the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, also intervened in this part. Again, he was in the previous mandate and intervened and made the situation worse in this area. Today, when you say that, problems are about effective use of a student's meal – it is at 80%. And you don't eat everything every time you go to the cafeteria, which is actually logical. But it was an attempt that forced the government, the government of the week, and then the next government to even deal with the problem. Clearly, the first time you handle a matter, you can't prescribe it and arrange it perfectly because you can't predict all the causes, you can't predict all the consequences. You try and prepare in a dimension that you can control and know. All these things can certainly be improved. I think it might even be best for this country, as well as the greatest simplification, if we put in place the status benefits; the one who is a primary school has the basic school, the one who is a student, as a student, as a student. And that's how it was done. That's how that marriage was made. But there came a government that preferred to standardize the area and put these things back in some classes — that is the problem. At school, we probably have an employee of some uneducated employee just to keep records. And those employees, mostly after these schools, are more expensive or more of a problem than if they were to settle it on a status basis. Well, let's make sure that one goes under some conditions. Now, we're very specialists to do some tables, classes, calculations, and in fact none of the data is true. Who guarantees the data used for the doses? Half the data doesn't hold. For those of you who are in the public service, you have about a point of view, and for those who are employed elsewhere, in other ways, you do not hold data. We deal with some quasi records, some quasi programs and so on. I think it would be the best arrangement for things to be settled according to their status; if you're a high school student, you belong, if you use it, you'll benefit, if you don't, you won't. Similarly, we tried to arrange for the transport of apprentices, students and students. Mr Kavtičnik probably knows this, which was then a Member, and some, and it didn't work. It was something right away. At that time we predicted 70% relief for transport in that law, and then we stretched from 17 to 70 to some classes – conversion, essentially the administration itself – and there was no effect. Something similar, and above all significantly better, has been introduced in this mandate as regards the transport of students and students. Much better. What has been regulated to the ZUJF or until the blocking of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. These are the appropriate solutions that people use, that have some effect, that have some goal in the end. Today, there is significantly less traffic on tickets to Ljubljana, because it is a cheap school liner transport, as it was before September 1st. These funds given by the State for various purposes are subsidising line transport in one way or another, and I do not know who else, we have to use for some positive way out of this, and this has been done in transport and something similar should be done here. When we eat, we save a situation that just happened. Poverty cannot be only in the period when Janez Janša is Prime Minister of the Government, it is said in the 2004-2008 mandate when we heard it, and this year when this Government is. No one opened a debate on poverty within the mandate of the previous government. Nobody! At that time, the largest companies went bankrupt and far the most people to the Employment Institute. They went up and went up by 100%, but there were no discussions, there was no emotion in the debates on this, and at the same time laws were passed that made these social transfers significantly worse. It was no longer possible to have children’s allowances and scholarships at the same time — either one or the other — until then it was all possible and so forth. I think that, within the scope of this possibility, it is necessary to regulate and help as much as possible. I think this step that's been taken is a good one. This was not just because it was a budget item. This must be clear to us because it is a law that regulates some things differently, regulates better, also in relation to other laws. It's not just some amendment and a million of them now, but it's about another way of regulating the system. I am pleased that in this National Assembly there is sufficient wisdom for these amendments to be supported and also by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, here's the mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u126	Very briefly, Comrade Tanko. I also supported your student diet law in 2008. Conscientiously supported. It is true, however, that at that time I expressed certain concerns which subsequently proved to be very well-founded in practice. But still, I supported the marriage because then I thought it was good. Better than then the current state of affairs. But it is true — and I will tell you that, and I didn't want to mention it and open it. When the opposition proposal for the regulation of primary school food subsidies was on the table, you closed the way in the first reading of the law in order to further improve the procedure and perhaps once live in practice. And you said no to that at the time, you, the then government coalition. And if you don't mind, even with this amendment to Article 25, I will support this amendment. Of course, the idea is that the law is written for the 2013-2014 budget period, and the school year does not end on 31 December 2014, so that it is likely that the law will have to be amended after a certain amendment of the law and that what we will adopt today will be adopted in Article 25.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss article 25 of the amendment tabled? No wish. If there is no wish, we are moving to a debate, which is also to Article 26, the amendment of the coalition and opposition parliamentary groups, namely SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS, NSI, PS and SD, has also been tabled. Anybody want to talk? I don't see a desire for further discussion. We are moving on to another amendment tabled to Article 30, which has been tabled by SDS, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I see no one wants to discuss it anymore. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote today in 15 minutes or at 3:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u128	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. Please check for voting devices. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Balance sheet Financial Claims and Investment Account and the Finance Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Diane Jedhan. On behalf of the delegation? In your name, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u129	President, thank you very much. I will vote against it, even though this morning when I came to the National Assembly, it is my intention to vote in favour. I agree that it is very justified that we also help ensure the existence of jobs through the budget, I am talking about the situation of Cimos. If the Minister, at my call, was quite simple; if the Court of Auditors found that you had illegally charged the state budget for EUR 320 million, if you had made it very clear that you would withdraw immediately – in this case, of course, I would have voted in favour of such a budget. The way the minister left the hall, he didn't answer, so I'm not giving some money to the minister. I'm against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-28-SDZ6-Izredna-25.ana.u130	We are voting on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 27. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing has also been adopted. And we are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 46 votes against 29. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing and are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a rebalancing. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the balance sheet of the Financial Claims and Investment Account and the Funding Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the bill on school diet. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled today. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Social Democrats, National Gazette, Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS, Positive Slovenia and New Slovenia – that is, all parliamentary groups except national communities. This is an amendment to Article 25. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 79 votes in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of all parliamentary groups to Article 26. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 79 votes in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS to Article 30. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present, no one has corrupted the idyllic, and all 79 have voted for them. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I take it that, in the second reading, the National Assembly has adopted the amendments to Articles 25, 26 and 30 and I ask qualified applicants whether anyone intends to table an amendment to any of the open third-reading articles? Nobody. So we are moving on to the third reading of the bill because no amendments have been tabled. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law is not harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, all 79 voted against. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been passed and that we have finished well in 2012. However, we still have a conclusion to the legislative procedure for the proposal of a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on School Food, a simplified procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members is not suitable for further consideration. We need to take this decision formally. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this item of the agenda, and I am also concluding one of the last meetings of the National Assembly this year and I wish you all the best in 2013 and that as many decisions as possible will be taken as we are today in this last law.
